ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u2	I assume that there are no comments on the draft agenda that you have received. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] No observation? [[No]] Then the agenda is accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 March 2020, I propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the proposal for a law (Ms Meryame Kitir) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with a view to reducing the rate of personal tax applicable to temporary unemployment benefits from 1 March 2020, No 1114/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u4	I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the bill (MM. Egbert Lachaert, Kristof Calvo, Peter De Roover and François De Smet, Catherine Fonck, Georges Gilkinet, Meryame Kitir and MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf and Servais Verherstraeten) authorizing the King to grant a state guarantee for certain loans in the fight against the consequences of coronavirus and amending the Act of 25 April 2014 relating to the status and control of credit institutions and stock exchange companies, No. 1108/1. I also propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: the bill (Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mr Kristof Calvo, Peter De Roover and François De Smet, Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Mme Meryame Kitrir and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Servais Verherstraeten) authorising the King to provide a State guarantee for certain credits in the fight against the effects of the coronavirus and amending the law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies, No. 1108/1. The Committee on Finance and the Budget is therefore given an exceptional opportunity, and I would like to stress that this is an exceptional opportunity to meet at 2.30 p.m., in parallel with this plenary session. I also assume that this demonstrates the urgency attached to this proposal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the vote that may take place today on the proposal for special powers. I would stress that the granting of special powers is an exceptional thing in a parliamentary democracy. It is therefore important for Parliament to be able to set up an effective control committee to check whether the decisions taken by the government do fit within the framework of powers conferred on the government. One can't do without the other. On the one hand, the urgency requires that these special powers be granted, on the other hand, an adequate parliamentary body as a counterweight is necessary. Hence the proposal to set up a standing committee with 17 members, of course with a limited duration. I would ask you to pass on the names of your Commissioners for that committee to the Registry so that the committee can be set up at the end of the plenary session. I also assume that this committee will meet next week. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u6	The Prime Minister, Mrs Wilmès, is present, but she also has European commitments in the course of this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u7	I suggest everyone just sit on their couch, both the questioners and the members of the government. You will also notice that I have set myself a little higher than usual on a Thursday afternoon. That has to do with security considerations, Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u8	Mrs Wilmès, Madam Prime Minister, as much as I would like, the Flemish interest does not share in the praise you are being given for your approach to the corona crisis. In fact, I think it is inappropriate for some Members in the hemisphere to be used as applause machines. Praise is misplaced because there are 220 deaths on the counter today, 6,000 infections and 10% of them on intensive care. Now we need leaders worthy of leadership, leaders worthy of words and deeds, but your words are not worth much, Mrs Wilmès. You promised in this hemisphere that anyone who would cooperate in measures to contain the corona virus would be invited to discuss the powers of attorney, but you'd rather do so behind closed doors, with 10 parties, not with 11. You prefer to keep playing political games. How heartless can you be? Is it so difficult to imagine that we of Flemish Interest also have relatives who are on the frontline to dive the corona virus? Is it so hard to imagine that we also have parents and grandparents who are now sitting alone somewhere and may be infected? Your words are not only worthless, but your deeds are worthless. While the medical staff begged for mouth masks, you communicated that mouth masks do not make sense, so much later to order mouth masks, although not with the preferred Turkish Open Vld friend. While the people asked for the borders to be controlled, you communicated that there was absolutely no point in controlling borders, that it should be done quickly a few days later, albeit by the police and not by the army, which was trained to do so. While specialists beg to test the population for contagion by corona, you communicate that tests are not necessary and do not make sense. Madam Prime Minister, for the Flemish interest, testing makes sense. So my question is quite clear: when will you work on more tests so that we can test whether or not the population has corona, because today there are a lot of people at home who do not even know if they are infected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Belgium, many specialists believe that this crisis is also being tackled in a good way. This crisis is unseen. It is a global crisis that affects all continents and has enormous consequences in terms of public health and the economy. The numbers today: 1,200 additional infections at 24 hours. That's a double. So we have not yet reached the end of this story. It will call for our common solidarity to combat this epidemic and enable our health care system to do so. After that, we also need to look at the socio-economic impact this will have. I don't think people get out of this by throwing all kinds of political reproaches at each other. I think only humility is in place here, humbly working, every day, on what we can do. That's what the ministers do. I also think that we should show solidarity at different levels. The people who lose their jobs today must be compensated and helped. The people who have to stop their business must be helped to bridge that. However, solidarity also means that anyone who can do his best to help and ensure that our economy can continue to work, is also supported and helped. I am thinking of the people at the cash register in the supermarket, the people in the care sector, the paramedics, the people in the logistics. In this respect, a good balance must be struck between all the measures that we are well-intentioned to support people and to continue to support and help the people who work. My question to the government and to the Prime Minister is how can we ensure that there is a just balance between the two? How do we ensure that our solidarity system is maintained, and that it is not abused and that it feels fair to those in our country who are doing all they can to maintain our economy and the essential tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u10	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, today the state is subsidising around 3 million people. There are currently 1,075 million temporary unemployed and 391 000 classic unemployed. This number grows every day. The fear of the virus and the fact that it is sometimes more rewarding to be temporarily unemployed than to work puts pressure on certain vital sectors of the economy. The food industry is complaining. If we know that the average net monthly wage is EUR 1,600, which is EUR 3,500 gross, but that is another debate, then it is clear that these people can often earn more by not going to work today. In South West Flanders there is already a shortage of 15,000 farm workers. The food industry is extremely important. Mr President, I have seen that you have divided the questions by minister, but I would like to ask the second part of my question anyway. What will you do with the control? You have used fine words with regard to the banks and the 50 billion guarantees that would have been given. We are one week away and we are already seeing the opposite. Contrary to your fine words that the guarantees would continue, we see that the credit insurance companies are reducing the guarantees today. I have examples of this. That is a very serious threat to our economy. Madam Prime Minister, I have the following questions. They are fine words, but what control will you exercise over these powerful institutions? What will you do to keep our economy running?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u11	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, there is much to be said about crisis management in recent weeks. But there is much more urgency: we have to fight for the VOCID-19 speed. I have four strong requests that I want to relay. The first request is for rapid, massive screening. Test, isolate, test contacts, isolate positive people. This will, of course, be essential when we get out of confinement, but it is already so today. Indeed, people are particularly fragile and, without wanting to do so, become vectors of the virus. This is particularly the case for patients, residents in nursing homes and caregivers at home, in nursing homes and in any type of institution. Asymptomatic soldiers are being tested, which I can understand. But I find it shocking that caregivers who are at the front can only be tested if they have severe symptoms. The second request is to build up much faster than you do from the stock of equipment. This is not only about masks, but also about gloves, protective clothing, medicines. It's not five to six million masks we need, it's hundreds of millions. Last week, I begged you, Madam Prime Minister, not to forget any carers on the occasion of the distribution of the masks. The reality is quite different. Even today, so-called home nurses with 99 per cent reliable lists have been left behind. Physiotherapists, pharmacists, psychiatric hospitals, caregivers are still not on the mask lists. Prime Minister, check these elements and, above all, don't forget any caregivers! The third demand is to anticipate at European level in order to avoid uncoordinated containment exits and the risk of a rebound of the epidemic. The fourth request relates to the socio-economic plan. A whole series of measures have been taken at this level and we support them. But they need to be refined taking into account information from the ground. We have sent you numerous requests in this regard. There are situations today that are not covered and yet should be covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, you know that you can count on the constructive attitude of our party to take urgent and necessary decisions today in order to overcome the corona virus. In this sense, we have reached out to you and asked you to meet with us. After all, it is a pity that you just pushed us aside. We have still not received an answer. However, we hope that in the coming days we will be able to present some constructive proposals from the PVDA explaining what we consider necessary to combat the corona virus. However, one dossier is very close to my heart, because the situation is getting worse and worse. We have heard today that 42 more people have died as a result of the virus. It is therefore clear time for the government to take measures to send fewer people to work. I can't understand why today someone like Jan Jambon is suggesting that people have to go back to work. That way, the virus just gets passed on to everyone. People should have the right to stay at home. Madam Prime Minister, we have made a calculation. You have a list of non-essential and essential sectors. Colleagues, do you know how many of the 3 million employees are employed by the government's decision in key sectors? It accounts for 2 million out of 3 million employees. Two-thirds of the workers should go to work. Two thirds of employees are not obliged to apply social discrimination in companies. That's just what the government's action says. Madam Prime Minister, you can't. In the construction sector, workers must be able to stop. Truck drivers carrying non-essential goods must be able to stop. In the chemical companies that produce plastic chairs, one must be able to stop. Why do plastic chairs need to be produced today? Can somebody explain that to me? There's no need for plastic chairs right now. So just leave the employees at home. Don't let them spread the virus. Madam Prime Minister, my question is quite clear. You have finished a royal decision that decides that the production of weapons is still being approved today as an essential sector. Colleagues, why would the production of weapons in the current crisis be an essential sector? Madam Prime Minister, it is not time to restrict the list and leave all workers, especially workers, who cannot work at home, and (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, more and more experts are asking for more tests to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The World Health Organisation has also asked for every suspicious case to be tested and isolated, as well as for its contacts to be traced. This is the only way to level the curve and control the influx of sick people. At the same time, testing becomes more difficult because there is a shortage of test material. We now learn that the test capacity will increase from 2,000 to 10,000 tests a day. At the same time, it is indicated that only those with previously severe symptoms will still be tested, while people with little or no symptoms can also be contagious. A new, rapid antigen test has now been approved, which is correct in 70% of the cases, but it is still claimed that it is only intended to be used for those showing severe symptoms. Another type of test detects antibodies and can determine whether someone has developed immunity or not. These tests are becoming increasingly accurate, but have recently been banned through a KB for a period of six months. Finally, we are told that people who die at home or in a rest home on COVID-19 are not included in the statistics, which has distorted the image in Belgium. Madam Prime Minister, how quickly will the capacity of PCR tests be increased to 10,000 tests a day? How will we ensure that there are sufficient erasers and reagents? Will we also test those who show less severe symptoms? What role will the new antigen test play? Will it generally be used in all triage centers? Will it play a role in relaxing the test criteria, which will result in more people being tested? Why did the antibody tests be banned? Wasn't it better to investigate which tests were reliable and use them to first test the care providers for immunity? Finally, why aren't samples already being taken from people who die outside a hospital so that they can be preserved and subsequently examined for the possible presence of COOVID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first give a general answer. My colleagues will then have the opportunity to respond more specifically. I do not want to spend too much time on the wrong information that a particular Member has just given here, otherwise my speaking time would be up quickly. So I will confine myself to the real questions that have been asked here. As always, I would like to begin by recognising the great importance of the work carried out by the healthcare professionals. Their devotion forces respect throughout the country. Thanks. I know I say this every time, but it is very important to underline this. I certainly don't forget the people who help keep our country running. They work for our safety, they help us move and they make sure we have food and basics. We are grateful to them for that. I assure them and all those I have not mentioned here that we know what they are doing for our country and that we are very grateful to them for that. Today, 6,235 people have been confirmed as carriers of VOCID-19 and 2,652 people are hospitalized, 605 of whom are in intensive care. We deplore 220 deaths to date. 675 people were lucky enough to leave the hospital. We expected it, the pandemic is hitting our country. We know we haven't reached the peak yet, it's a reality. All the health resources in our country are organized to deal with the situation. It is continuously monitored by scientific experts, by Sciensano, by the government and by all the authorities of the country, regardless of the level of power. We want hospitals and their staff to be able to concentrate exclusively on their patients and to take care of them in the best possible conditions, that is obvious. The issue of the supply and availability of medical devices is crucial and it has been at the heart of the debate over the past few days, through the mask file. It is also true that this issue cannot be reduced to this aspect, it also concerns personal protective equipment, medical equipment such as respirators or medicines. This weekend, we entrusted Minister De Backer, in consultation with all members of the government, with the management and procurement of stocks. He is fully committed to it and has made it his sole and sole priority of work. He has already reorganized the work according to the objectives to be achieved and he has done so by continuing to work on the supply of medical equipment in a market that is totally disrupted, with widespread shortages. This is part of the context in which we are working, we must not forget it. When there are shortages and when you receive masks, there are priority recipients. This does not mean that others will not receive it afterwards. These priority recipients are appointed on the advice of the Risk Management Group, experts and scientists. As far as testing is concerned, on Sunday, 22 March, we passed on to the Council of Ministers an upward conversion plan to increase the capacity of this testing using external public and private laboratories. The objective is obviously to significantly increase our testing capabilities in as little time as possible. It is clear that, like other aspects of the crisis, we will work on a priority basis on the basis of the recommendations of the scientists. Health is, of course, a priority, but we cannot ignore the serious socio-economic consequences of the crisis. Today's economic unrest becomes tomorrow's social unrest. There are a lot of jobs involved. A series of measures were adopted at the Ministerial Council on 20 March to address the socio-economic consequences of COOVID-19. They are part of the second package of measures of the federal plan for social and economic protection. They reinforce the measures adopted on 6 March this year and are based on three pillars. These are measures to ensure the purchasing power of workers, measures directly supporting the self-employed and measures to support companies in these difficult times. Sector-specific provisions have also been adopted. I can assure you that every sector will be listened to with the greatest possible attention and that the government will mobilise all its forces to respond as accurately as possible. I would also like to thank everyone for that. You also know that Minister De Croo is also working on a bank guarantee mechanism that will ensure that, in the current circumstances, banks remain able to help firms and self-employed people in difficulty. This project is being discussed today in this House. You will notice that people's health remains our first priority. The corona crisis requires us to work on different fronts at the same time, in coordination with all levels of government and, of course, always controlled by Parliament. There was also a specific question about the key sectors. We have taken a number of measures, first and foremost to protect the health of our people, but it is true that a large part of them involved work. After all, our people have worked so far. The first objective is above all to enable people to work in the best conditions. We ask that these rules, however strict they may be, be fully respected. If they are not strictly respected, companies will be faced not only with a fine, but also with closure. It is a legal and moral obligation. We are very attentive to that. With regard to crucial sectors, it is true that this obligation cannot be applied in a linear manner because care workers cannot be asked to keep safe distances. However, it is not because the rule is not completely mandatory that it can be set aside. The rule remains that when you are able to organize social distancing for your workers, even if you are in the crucial sectors, you must do so. And if that's not clear enough, Mr. Hedebouw, we'll clarify it Friday. We have said it once, we have said it five times, we have said it ten times: the health of our citizens and workers first! As such, I would also like to add this. There are a lot of experts in the field of work, particularly in the key sectors. I have invited the Group of 10, i.e. the social partners, today to consult with the Crisis Centre before tomorrow's meeting to refine the list. What we absolutely want to avoid is that sectors should not be included in the list, whereas they should, and vice versa, be included in the list. As a result, they would benefit from more flexible rules, while they do not need them. This rigour in compliance with the rules is valid for everyone, without any exception: for companies as well as for workers. We will surround ourselves with the social partners to ensure that this is the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, I have given you plenty of time to answer, because I think the moment is important enough to give you that time. Mr van Grieken, I see that you are asking for the floor. However, you will be the first to be asked about the replies. I now give you the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u16	Mr President, what I want to present to you now has nothing to do with my reply. You're just being offended here. The Prime Minister says she will not spend time answering questions from one party. Mr President, either you are President of the whole hemisphere and you instruct the government to answer all the questions, or you walk by the hand of the government, and then you are the architect of this government. I don't think this is a way to work. The few words of Dutch spoken to me by the Prime Minister were that she did not want to spend time answering the questions of the person on the banks behind her. You can't do that, Mr President. The same Prime Minister's gonna be asking for powers of attorney. We cannot ask questions about these powers of attorney either. I don't think that's serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u17	Mr van Grieken, for the record, you are asking the questions you wish to ask, the Prime Minister is answering and you are replicating. You don't have to involve me in that personally. I'm applying the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister has given an answer. If that answer does not satisfy you, you will make that clear in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u18	Mr President, it was not an answer. The Prime Minister merely said that she would not spend her time answering my questions. Mr President, either you intervene, or you confirm that there are A and B Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u19	The Prime Minister wishes to correct this himself. You will then have time for the rest of your reply. Madam Prime Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u20	Mr President, with all due respect, I did not say that. I did say that things were raised in the question that were not correct at all, that were wrong, and that I will not use my speaking time to correct them, but that I will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u21	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. Mr Van Grieken, you may now continue your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u22	Mr President, my question concerned the need for massive testing. That's one of the questions I asked. In South Korea they have tested the population massively. If one is not infected, one can proceed with his work. Gentlemen and ladies who are concerned about the economy, one can continue one's job. If one is infected, one must be quarantined. Then the people in quarantine should be given good protection: mouth masks, material. The government has done absolutely nothing about this. There is a lack of mouth masks, a lack of reliable procurement, a lack of testing, a lack of screening at airports, a lack of proper communication. My dear friends, this corona crisis is greater than the Dutroux case, greater than the dioxin crisis. Then we set up a committee of inquiry to keep all these flaws under review. I think it is high time we also set up a committee of inquiry for this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u23	Mr President, in this fight, I think we should leave it to the experts, rather than populism, to decide what measures we need in our country. I know that mouth masks provide a piece of security, but there's also a lot of populist bullshit about it, because it protects especially those who face someone with a mouth mask, but not the person themselves. I'll leave that to the experts. There are many socio-economic consequences of this crisis, in addition to the health care crisis. We take good care of a number of people: people who lost their jobs, people who had to close their cases. However, there are also people who fall between the loopholes, people who have an independent business but have no orders and no turnover. They still feel a little upset. There are also the people who work further: the cashiers, the ambulances, the people who do logistics work. I would like to call on the government to ensure that these people feel that they are being treated fairly against those who stay at home and enjoy certain things. We must ensure that those who work do not feel disadvantaged against those who do not work. I have the impression that the feeling is growing among the people who are in the line of fire that some people are walking away from it. I want those who uphold our country and do essential things to be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u24	Mr President, I can fully endorse Mr Lachaert's analysis. Madam Prime Minister, the flou artistique must stop. It is now time to say clearly who can get to work and who can't. In the meantime, two more ministers have arrived here. I would therefore like to say here as the coastal mayor that there is a great deal of panic. After a hard winter we get this. We have campsites on the coast and 16,500 second stays. People who want to go to their second stay are not allowed to do so now. Campsites are closed and controlled by federal police. Then these camping bosses are called by Fedasil to say that they are going to accommodate asylum seekers. I do not want to start the debate on this now, I just want to say that we have to be clear to the people. The water is on the lips of these people today and they must now be given clear guidelines. It is an insult to those people if there are no clear and clear guidelines. Who can work has to work, who can work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u25	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The figures given each day are only the tip of the iceberg. You forget all those who are not tested, even those who, today, because they have not been tested, can die of VOCID-19 without being listed. The wave is in front of us. She's coming. We have to go faster, stronger, and more effective. The reality of the market does not explain everything. If it's medical equipment, we can buy it, but we can also produce it at home. We've been suggesting it for weeks. Reagents have been replicated internationally. We are lucky in Belgium to have tests without reagents. Yes, it is possible, and we can do so if there is a strong political will. Imagine, Madam Prime Minister, the situation of caregivers, patients and nursing homes. The reality has to be said. Asymptomatic soldiers are being tested and those I have quoted are not entitled to do so. It's a real problem. This is all the more important given that there are areas of fragility, and that confinement, which everyone is trying to apply, is only partial. I will end by supporting all those who are at the front and who make the country run, not only for the patients, but in general. Beyond words, frank support measures, acts must also be possible, in the form of bonuses or additional leave. In any case, I submit this point to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u26	Prime Minister, today we learned of the deaths of 42 people. More and more people are rightly concerned and ask me the question: "Why should we continue to work in our sectors?" Whether drivers with non-essential equipment in their trunks, construction, chemistry or chair production, the question arises. We are now learning that you are negotiating the possibility of continuing to produce for the arms sector. My message box explodes with e-mails from workers who ask me, "Why should we keep producing?" We have done a calculation to understand why we have so many testimonies. By the ministerial orders you have made, two out of three workers are in essential sectors. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that these are sectors which do not make teleworking compulsory and which cannot be closed. That is in your text, Madam Minister. You're telling me that you're aware that your ministerial order is not clear. He says that for two thirds of employees there is no obligation to apply social distancing. This is included in the ministerial decree, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard here, under pressure from the PTB and our revelation that two million out of three million employees are in key sectors, that the Prime Minister is committed to reviewing this list on Friday. We need to see it down again. We are on the rise of the spread of the virus. It is unacceptable to continue to get people to work in certain sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u27	Madam Prime Minister, doctors, nurses, hospital directors and volunteers have shown enormous flexibility, creativity and determination in recent weeks. We can say that they are there. It is now up to the government to ensure that they are fully committed to their care tasks. The government too must now show that it can be flexible, creative and decisive. We must fight to find and isolate more infected and contagious people. The type of test is less important, as long as it is reliable. We must ensure that people with milder symptoms are also mapped out. Only in this way can we drastically reduce the level of contamination and our caregivers can continue to take care of it. That's what the experts say, by the way. The detection of antibodies is now also important. Anyone who has antibodies is immune to COVID-19 and can get back to normal. This is important for care providers, but it is also important for people working in other sectors, such as childcare. This will enable us to ensure that our economy does not fall completely flat. We therefore urge that these tests be widely used as soon as possible. Finally, I wish everyone good courage, of course, especially the people in the first line. Our group will always be prepared to contribute constructively to the fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u28	Then we're done with the questions to the Prime Minister. Madam Prime Minister, you may, of course, remain in our midst, but you may also be in charge. I do not fall out of my role when I wish you much good courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u29	Minister, it has been said a few times: the corona virus has a major impact on business. Many companies have had to close the doors, others have changed their operation. They use modern technologies and promote teleworking or meetings via videoconference. Others have no choice: cashiers, garbage collectors and postmen simply continue to work. Justice is also affected by the virus: it will therefore have to adapt to fulfil its core task. Unfortunately, that is not easy, because the Justice Department is hopelessly behind in technology. Furthermore, procedural law is a blur and the infrastructure of the courthouses is often insufficient to guarantee the social distance for all employees. However, it is essential that justice continues to work as well as possible, because people working for justice have an essential profession. At the moment, there is already a great deal of delay in the judicial process, which is likely to increase further. We understand the circumstances, of course, but we cannot allow everything to be postponed. Solutions must therefore be found to ensure maximum progress, including all precautions for all those involved. We do not want scenes where everyone gathers in the room at the same time to wait for their trial and no overcrowded courtrooms, but we must continue to work and adapt. Of course, we understand the need for measures to be taken in prisons, but this must not lead to punishment being stopped. It is therefore not possible to suspend the execution of all new prison sentences at the moment. I therefore have the following question, Minister. The hospitals have doubled to provide additional capacity, but what will the Justice Department do to ensure the proper functioning and to maximise capacity utilisation? What will you do to manage justice and ensure justice? In my view, justice also has a key role to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, first of all, what is important for a Minister of Justice at the moment, is to come together with the actors, i.e. with the social partners of the prisons, with the colleges of magistrates and with the orders of lawyers and notaries, in order to maintain continuity as far as possible. All in all, the picture of Justice, which you have outlined, is the classic picture, namely that it does not yet work so well or is chaos. You will forgive me for hearing that in your first sentence. After five years of Ministry of Justice, that is not the main message to get from a former coalition partner. However, I can take that. As you know, nothing is more hard on such accusations than the Minister of Justice's job. However, I can tell you that until now we have been able to accommodate 4,500 simultaneous users in the judicial order in the field of electronic communications. That means 4,500 people can work remotely at the same time. We can also swallow 1,500 videoconferencing participants at the same time. Well, that's not so bad. That number of 1,500 isn't very small. Of course, the circumstances make this difficult. This is, moreover, always the case with colleagues and, I assume, also with political parties. We are all familiar with new means of communication, which we had not used so far. I've become a solid Zoomer myself, not to mention Teams. Having said that, it is important that I take a look at those sectors which have an interest. Excuse me, because I probably sound a little too optimistic, but there's no point in sounding pessimistic all the time. So let me deal with the various sectors. We now have three proxy decisions in preparation. One decision is entirely devoted to criminal law and tries to maintain the criminal justice system as well as possible. No deadlines will be postponed. No pre-trial detentions will be postponed either. Everything happens as in normal times, with as little physical contact as possible, as little physical sessions as possible and as little transportation of prisoners as possible. However, if necessary, this will be done. A second proxy decision will cover civil and administrative proceedings, extending the time limits for the duration of the corona crisis. In principle, that happens month by month. The hearings already planned may be held either in writing or by videoconferencing at the request of the court and the parties. They can also be postponed on a fixed date or referred to the role. The prisons are a third of my answer. In prisons, the prisoners who are no longer allowed to be visited are allowed a call credit of first EUR 20 and then another EUR 10 supplementary. Our penitentiary officers can use mouth masks in interventions. At present 70% of penitentiary staff are still employed. Three prisoners were infected; they were housed in the Saint John Hospital of the Bruges prison. We restrict the transports, as I said, as much as possible. We are also constantly consulting with the legal professions, in particular lawyers and notaries. They shall resort to electronic means of service, electronic communication and electronic laying down. We also try to use the authentic instruments and powers of attorney as much as possible in electronic form. We hope that this way, with these first power of attorney decisions...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u31	Mr. Secretary, I have to ask you to have some right of urgency. You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u32	Mr President, I would just like to show that justice is also trying to work. I would like to thank everyone for their cooperation in the justice sector and Mrs Van Vaerenbergh for her pertinent question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you do not like to hear the criticism, but I still think we should acknowledge that we are not quite there at Justice. I would like to express my positive opinion by saying that I think we should use these moments to make the transition to a modern justice system. Further use could be made of modern technologies, such as the video conference, both in criminal matters and in civil matters. The digital signature is still a pain point. Also, as you say, written procedures should be used. This will not only help us to tackle the current crisis, but I believe that justice will have to work more in this way in the future. At the moment, however, we must not tolerate the fact that everything is being postponed, which is happening in some rooms. Cases are postponed or postponed until September without a date. Nor do I think it is permissible for prison sentences to be suspended because of the current crisis. Justice is a core task and it must be carried out. All creative solutions are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u34	Minister, in times of crisis, whether national or international, we have always needed our law enforcement forces. Without police, no democracy. Without democracy, no rights. No more rights, no more obligations, it's anarchy. A crisis like the one we are going through requires decisions, authority, discernment, empathy, too, in accordance with the rules, all the more so as we know that these rules save lives. The inter-federal spokesman for the fight against coronavirus has assured again this morning, I quote, "that if the rules are applied half, it will take twice as much time to get out of it". We know what this means in terms of human lives. Containment is a complex, graduated and evolutionary measure. We have had to explain and have to explain many more times, as the Prime Minister pointed out. Avoid rallies, do not stop in public spaces, restrict its exits to the essential, keep a distancing of one meter fifty, be able to take air, do sport but under certain conditions. These are extremely important limitations to our individual freedoms, but indispensable to stem the spread of a virus that can affect us all, regardless of our age. In this situation, the work of the police officers is not simple. They are among those people who cannot be confined because they are the guardians of the application of new rules and the guarantee of the safety of our people. Their work is not simple. The police must manage, interpret derogations, work travel, cycling, walks. All these activities are very useful to everyone. The President of the CPPL, Nicholas Paelinck, was not mistaken when he said that some interventions were difficult in the context of the measures enacted. Minister, can you give us a report on the situation with respect to compliance? Have our police services seen any change in awareness and thus in compliance with the restrictions on assembly? Have any additional resources been made available for the federal police and for local police? What specific equipment have been delivered to police officers for their own protection against contagion? What is your information from the field on the conditions of intervention? Finally, consider yourself, considering the information of the services, that more detailed or additional guidelines should be sent to our police officers and to the public in order to further strengthen compliance with the containment measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u35	Mr President, Mr Pivin, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like first of all to express my sincere condolences to the families and relatives of those who died as a result of the VOCID-19 and also to express my support for the patients who are currently staying in our hospitals and who have to fight to survive. I would also like to acknowledge the continuing efforts of our front-line medical and paramedical staff and staff working in key sectors and support sectors. Through the National Security Council, which has been expanded to include ministers-presidents, our country has taken a series of social distancing measures – you mentioned them – including a ban on the gathering of more than two people. These measures are intended to limit contact between persons potentially carrying the virus. Most people respect these social distancing measures. However, part of the population did not understand that everyone must comply with distancing measures in order to achieve the desired goal. Unfortunately, many interventions still have to be made for rallies, private parties or catering establishments that do not comply with the rules. Those who fail to comply with the measures will be prosecuted and fined. The circular of the College of Attorneys General stipulates that an amicable settlement is provided for offenders, i.e. 250 euros for individuals and 750 euros for traders. A second offence may result in a direct summons to appear before the courts. I believe, Mr President, Mr Pivin, that I have responded in this way, knowing that the National Security Council will meet tomorrow and that the refinement of certain measures is not excluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u36	Mr.Minister, your answer is brief, but it reflects the government's response, which must be welcomed, to an evolving situation. This situation must obviously be adapted to the evolution of the pandemic. I also understand that pedagogy must continue in order for the population to become fully aware of this. In particular, I am thinking of young people who still feel a little too much outside the danger of this virus. Clear and comprehensive guidelines are needed, which are easy to follow and interpret. More generally, Minister, it is important to listen to the needs and demands of police officers. On behalf of the MR Group, I would like to thank them for their daily commitment. We must do everything we can to ensure that these men and women see as concretely as possible that we support them in this extremely delicate period of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u37	Madam Secretary, you finally want to test more? Congratulations. But why do you want to do that? A few weeks ago, you said that mass testing is pointless. What is it now, does it make sense or not? Or should we classify that statement by that other statement of yours, that wearing mouth masks makes no sense? It kind of makes me frown the eyebrows, because everywhere in the world where mouth masks are worn and tested massively, the virus gets under control. Two fine examples are Singapore and Hong Kong. Under pressure from the WHO, which has long stressed the importance of mass testing, you have said that more testing will now be carried out here. More, that's still not massive. On the website of Sciensano I read that only patients and caregivers with symptoms are still being tested. How do you intend to test more if there are still insufficient tests and reagents? Another issue that concerns me is the masks of the mouth. What's with the masks? Is there a shortage or not? Were they ordered and paid or not? What about 6 million mouth masks being destroyed, but not replaced? Madam Secretary, while all the sectors that are still trying to keep things straight in this crisis are begging for mouth masks and other protective equipment, you will find it necessary to play Russian roulette and place an order with one of your fellow party members with an obscure company. You say you have everything under control and that you are prepared, but what does that even mean for you? Did you forget that you had 6 million FFP2 masks destroyed and not replaced? The expiration date was exceeded. Was that really the reason? Why don't you tell us exactly what that means? Why the hell did those masks have to be destroyed if you weren't planning on replacing them anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u38	Madam Secretary, our care staff are doing a fantastic job today, in hospitals, in home care, in residential care centres. They are in the front line of the corona crisis with hard work. We are all very grateful for this hard work. We're playing white, we're applauding, we're hanging posters, you name it. That gratitude is beautiful, but not enough, because all these heroes also count on a strong government, a government that ensures that all these heroes can work safely, that they have enough mouth masks, that they have enough other protective equipment and that they do not have to worry about being infected themselves. Last week, the government set up a task force and 6 million mouth masks were delivered. That's good. However, we continue to hear disturbing reports about a lack of masks in home care, about care personnel who have to buy protective equipment themselves, about unclear guidelines, about a chaotic distribution of the material. I would therefore like to know from you how many more mouth masks there will be and when. I would like to see the state of play in that regard. Will the distribution be such that all caregivers are protected this time? The task force will increase the test capacity to 10,000 tests a day, I understand. I'd love to get the timing of that. From when does that amount of 10,000 apply? Who will be extra tested? What are the target groups? What role do the new quick tests play throughout the story? Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to return to a question which I asked you three weeks ago and which I did not receive an answer to at the time. How come those tests weren't sufficiently timely? How can it be that, when we saw the crisis coming at us for a few weeks, we did not have enough material to carry out the tests sufficiently well?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u39	Minister, we are in a complex situation and no one will argue that it is easy. This is not the time to analyse the shortcomings we have faced in recent weeks. In February, you maintained that hospitals were sufficiently equipped with masks and other devices and that there was no problem. But there are problems. To get out of this crisis, we need different things. First of all, a committed front-line staff and it is there: doctors, nurses, nurses, laborers, technical services and all the others, whether in hospitals or in other institutions. We must thank them again and again for their commitment and self-denial. But that's not enough! They need adequate and sufficient tools. However, we are faced with cascading shortages. The shortage of masks is still unresolved and presents a serious problem for health care teams, other front-line teams and the population. There is also a shortage of reagents and swabs for testing and I am passing. With regard to testing, systematic screening is a strategy that has been put in place in some countries with evidence-based results. This crisis costs us very much humanly, socially, economically and budgetaryly, but we absolutely have to get through it. The way to control it as quickly as possible is mass screening and systematic protection. Yet we are forced to note the lack of strategic vision in the face of this unprecedented health crisis. These measures are advanced in solutions there, shortages in shortage, and farfetched orders in insufficient deliveries without a comprehensive plan. Minister, when are you going to provide us with a comprehensive plan to deal with this pandemic and to get out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I naturally agree with colleagues, especially the Prime Minister and Mrs Jiroflée, who have already expressed their appreciation for the heroes of health care, who, day after day, give the best of themselves in difficult circumstances. However, I would like to draw your attention to another point. Madam Secretary, we do not want to leave anyone behind in this crisis. It is now clear that corona affects everyone, from the Crown Prince of Great Britain to teachers, cashiers and the financially weakest in our society. Corona does not take into account whether there is good hospitalisation insurance and whether there is anything left to pay the invoices at the end of the month. I'm worried about those financially vulnerable people today. I can't think about how they'll have to pay a peppered corona bill if they're not properly insured. After all, healthcare is not a luxury. Whether the invoice remains affordable depends on political choices. At the political level, you are making a lot of decisions now, and that is very good. You're releasing an extra billion dollars for the hospitals. So you give their breathing space to pay their staff, those heroes in the front line, at the end of the month. Why, however, do you not attach this additional funding to the condition that the corona invoice must remain affordable for everyone, with or without hospitalisation insurance? Why not link this additional funding to a unique test case, guaranteeing patients that the invoice will remain payable by temporarily abolishing supplements and the practice that certain benefits in kind cannot be reimbursed? It should not be forgotten that the people who are now in hospitals are not there of their own free will, but because it is vital. Those people do not always have good hospitalization insurance to ensure that the invoice is paid. Will you make sure that at the end of the ride those patients aren't presented with a sky-high corona invoice? Will you ensure that they can count on a safety net, which you can now provide via that extra billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u41	Madam Minister, I will do something very unusual, which is not often done in the hemisphere, because when one throws flowers here, often the flowerpots hang on to it. Anyway, I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for your approach and your commitment over the last few days. I think I speak on behalf of a lot of people, not just colleagues, but also people at home. You, and by extension our government, even if it is a government of powers of attorney, is doing well. I would almost ask for applause, but there are not enough people here for that. Even Mr Dedecker is positive, and that already has something to say. The applause is also intended for all those who are keeping our country running at the moment, and that is not just the people in the healthcare sector; there are so many that we are in danger of forgetting, such as cashiers, shopkeepers, garbage collectors, postmen and parcel delivery workers. I hope that they will be able to count on our gratitude and that someday they will be rewarded for it. After all, we are safe in our quarters while they are at work. I want to talk to you about the safe house in our house. For a lot of people, it's not that safe. That is often not the case when there is intra-family violence, but certainly now the problem is much bigger. People sit together all day, with children walking around. They don't have an outlet like sports, they can't go out to dinner or cry to the neighbor. That dangerous cocktail could cause an escalation of domestic violence. Many experts warn of this. That's what my question is about. I realize that you have a lot on your mind, but do you have any attention for this? Are you planning, for example, with your colleague No measures for rapid intervention by the Justice and Police Department? What about the escape houses? Are they prepared for quarantine? You have a heart for mental health care: it is not for nothing that you are the minister who is the first to pay back clinical psychology. Are there plans at the moment to provide assistance online in a safe way, so that tensions in the family situation can be removed and everyone can stay safe in their quarters?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u42	Madam Secretary, the whole country has been mobilized today to win the battle against the coronavirus. I'd like to testify to this on the premises. I am one of the 250 general practitioners, nurses and other health professionals who work in the 11 group practices of Medicine for the People of the PVDA. We are responsible for 25,000 patients and are on the premises every day. It is important to say that, because people do not expect words, but actions in this fight. Madam Secretary, I'd like to give you Sarah's testimony. She's one of my patients and her husband's sick. He probably has the corona virus and she's very scared. She has no symptoms, but works in a rest home every day. She goes to the rest home every day, but we can't test her. She is very afraid to infect the people there. Her anxiety is very normal, she needs to know if she's not passing on a corona. She is also concerned about the protective equipment, which is relatively limited. That's just one of the cases. Many people in the population are right to be alarmed. It shows that we must further improve the approach against the coronavirus. So far we have focused on social distancing, which is very important. However, the WHO has said that this is not the only measure. One also needs to know where the virus is. One has to test the people, isolate them if necessary and find out who they were in contact with. I've heard the test capacity is being increased. That's good news. On the basis of what vision, however, will you do so? Will you use the larger test capacity in an anarchist way? Or will you effectively focus on prevention, on contact tracing, as the WHO calls for? Will you see if, for example, the patient I was talking about is infected or not? If she is infected, will we isolate her contacts? Will we make effective use of this? This is, after all, a success formula in combating the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u43	Madam Secretary, I'd also like to start with a feather on the hat for our care system. There's no flowerpot on it; it's a plume. All the members of our government have already taken important measures, while health care workers are also working their asses off every day to combat the virus. However, as the World Health Organisation says, one does not win a football match just by defending it. A virus can't be fought without knowing who's infected. Contact tracing is therefore very important. For example, a hairdresser from my neighborhood has been infected all week, along with her husband, without any tests. Love also means sicknessing together these days. The known number of infections in our country is just the tip of the iceberg. We are currently sailing around quite blind, without knowing more details. The World Health Organisation is therefore asking for three things: testing, testing and testing. Countries such as Germany, South Korea, Singapore and Japan manage to carry out tens of thousands of tests every day. They track down sick people, who are then quickly isolated. That is the challenge we face today. It is therefore also good that our government will now increase the test capacity of the PCR tests from 2,000 to 10,000 per day, which is done in collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry, the labs and hospitals. It is also hopeful that since today the FAGG has approved the sale and distribution of a quick test, with which the result is known within 15 minutes. It is surprising, however, that Ghent University can take many tests from patients without established symptoms. How is that possible? In the case of scarce resources, we must avoid a bid between hospitals, screen them wisely and not in one hospital and test them in the other hospital. Today I have had contact with doctors from Gasthuisberg in Leuven, which showed that there will be a shortage of FFP2 masks, impenetrable aprons and gloves with cuffs in the future. Madam Minister, if the test capacity is increased, what target groups are envisaged? What about the shortage of reagents, an important raw material to test? How wide will the new rapid tests be rolled out? How do you deal with the acute shortage within a week of FFP2 masks and other material? How is it determined which hospitals receive how much material?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u44	Mr President, first of all I would like to have a special thought for all those women and men who are fighting every day to treat our people. There was talk of flowers and pots of flowers at this plenary session. I think those who deserve flowers are the heroines and heroes of the day who continue to care for our people. But they need much more than flowers, minister. They need to be properly equipped. For weeks, the hospital sector, nursing homes, the paramedical sector, general practitioners and nurses at home, to name but a few, have been shouting their dismay. They and they don't have enough masks to deal with the coronavirus crisis. These masks are essential protection to prevent contamination of caregivers themselves and thus prevent them from being able to provide care for the sick in the days and weeks to come. The same applies to protective coats that are sorely lacking in many hospitals. At H1N1, a strategic stock of FFP2 masks had been formed. It is these masks that need to be used by caregivers to avoid contamination. Meanwhile, these masks had to be destroyed because they had arrived on their expiry date. And you did not, Madam Minister, take care to rebuild this strategic stock. And that when, on 6 February – more than a month and a half ago – and when we had a case of VOCID-19 in our territory, the experts of the crisis management group told you of their concern about this situation. Minister, why didn't you rebuild this strategic stock in time? At least as soon as the experts warn. Why didn't you reinject the destroyed masks into the circuit before they came to an end? Can you tell us how many surgical masks, and especially how many FFP2 masks have been received by our country to date? How much more should happen and can be distributed to actors in the field? Can you now assure each stakeholder that they will be able to work with the protective equipment needed in the future? Could we also have a key to the distribution of these masks? Finally, Mr. President, I have contacted the services of the Governor of the province of Hainaut, as well as many cities and municipalities. They report, and regret, that the listings provided by INAMI are completely obsolete. They're not up to date. There are dead persons in these lists, Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u45	Respect the two-minute speaking time! You've been over three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, what does the WHO say about this pandemic? She orders to test, test and test again. This is not the path our country has chosen. Among those who have done so, the results are undeniable: the progression of the disease is lower, while the mortality rate is much lower than in other countries. In Belgium, the tests were limited to hospitalized patients and caregivers with symptoms. To date, approximately 30,000 tests have been conducted. So we are far from systematic screening. However, it is undeniable: intensifying screening allows us to better measure the evolution of this disease, but also to isolate and thus prevent carriers of the virus who do not know to contaminate other people. However, at the moment, how many workers are performing essential benefits without knowing whether they are alongside someone (e.g. a colleague) who would be infected? For the PS, it is out of the question of putting them in danger and, much less, of doing so for economic considerations – as we can sometimes hear. Minister, are you going to increase our diagnostic capacity? How many additional screening tests are you considering and, above all, when? Is there a more extensive tracing of contacts planned? How can we address the shortage of reagents and equipment – such as the announced shortage of swabs? Can new diagnostic methods – like the one developed by the University of Namur – be implemented, and within what time frame? Can rapid tests – such as those developed in Gembloux by Coris BioConcept – be used safely? Finally, do you confirm the ban on working in non-essential activities? If so, will this decision be upheld? In particular, I would like to mention the services securities and construction sectors, which some would like to see again in operation, although the workers perform their tasks under conditions of proximity. That is why I would like a health response, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u47	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Rohonyi. Since the questions were addressed to Ms De Block and Mr. De Backer, the two ministers will respond by mutual agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, citizens are not equal in the face of this VOCID-19. Next to those who are confined, there are others, those who are forced to go to work. They can't do telework. They have to go to the front every day to treat us, to feed us, to keep our children, to pick up the garbage, to ensure our safety. Their testimonies all go in the same direction, namely that when they go to work, they go there fear in the belly, with this very unpleasant impression of having finally become cannon flesh. But they still go because they have a sense of responsibility, a sense of duty. What they're asking you, ladies and gentlemen, is to be tested and automatically locked in in case of a positive test. It is true, Mr Minister, that you have announced your willingness to carry out massive screening tests at a rate of 10,000 tests a day. This is obviously an excellent thing. At present, however, we have to make sure that we can operate these tests as quickly as possible and, at the same time, we will have to develop the antibody tests, so that we can, as soon as possible, get the immune people back to work. The second thing these workers are asking you, Minister, is protective equipment. As my colleague mentioned yesterday, the home nurses informed us that many of them were unable to receive the masks promised to them, because they were not included in lists of providers which are completely obsolete. Minister, how and at what rate will these screening tests take place? What professions are targeted, given that the Prime Minister referred to an order of priority? How many tests per Region? When can immunity tests be finalized and how does the state currently support scientific research in relation to this? When will all health-care workers be provided with adequate protective equipment in an effective manner and without fear of a new shortage? Is a permanent assessment of the needs in line with orders and stocks guaranteed today? Finally, I would like to address my last question specifically to the minister. Is an update of the cadastre for home nurses on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u49	That gives us about ten questions. I therefore give the two ministers about ten minutes to respond. They will share their speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions. We're probably in the middle of this corona infection. Together with all the ministers of the federal government, but also with the ministers of health of the Communities and the Regions, we are fighting the battle. It has been said here, the impact is enormous, not just on our health care, but in our whole way of life. Our daily lives are being tossed. It may be said, everyone folds double. First of all, our caregivers, who are day and night to care for patients and to assist them with advice. But also tens of thousands of people in other sectors. Think of shop staff, train, tram and bus drivers, staff of the essential public services, garbage collectors, and you name it. These are people who provide essential support services. Otherwise, the hospitals wouldn't be able to move on. I do not want to forget the many citizens who work at home and who strictly adhere to the measures. Without their civic spirit, this virus would spread much faster, and we know that this would have disastrous consequences for the capacity in our hospitals. The public authorities are also cutting each other in four to try to deal with this crisis. What are we doing in practice? We inform citizens at a daily press conference. Scientists and members of the Crisis Centre prepare the state of the situation in a clear, honest and univocal manner. In times of crisis, it is very important that everyone communicates in a coherent but also transparent manner. This communication also takes into account all measures taken by the Federal Management Unit. These measures are radical. But this is the only way to avoid exponential growth in the number of cases of infection. Our citizens are indeed aware of this, and therefore they must respect the instructions. Let us not forget the enormous work that has been done by Public Health, which has made it possible to take scientifically sound measures. The Corona Scientific Committee, the Risk Assessment Group and the Risk Management Group are at the centre of this work. Together, they ensure that each policy decision is based on scientific evidence. In addition, all health ministers and their administrations are working collectively to best support the health care sector in the face of this very difficult situation. Thanks to the emergency plans, the capacity of the hospitals has been greatly increased, not only for the regular beds, but also for the beds on intensive care and for respiratory support. We monitor this through the FPS Public Health, which is monitoring in real time three times a day in the so-called Hospital Search Capacity Committee, so that it can be adjusted as soon as a hospital in distress is threatened. The hospital networks, which have received a lot of criticism in Parliament, but which have been able to start at the beginning of this year, are now a real added value. Everyone recognizes that. They strengthen coordination in the field. We are also working day and night to deliver all the material to the health workers, because they are our front soldiers in the fight against the virus and therefore deserve the best possible protection. You have already heard the number of questions: this is a huge domain. It is not just about protection material and testing, but also about all the devices needed for breathing apparatus, dialysis equipment and what is happening in a hospital. I am therefore very pleased that Minister De Backer has been focusing on this since last Sunday, as chairman of the Shortages Task Force, working on increasing testing capacity and delivering the material to hospitals, laboratories and so on. He will give you the latest information on this. I am glad that together, side by side, we can fight this battle. Of course, it doesn't stop with protective and test material. Other measures have been taken. We're giving an advance of $1 billion to our hospitals so they don't get compromised with their cash flow. Administrative simplification and financial security are also available for the triage posts, where, to say the least, the general practitioners are doing a fantastic job. The same applies to the place where people end up when their own family doctor falls out because of illness. There is also the reimbursement of telephone consultations by general practitioners, so that they can continue to play their role remotely. We are also preparing psychological care measures, which is very important. After all, mental well-being is an aspect that we absolutely must take into account. The people who are not up to it, I regard as very vulnerable. The discussions on this matter are ongoing. I would like to thank all those who contribute to the fight against the virus very much, not only for its commitment, but also for the willingness to work together across all policy levels. In scattered battle order, it would be even more difficult for us to control this virus. I would like to stress once again the importance of hygiene measures: keeping away, washing hands, but also reducing the number of contacts with at least 50%. It's really important that we all do that exercise. I did, I decided not to go to the media anymore, but to do it via Zoom and Skype. As a result, I was able to limit my contacts to 50 %. As far as masks are concerned, Mrs. Sneppe, a mask does not fully protect. Specialized masks for people taking care of corona patients offer better protection. However, a virus is about mountains and seas, and it also goes through masks. So they're creating a false sense of security. I understand the emotion in which people think they'll be protected by a mask, but they're not. If you're saying it's going better where there's a lot of masks being worn, then shouldn't those masks have protected the Chinese people? However, it has been severely affected by the virus, despite the fact that a lot of masks were worn in advance, albeit due to different circumstances. I keep saying the same thing. You may change course, but I won't. We must maintain the necessary hygiene measures. This is the only way to overcome this challenge. We face a major viral challenge. Only by listening and doing so will we be able to overcome this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday, at the request of the Prime Minister, Mrs De Block and the entire government, I took over the leadership of the Shortages Task Force. We are currently trying to do everything we can to ensure all the material that is important to the people on the ground. We do this in different ways. We do this by pushing the existing suppliers to deliver and contact them back. We do this by appealing to new suppliers at home and abroad. We are doing this by adding new production capacity in our own country. We also retrieve stocks from Belgian companies that are abroad to Belgium. We're investigating the reuse of materials. We also work out innovative solutions and put them into practice. We are also participating in everything that has to do with European public procurement. So we do whatever it takes. The organization has changed over the past few days. We are now working in five major working groups. Firstly, work on testing and diagnostics, under the leadership of the Rega Institute. There we try to secure the reagents, the sampling material, the machines and the data systems. At the same time, we are also trying to expand capacity, together with universities, biotech, pharmaceutical and suppliers. That effort has been successful. After all, I announced yesterday that we will be going to more than 10,000 tests in the next few days. This is very important when mapping out the crisis, but also afterwards, when we are past the peak, in order to restore normality as quickly as possible. A second working group is working on medicines under the guidance of the FAGG. There we map out what COVID-19-related medicines we need and try to secure and purchase them. This is what we do all over the world. We also identify non-COVID-19-related medications that we're trying to secure for our physicians and our hospitals. A third working group works around the medical supplies, under the leadership of the FPS Public Health and the FPS Economy. There we try to secure the masks, the gloves, the blouses, the hand gels, all the protective equipment for our personnel on the premises. A fourth working group is working on the medical devices, led by the FAGG. There we are looking for ventilators and other devices for intensive units, but also the disposables for the treatment of patients is a priority there. A fifth working group is working on distribution and logistics, under the direction of the army. There we organized a central hub in Peutie. From there we organize the distribution towards the provinces, after which the relief zones can take over and do a more fine-meshed distribution. From the moment of access to a certain equipment, this stock is distributed on the basis of criteria decided by the Risk Management Group. This group is made up of experts, scientists, doctors who advise us. Tonight, I will provide clearer information on the system of health care priorities for certain items of equipment and for testing. Every day we receive material: masks, but also other products. It is important that every person, every company takes responsibility for securing this huge flow for this country. There's a lot of international pressure on that market. I can tell you the expected deliveries, but due to the major international crisis, it is absolutely not certain when and how they will arrive. I intend to communicate about that once a day, if I have any certainty about the shipments. There is no point in the press or others constantly chasing the scoop of an upcoming shipment. We just have to do everything we can to get them to come. In the last 10 days 16.7 million surgical masks have already been delivered to Belgium, of which 11.2 million have been distributed. With regard to the FFP2 and FFP3 masks, 1,125,000 were delivered and 575,000 distributed. Tomorrow, on the basis of the criteria of the Risk Management Group, 3.5 million surgical masks will be distributed among nurses, psychiatric hospitals, midwife, physicists and other healthcare professions. There are also 350,000 FFP2 masks distributed among hospitals. In terms of testing, we have been able to increase the test capacity effectively in our country. We are following a threefold strategy, depending on the evolution of the pandemic. One can currently identify patients carrying the virus. This requires PCR tests. We are working with the universities and the biotechnological and pharmaceutical sectors to achieve this capacity as quickly as possible. We will succeed in this. We also take care of the reagents by making deals with large suppliers. Everyone is cooperating in this, in a great joint effort to make that possible. At the same time, we have had clinical tests carried out over the past week, rapid antigen tests, which should enable us to move to a faster triage of COVID-19 positive and negative patients. Once we are past the peak and many people hopefully will have gotten as little as possible infected, one can do antibody tests. They're much less sensitive. We will then be able to effectively switch to a system of wider testing. For now, we keep the current tests. We'll run it through the hospitals and the labs. We are also working very closely with them to ensure that they are not overwhelmed with questions that are useless at the moment, because many people are not yet infected today. That is the strategy that we will follow in the coming weeks. I don't want to give people the idea that everyone will be tested today. It can't be. We do not have the capacity to do so. No country has that capacity. If we went to 10,000 tests a day, we would test at South Korea's level. Then we would do what happens there, with far more sensitive tests than the tests that are being carried out there. This is what we are doing and what I will continue to do in the coming weeks. The common effort continues. We found a common enemy in the coronavirus. I would therefore like to thank all the aid workers in the first line and also the people who are working today for their efforts to keep this country going and to save lives. I've gotten a lot of good initiatives and proposals from all of you. If we continue to work together, tous ensemble, we will be able to defeat that virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u52	I have been rather generous in measuring the speaking time. So I will also apply it to those Members who want to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I do not like your answer at all. The way you deal with this crisis raises a lot of questions for me and my party. One body after another falls out of the closet, first the mouth masks and the other protective material and then the test capacity. What's the next problem? I am already hearing about drug shortages because certain medicines are apparently already in quarantine. One thing is clear, if we overpower this virus, it will not be because of you and your government, but because of the people who, despite everything, are still holding things straight. I think about the care, the cashiers, the transporters, the rack fillers and you name it. When I asked you last week, I said you'd be far too late with everything. Minister De Backer, thank you for your lovely explanation, but unfortunately it is all far too late. Perhaps it will be better late than never, as the Flemish proverb says. Nurses and doctors come to me with tears in their eyes to tell me how they are doing on duty. One mouth mask is available per person per shift. Madam Secretary, they really feel like front soldiers, but soldiers who are sent to the front without weapons. They're afraid to get infected and infect their own families. They're today's heroes. That is why we call for massive testing and massive protection for them and our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u54	Madam and Minister, I am particularly pleased that the task force is here, let us be clear. However, I would like to point out that we could have tested more extensively earlier if we had had enough material. I'm gonna keep asking questions about that. In the meantime it may not be too little but definitely too late. Madam Minister, I agree with Mr Creemers because the bill for this corona crisis must not end up with the patient. So we strongly urge you to introduce a system in which corona patients will not be charged any fee supplements during this period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. We understand the complexity of the issue and we do not claim that it is easy to manage what is happening to us today in Belgium and Europe. We hear the solutions found day after day and we thank you for that. But we need to hear that you know what you're doing, that you have a clear vision and a plan and that we're not in a "problem, a solution" type of management. Every night, at 8:00 p.m., I applaud for our health care teams, for the people who keep our children, who pick up our garbage, who guarantee our safety, who transport and distribute our food. I do it with all my heart but, every night, I'm a little more uncomfortable because our front-line teams need much more than our applause. They need to be remembered that their current situation is not fatal, but the result of political decisions and budget cuts. Finally, they need a comprehensive pandemic management plan. This plan is your role in providing it, and we're still waiting for it, and we're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u56	Mr President, Minister, you have not had the time to reply to my proposal, but I understand that. It's probably a strange question. The abolition of supplements is not so self-evident now, but we are in unseen circumstances. They call for unseen measures and perhaps also for things that we said a week ago that they cannot. We thought the same about that billion euro extra for hospitals a few weeks ago. I stand by my call to use this crisis as a test case. We are not alone with that question. The director of the Brussels UZ, Marc Noppen, says the same in his diary in De Tijd. He says that hospitals are too dependent on performance and that we may need to come up with a more mixed model. If he thinks about it in full crisis, then so should we. Use this crisis as a test case, take those good practices to the post-corona era, where we go to a financing model that no longer makes hospitals dependent on those supplements on fees and rooms, to a model that also makes our health care more financially accessible to everyone, especially to the financially vulnerable. In full crisis, we leave no one behind. Let us now, but certainly after that, hold on to that good intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to hear that in this time of crisis, in which we need so much time, money and energy for our physical health care, you are still paying attention to our psychological well-being. I'm not saying that because I'm a psychologist myself, but I do because I, and with me a lot of people, know that people who suffer psychologically, are depressed or undergo psychological and physical violence are less immune and therefore more susceptible to diseases, including COVID-19. I would like to thank you for that. Finally, I have a small call. We call on everyone to show solidarity. Maybe it's time to start with each other. In recent days, I have seen politicians tripping over each other to catch each other flying, attacking each other and leaking information to the press, if they are wrong information if they are only the first, while it is just as important that people get the right information. If the medical staff were to deal with each other in this way, "look what I've done," "they made the mistakes" and "I'm the first person on the new delivery masks" I think the number of deaths would be much higher. We have the virus near his neck skin. By working together we can give it the coup du lapin, the neckbeat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u58	Mr President, Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. However, I must confess that I remain hungry. Madam Minister, you continue to emphasise only that one pillar, namely to distance ourselves from society and to have fewer contacts, although the other pillar also needs to be looked at, namely to isolate and diagnose. I note, for example, the number of infections in the rest homes, about which we are informed, and the situation there. It is therefore urgent that the people who work and stay there should be tested and isolated. You do not answer the question of my patient Sara, who works every day in the rest home without adequate protection, while her husband has a cough at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Merckx, the retirement homes are not my competence. Ask your question in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u60	Madam Secretary, I do not agree with that. Whether someone is in a retirement home in Flanders or Wallonia is not important. The problem needs to be addressed centrally and everywhere. We cannot waste time moving the issue to a different level of competence. People want it to be dealt with. That's really important. This requires resources, and these resources can be allocated at federal level. I would therefore ask you to listen to the general practitioners and involve them in the matter. If it is really a question of knowing who is in contact with those concerned and who is a danger, then it is the general practitioners who are a very important source of information. This is also the case, for example, for home care, which is really not sufficiently involved in policy today. I hope you will change your approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u61	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I am convinced that our government will do everything in its power to combat the corona virus, together with all the citizens sitting in solidarity and all the hard-working citizens in the care and all the essential services. The challenge now and in a few weeks' time will continue to be more tested and isolated. For the future, we must stress the importance of broad and sensible testing in the right target groups. Mr De Backer, it is important that we first help the sick and that we do this first with the PCR tests and with the triage tests. However, a strategy must also be in place to test other specific target groups that come into contact with others. I am thinking of police officers and cashiers, but also of others who work outside hospitals. We need to be able to roll out that strategy once all the sick have been tested. We must also avoid bidding between different hospitals. You spoke of a fine-meshed distribution network. I hope it's true. After all, I hear that several hospitals today have to use home-made masks and sterilize masks, with all the consequences. I hear there's a shortage in certain hospitals, and not in others. It can't be tested in one hospital and it can't be tested in the other. There must be no arbitrariness when it comes to life and death. I would like to thank you and wish you all good courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u62	Before I give the floor to Mr Prévot, I would like to say, also for the outside world, that the reason why we are debating this position is only about hygiene. We found that last week, when one person came to the speaker's seat after another, this had to be disinfected with a particular product every time. That wasn't so efficient. It's more efficient, but perhaps less fun for the media, you know, we're debating like we're debating right now and not letting one minister after another come forward to look the speaker in the eye. If we're too close together, that's not good. So everyone's talking about his couch. It has to do with that, and for no other reason. Sometimes I can get a little excited about that, but that is why we are where we are now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u63	Mr President, Madam Minister, we are experiencing a historic crisis. That is why the Socialist Group knows that management is anything but obvious. Having said that, I have not received an answer to all my questions. Mr. De Backer, whom I would like to thank, provided an update on the orders received for surgical masks and FFP2 masks. I hear your difficulty in being able to give details about future orders. Unfortunately, however, this is a response that has been given to caregivers for many weeks. And I can tell you, Madam Ministers, that a whole series of sectors, a whole series of women and men are not, today, properly equipped to practice their profession. Madam Minister, I also did not have an answer to my question about the management of the strategic stock, nor to the famous listings that were provided by INAMI to the governors of that country who themselves passed them on to the cities and municipalities. It is, in any case, very difficult to distribute masks because the listings are not up to date. I did the exercise. In Hainaut, it is the most complete "border". Minister, it is the responsibility of the state to provide masks and protections to all these women and men. At this level, one can only deplore a lack of foresight. And, in my view, this lack of foresight is the result of budgetary considerations and the austerity imposed on health care in recent years. Citizens run sewing machines to equip people. We feel that solidarity is at the heart of this crisis. But all the lessons should be learned from this crisis. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure that caregivers are able to take care of patients safely. This test must also open our eyes: our health care is not just a variable of budgetary adjustment, and they can never again be considered in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u64	I thank the minister and the minister for the clarifications, but I still wonder: why did we not plan this large-scale screening earlier, which is now becoming a necessity, and an emergency even for certain target groups? This screening should not only be used for crisis mapping, minister. This screening is one of the answers to the concerns of all those who continue to work and take risks to their health today. Every day they rightly fear returning home and contaminating their children, spouses or relatives. It is also necessary to provide for post-crisis and whether or not this disease will be taken into account by insurance. We must ensure the safety of all those who, despite the risks, provide basic needs. Of course, we are all thinking here about the healthcare staff, on the front line, but also about pharmacists, cashiers, delivery agents, restockers who allow us to shop and eat, cleanliness staff who sometimes do ungrateful work, who maintain public cleanliness and ensure the collection of waste. I am also thinking of the public service staff. We talked about the factors, but we have to think of all those who provide daily service. For non-essential activities, Mr. Chairman, no risk should be taken. It is the health of the workers above all. It is incorrect to say that, in construction or service titles, one can keep its distance. No! The workers are piled up in vans and, when they arrive at the construction sites, they are in extremely restricted spaces. Service title workers are thousands of people serving more than a million of our citizens. Are we talking about confinement if we send them from home to home? No! It's not respectable. For us, these activities must necessarily be banned, both employers and workers say so. They cannot ensure the safety of workers or the safety of the homes to which they go. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to listen to them. It's an important message!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u65	Madam and Mr Ministers, I thank you for your answers, although I remain cruelly on my hunger. This is the third time, Madam Minister, that I have asked you about home nurses, and this is the third time I have not received an answer. These are 32,000 people who put their lives in danger every day. Therefore, I believe that they deserve more consideration. With regard to serological or screening tests, I would like to commend the work that has been done by companies and university laboratories. We owe them a lot. Therefore, the State must further support scientific research. If I tell you about it, it is because, in the face of the social and economic constraints that this crisis imposes on us, these screening tests give us the hope of a way out, because they will help to avoid further contamination, to ensure the continuity of our care, to take care of the sick quickly and, consequently, to avoid fatal cases. This is what we are seeing today, particularly in Germany, where this mechanism is bearing fruit. Minister, as far as testing is concerned, I understand that you are going to give an answer tonight, as you are not in a position to do so right now. I regret it, but I respect it. I therefore hope that your answers will be consistent with the need to identify, at the very least, those who are at the front and who cannot telework. I am thinking in particular of the health care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u66	Madam Minister, today more than a million people are now in a system of temporary unemployment. That means one in four of our employees. This system of temporary unemployment is important in times of crisis, because in times of crisis people need a strong government that provides certainty and clarity: the certainty that the income of the people who are currently on temporary unemployment is guaranteed by the government. After all, temporary unemployment due to corona has not been a choice, it is above all force majeure. There is no such certainty and clarity today, Madam Secretary. You guarantee that the people who are temporarily unemployed will receive 70% of their wages, but in reality they will not, because a substantial tax of 26.75 % will be deducted from this. In normal times, this is a good system to prevent people from having to pay too much taxes later, but now that temporary unemployment is taking much longer, it is important that this tax goes down, otherwise many people will not live by the end of the month. That is why I have tabled a proposal to reduce taxes on temporary unemployment to 10% during the corona crisis. For example, we are providing the temporary unemployed with the security of a sufficiently high income while the crisis lasts and we are making it clear to them that the benefit they receive today will not be reduced tomorrow. Are you prepared to support that proposal, Madam Secretary? I would also like to take this opportunity to look at the interim workers. When things go badly economically, they are often the first victims. That's what's threatening to happen today. I got a lot of signals from interim workers who were put on day-to-day contracts, so they would not be entitled to temporary unemployment. Meanwhile, an agreement was made with the sector federation Federgon to avoid that. Is that correct and can you explain this further?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u67	Thank you, Mrs Kitir, for your question. You rightly pointed out in your introduction that temporary economic unemployment in the context of corona is important. In 2009, too, this measure proved its worth, something for which we were praised internationally by the OECD and others. I am convinced that even today this measure is the best way to give oxygen to our companies, but also to our people. You rightly say that the invoices must be paid and that people must have a decent income. Mrs Kitir, as you yourself said, we must not forget that there are more than a million people in temporary unemployment today because of corona. At the request of both employers and employees, we have greatly simplified the procedure for this. We made sure people get into the system automatically. In doing so, the government has taken additional measures. You know that we have brought the percentage from 65 % to 70 %. A supplement of 5.63 euros per day was added. This means a further EUR 150 gross added where, as you say, a further 26% of social contributions are deducted. In the context of the measures we are taking, it is not insignificant to refine further. We need to consider how to keep people in the crucial sectors at work. We get a lot of questions to encourage people to continue working in many sectors, but certainly also in the essential ones. There is also the right concern to have more hands in key sectors such as food, healthcare, logistics and other sectors. We are fully investigating what additional measures we can take. There was a problem with interim work, and that's where we changed it. We do that every day: if there are problems, we try to adjust as much as possible. People who were expected to still have an interim contract today if there were no corona, all had access to the temporary unemployment system. So we're really doing our best there. There's something else I need to get off my chest. We are taking measures today, but it is important to consult with the regions, to check that the measures are compatible and what the possible effects of cumulative measures, however well-intentioned they may be by many colleagues, may be. These consultations remain important: there must be no negative effects from what we do in addition. If there are any problems on the ground, I would ask you to report them to us as soon as possible. We have now introduced a system which I am convinced is the correct and correct system to give oxygen to companies and to the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. This is an exceptional situation which, of course, requires exceptional measures. I understand, therefore, that there is always a change of direction. We notice that too, and we are following it very closely. I am grateful that you have quickly switched over the interim workers in order to clarify them as quickly as possible. With regard to the taxation of temporary unemployment, I hope you will take our suggestion with you. Here too, the current situation is temporary and new. In the past, people were meant to be placed briefly in temporary unemployment. Now no one knows how long it's gonna take. It will have a huge impact on people's income. People are asking for certainty and clarity. I would therefore like to reiterate our proposal to reduce the tax rate of 26.75 % to 10%, in order to guarantee more income for people. I hope you'll take that with you. In any case, we will keep following it up and we will continue to question you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, allow me to pay tribute to all the workers who are on the front line today in the essential sectors of health, transport, large-scale distribution, waste collection, and I am going through this. All those who show dedication that, it must be said, forces respect. Tribute also to those in our SMEs who are fighting to preserve what can be. Because this crisis has a huge economic impact in our country. As you have already mentioned, the government has taken some 20 measures of support. Nearly two billion will be spent on preserving employment and maintaining a minimum income level for those affected by the crisis. Our companies benefit from payment deferrals or the extension of the bridge right for the self-employed. Minister, we must also ensure that consumers are protected. As is well known, the financial sector is committed to providing borrowers affected by the crisis with a non-cost-free deferral of their mortgage repayments. This is not about consumer credits. However, according to Statbel's latest figures, households have a debt of almost 27 billion euros. Several associations called for sanctions for non-payment of these credits to be suspended for those who suffered temporary unemployment. Finally, with regard to travel bookings for the coming months, our European Commissioner, Didier Reynders, has told Belgium that temporary measures to support the sector are not in line with European legislation. You had announced a temporary exemption from the obligation to reimburse the consumer for an organized but cancelled trip. European law stipulates that consumers have the right to choose between either a refund or a voucher valid in the coming months. Minister, what measures does the government intend to take to reward the courage and tireless work of employees and self-employed people who are currently on the front line? Can we, for example, consider an exceptional premium for these mobilised people? As far as consumer credit is concerned, is an extension of the measure taken for mortgages possible? If not, what answer could you provide to households in difficulty? Finally, as far as travel bookings are concerned, is an amendment to the Royal Decree planned in order to comply with European legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u70	Madam Secretary, the impact of the corona virus on our families and our companies is immense. Many workers were temporarily unemployed from one day to the next. For most of them it was the first time in their career. It does something to a human being. Fortunately, the various governments have taken swift and firm measures to support them. We must limit the loss of income of our employees and our self-employed, because our economy must continue to run. The economic engine must certainly not stop. It is hopeful that self-employed people will be creative and continue to work, for example by providing home supplies. There are also many companies that want to work, but which have to do with a lack of raw materials, a lack of staff or a lack of orders. That's alarming, isn't it? For example, there is a risk of a shortage of staff in the food sector and also in the agricultural sector. While more than one million people are technically unemployed at home, in other sectors they are longing for additional workers. We need more helping hands on the work floor. Students can help with that. They have time and desire to work, but they often do not find a student job, or have already reached their quota. The healthcare sector is also falling short. It's all hands on deck to keep that turning. People work there in difficult circumstances. We should support them as much as possible, as should those working in the food sector, childcare and waste collection. Madam Secretary, my questions to you are very specific. A lot of measures have already been taken to support people who are out of work. But working still has to pay more than staying home. We must also support and encourage those who continue to work. A round of applause is nice, but they don't pay invoices. What measures will be taken for the working people? Essential sectors must continue to operate. They're shorthanded. How can we employ people who are now temporarily at home in these crucial sectors? Students can help with that. What measures can we take to give students a student job and to ensure that they do not exceed their quota? Finally, we must look beyond the current crisis. After the crisis, the economy must be revived. Consumer confidence must grow again. What measures can we take to achieve this? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I will continue with the answer I gave to Mrs Kitir. We have left with a first group of ten measures relating to temporary unemployment. This is a very important measure for us to give oxygen to companies and people. It was the companies that came to us, almost begging, to take these measures, to ensure that the costs of wages would be reduced in the short term and that oxygen would be given to companies. We must not forget that. This first group of basic measures was important. There are also a lot of financial measures in this area. I believe that new specific measures are now rightly requested. We need to look at the needs by sector here. Two groups of measures are needed. Firstly, people at work must be encouraged to continue working and they must be able to do so in safe conditions. I totally agree with that. I am sorry that examples are quoted from certain angles that one would get more by staying at home than by continuing to work. That's not true. Even at the lowest wages there is still a difference of 300 to 400 euro net. I regret this, because it gives the wrong impression. However, we must beware of a bid. With the regions, we must certainly look at whether certain well-meaning measures do not have a negative effect. How can we encourage the people who work? I think employers can play a role in this. Some of us are already doing this today. I think we should take very specific fiscal and social measures here which are beneficial to employers. We can do this with the government, too. A second group of measures aims to increase the number of people employed in the health, food, and key sectors. People are at home and willing to get to work. We need to see how we can reconcile certain systems. Students and temporary unemployed were mentioned. How can we use them in sectors where more hands are needed? These are measures that we are now looking at together with the regions. I also agree that we need to find long-term solutions. We created the Economic Risk Management Group. The ERMG is chaired by two co-chairs, Mr. Pierre Wunsch, Governor of the National Bank, and Mr. Piet Vanthemsche, who gained a lot of experience during the dioxin crisis. ERMG has three main tasks. It is responsible for measuring the impact of the VOCID-19 pandemic on our businesses, sectors and financial markets. It must ensure that our critical businesses and infrastructure continue to function. They should also propose measures to the government to combat the crisis and play a coordinating role. They also need to consider measures to enable our economy to get off to a smooth start. The ERMG attempts to map the economic impact as best it can. To this end, it is supported by the services of the National Bank. The ERMG also collects the necessary economic information on the situation of the various economic sectors in our country, through employers' and workers' organisations and through its own studies. The impact of the health crisis on our economy will be important. It is still too early to publish precise figures on the crisis. Mr De Maegd, the government has taken a decision on the travel sector and the vouchers. It's a surprise to me that you're asking that question. I know that Commissioner Reynders has made statements about this. If we did not take this measure today, it would be the end of many companies in the travel sector. Remember, we only had Thomas Cook's bankruptcy a few months ago. We are trying to find a solution, and we are still trying to refine it to stay as close to European legislation as possible, but giving it today is important. People have not lost their money and if something goes wrong, they are still covered by the Guarantee Fund Travel. After a certain period of time, we will see whether we can repay people in certain circumstances, but the government, including your party, is convinced that this is today the best measure to protect both consumers and the travel sector in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would point out that our thoughts go to the relatives of the victims of the crisis, to those who are fighting for their survival right now and to those who are fighting to save them. In addition to the government's 20 support measures for workers and businesses, I invite you to look closely at the granting of an exceptional premium for all those who are currently on the front line – healthcare providers, retail and transportation personnel, etc. – who, at the risk of their health, show extraordinary dedication. With regard to consumer credit, I encourage you to find a quick solution so as not to strangle financially those who cannot temporarily repay them, for example for the purchase of a car. With regard to the citizens who have booked a trip in the coming months, I hear your concern – praiseworthy – to preserve the tourism sector. It is essential, but it should not be possible for our country to be in full compliance with European legislation and for consumers who have booked a trip to suffer the double penalty of having paid for it and not being able to take part in it. I'm counting on your vigilance to avoid this kind of scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u73	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. We are, of course, very pleased with the package of measures you have already taken. We are also counting on measures to support the working people and, above all, to encourage people to continue working and to return to work. We hope that there will also be an arrangement for the students. Work must be supported and encouraged as much as possible. I have heard suggestions here from various groups. This is, of course, constructive, but no action must be taken. However, it is very important that the measures taken by the various authorities are properly coordinated. Each measure must also be assessed on the basis of efficiency and focus. After all, we must not forget that every measure costs money. According to the figures currently available, the budget deficit will reach EUR 30 billion. Every euro we spend now will also have to go somewhere after the crisis. We need to be aware of that. So there is also an impact on future generations. That is why it is so important that we keep as many people at work as possible and encourage them to continue to work, albeit in safe conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u74	Mr President, Minister, two types of Belgians are stuck abroad: those who were in transit (tourists, businessmen and women, students) and those who usually reside abroad but might find themselves in a situation of difficulty or even insecurity. Cases are already reported in some Latin American countries. To date, 27,000 Belgians are registered on the traveellersonline site, but it is not up to date. Some of the people registered on this site have already returned to Belgium and others have never registered. On this site, you advise Belgians abroad who do not reside there to return and you send them to the travel agencies or to their airline. You also indicate that the resources of the embassies are very limited. But many borders are closed or closed and airlines interrupt, for the most part, their usual flights. I know that you don't stand up and that several repatriations have taken place. However, many Belgians now feel abandoned. Minister, what is your strategy? What are the real means used by Belgium to bring these citizens back in difficulty? What budget have you made available for this purpose? How many flights? To which country? When? To repatriate how many Belgians and according to what priority criteria? What costs will these Belgians possibly incur for their repatriation? What assistance, if any, can be provided to those who remain trapped? European cooperation does not seem to be excellent in this area. It's an understatement. There is no sense of leadership, no real European coordination. It is above all the intergovernmental system that works. Seems like it's giving-giving. If a Member State charters a flight and accepts nationals of another Member State on that flight, it is likely that the other Member State will return the lift to it. It's not right. What is the state of European coordination today? With what budget and role? Why does the European External Action Service not itself operate flights? It is time to move to the European level at a higher speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u75	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, let me first of all highlight the excellent work done by officials of the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs both in Brussels and abroad. This work is not easy because we are facing a crisis that affects the entire planet. And, unlike a classic crisis, we're being attacked by phone calls from around the world. Before answering your questions, you obviously have to take a few things into consideration and look at the fabric of our actions since the beginning of this crisis. On March 3, we felt things were going to get worse. We have therefore taken the initiative to postpone Diplomatic Days. Our goal was then to allow our teams to be on site, if necessary. I think we did the right thing. On 14 March, we issued a negative travel notice for the entire world, which was reinforced on 18 March, on the basis of article 7 of the royal decree that was taken. On that occasion, we banned all travel elsewhere in the world, except for so-called essential reasons. On 19 March, we opened our crisis centre 24 hours a day to respond as much as possible to the calls we received with a dozen people who were constantly present. But you can't imagine how many calls we recorded during this period. We assign 302 employees daily to the work currently under way to allow our nationals to be treated in the best possible conditions. But it must be noted that the multiplication of requests sometimes makes our server difficult to access although permanently reachable. Unfortunately, negative criticisms are often heard, and more attention is given to positive points than to positive ones. It is true that everything is not resolved to date, but many solutions have already been made. We have organized several repatriations. To be precise, to date, we have organized twenty flights, seven from Morocco, two from Tunisia and eight from the Canary Islands. Repatriations of Belgians are currently under way from Senegal. And we are preparing for the repatriation of Belgians from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. What have we done to allow our citizens not to have the unpleasant and unjust impression of being abandoned to their fate? We set up a call center. In addition, there are also our travesellersonline site, which has some shortcomings that will need to be addressed in the future. Indeed, people who register on this site sometimes forget to unsubscribe once they return home. You quoted the figure of 27,000 registered Belgians. This figure has increased to 17,000, following an update of the information. I would also like to address the question of making the most effective contact with our nationals. Here I would like to refer to the use of social networks and Facebook, in particular, with the creation of a platform, on the one hand, to provide very specific answers and, on the other hand, to set up a solidarity network in favour of Belgians who are still abroad and to make them benefit from the presence of expatriates who can make them benefit from their local expertise. We also constantly update our travel notices. In this cell, which is available to our citizens, we are also monitoring the security situation, country by country. With regard to the budget allocated to repatriations, any request is systematically validated by the Minister of Budget, who is present here. At this stage, our expenditure is EUR 1.7 million. Returns are paid under the debt recognition mechanism. This means that someone who reserves a robbery that we charter specifically must sign a debt recognition and must pay it once they return. When you're on a flight organized by a conventional airline, whatever it is, people obviously have to pay for their return ticket. You are talking about European cooperation; it exists. You know that we are organising returns with other European countries. I will take two very concrete examples. Thus, we organized it, from Senegal, with our Luxembourg friends, so that seventeen of their compatriots returned on a plane chartered by Belgium. Conversely, some 40 Belgians were able to enjoy an aircraft from Cape Verde, chartered by Luxair. In short, collaboration works. You also know that, when it is set up, the European financial intervention mechanism can be used. Our logic with regard to repatriations is very simple: it targets people who are temporarily staying, for their work or because they are on holiday, as well as expatriates who would have serious health problems. I would also point out that we advise those who can still take a regular line, even if it is increasingly difficult, to opt for this solution. Moreover, we are faced with another difficulty, which it is difficult to solve immediately – although with the contacts it is getting better: the closure of the airspace, which sometimes makes things more complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u76	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to commend the efforts of your colleagues, diplomats and officials, who do not count on their time to try to repatriate Belgian nationals. Secondly, I think it is time to demand that the European Commission move to a higher level of coordination. European flights must be established. If my information is good, there is also the whole problem of movement in the Schengen area for Belgian nationals who are sometimes stuck in other European countries. I am quoted in particular in Poland. I am of course counting on you to try to unblock these issues and also to have this discussed at the forthcoming European Council. I hear that the Belgians who are repatriated are being sent to sign debt recognitions. I would like to insist that the airlines themselves reimburse the sums which the Belgians have had to pay to take flights, and that they should be able to compensate those Belgians. Finally, I would like us to have a solidarity mechanism at European level in the future that will allow each of the nationals of the Member States to benefit from flights chartered by the other Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u77	End of oral questions. Today, in exceptional times, I have also been somewhat exceptional with the time regulations. But you will notice, if you do not pay attention to it, then there will be a small hour. As from next week, I will be looking at that a little more closely. But I didn't have the lyrics about the special powers yet, so I wanted to temporize a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u78	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u79	The proposal concerns the possibility of derogating from the quorum. If people cannot physically be present, they could still be counted for the quorum. We approved that proposal this morning in the Rules of Procedure Committee and our rapporteur was Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, who will present an oral report on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Labour considered as a matter of urgency a bill amending the Rules of Procedure of the House. The purpose of this proposal is to adapt the way in which the Chamber deliberates following a serious and exceptional situation that threatens public health and prevents members of the House from being physically present. It is in fact the title of the bill, which already says a lot about its content. In its introduction, the President of the Chamber, the author of the proposal, stressed that the proposed arrangement required the Conference of Presidents to decide by consensus to initiate a specific procedure, indicating which urgent decisions could be taken under that procedure. The prevented members may return their ballot papers electronically at the time when the members who may be physically present cast their votes. For the purpose of calculating the quorum, the members unable to attend shall be regarded as physically present members. Although the proposal does not concern the organization of video conferencing, this issue has also been discussed, perhaps in a mink of the future. The Speaker of the House indicated that this videoconferencing mechanism was not easily adapted to the legislative work in committee, which was dynamic, and in which many amendments could be tabled and debated. You also indicated, Mr President, that the proposal did not regulate the holding of votes by secret ballot. Finally, the proposal in question constitutes a regulatory framework, on the understanding that it is the Conference of Presidents which must define the practical arrangements for setting up this mechanism. The Conference of Presidents will therefore have a clearly central role to play in its implementation and will work towards consensus, as I said. Good information from all members and groups about the future mechanism will, of course, also be necessary. The proposal was adopted unanimously. The members did, however, make several comments. All Members have pointed out that this procedure must remain exceptional. The text states that this procedure can only apply on the basis of a decision of the Conference of Presidents on urgent matters in the event of a situation in which Members cannot physically be present because of a serious threat to public health. She can only last as long as that situation persists. Several members stressed the need for efficient systems, ensuring the identification of participants and adapted to the nature of parliamentary discussions. In this regard, the services are already making the necessary preparations. Perhaps an inspiration can be found in other assemblies that already have remote meetings. A mechanism must be found that meets the specific needs of the House. The Conference of Presidents and the management bodies will of course follow this work over time. Three amendments were also adopted unanimously. The electronic remote voting will take place from the time when the President opens votes and until the vote is closed. Members of the Chamber who are not physically present shall inform the President or the Registrar in advance that they will cast their votes in accordance with the proposed procedure. Mr President, several members thanked you for taking this initiative and doing this work with your staff and services. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this system has been adopted unanimously, which shows that everyone is aware of the importance of the health issue that we have to deal with collectively. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my brief report on our work this morning. At the request of the President of the Chamber, it was translated into two languages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u81	Members are registered, but they are not present in the Chamber. Mr Van der Donkt took the floor this morning. I'm looking at Ecolo-Green and PS. I assume that the PS Group has already spoken through the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u82	Mr President, there is unanimity on the matter. We understand the circumstances well and there is no need to add to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u84	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1100/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1100/4) The title in French has been amended by the committee in 的Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with a view to adapting the way in which the House deliberates following a serious and exceptional situation which threatens public health and which prevents members of the House from being physically present". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in 的Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with a view to adapting the way in which the Chamber deliberates following a serious and exceptional situation which threatens public health and prevents members of the House from being physically present". The proposal has 4 articles. The proposal contains 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u86	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kristof Calvo, Peter De Roover, François De Smet, Catherine Fonck, Georges Gilkinet, Meryame Kitrir, Ahmed Laaouej, Egbert Lachaert, Benoît Piedboeuf, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. There are two rapporteurs, Mr Donné and Mr Thiébaut. I give the floor to Mr Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u88	Mr President, in theory, I must share this report with my colleague Donné, whom I do not see. So I'm going to do it on my own, which is a bit annoying because I agreed with him. There he is!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u89	Both rapporteurs are present. He's the one who's starting. There's at least one deal between you and the N-VA!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u90	Mr President, we have divided the task into two. Mr Calvo, Mr Donné, Mr Laaouej, Mr Van Langenhove, Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Demon, Mr Hedebouw and Mr Lachaert, Mrs Kitir and Mr Fonck, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Budget and Civil Service in charge of the National Lottery and Science Policy. The Committee decided to follow the Council of State's opinion on the division of the legislative proposal, the provisions under Article 74 of the Constitution, on the one hand, and Article 78, on the other. It therefore applies Rule 72 (2), second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. However, the Council of State notes that, in accordance with Article 72 (2) of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, the legislative proposal should be divided into two parts, on the one hand, the provisions governing a matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution and, on the other hand, the provisions governing a matter referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u91	Firstly, following what Mr Donné has just said, the rapporteurs present a single report on all these provisions. Secondly, only one vote was taken in committee on the whole bill. However, it must be considered as dealing with both bills. Thirdly, two texts adopted in committee are drawn up and transmitted to the plenary in the form of two separate texts. Article 1, which has a separate title, is divided. The Parliamentary Concertation Committee will be informed of this. MM. Van Langenhove and Depoortere and Mr Calvo et al. tabled amendments. Amendments 10 to 13 were adopted. Therefore, Amendments Nos 1, 4, and 6 to 9 have become moot. Amendments 3 and 5 were rejected. The bill as a whole, as amended and corrected on the legislative and linguistic levels, was adopted by 14 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions. I thank my colleague for the very difficult work we have done together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u92	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is one of the most fundamental debates a parliament can hold from a constitutional point of view. Fortunately, such a debate takes place in this House only very exceptionally, because it is not a technical matter. It is quite understandable that the public's attention today is not primarily focused on the stands and the hemisphere. But also in crisis conditions it is important that everyone does their own job in full seriousness. It seems to me that it belongs to the core mandate of Members of Parliament to ensure that the basic democratic rules are observed. That's what's on the table right now. I hope and I assume that we can all be allies in the surveillance of its borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u93	In the case of special powers, Parliament gives the government the opportunity to take part in its place, thereby putting the principle of the separation of powers on hold. In the last few days strong reservations have been expressed, particularly in the legal circles, about the text as it stands today. Well, they are right; I confirm that as co-author of the proposal. I fully understand their concerns and let them include a clear warning. Special powers are always problematic and, by definition, go to and sometimes over the edge of the democratically acceptable. An in-depth discussion in committee this morning is therefore not a matter of political games, but of taking its own mission seriously. Nevertheless, as I said, I have submitted the text because, of course, the responsibility of a politician always goes wider than the office in a study room, just as the coronavirus is not restricted by opinion articles. In its opinion, the Council of State states that four important conditions must be met in order to justify special powers. That is what is being done in this situation. If we go to or perhaps even across the border today of what is characteristic of normal democracy, it is a clear warning to the government from the Chamber courts. Our group supports the Special Powers Act, because there should be no apparent impression of obstacles being placed that could hinder a rapid and effective approach to the corona crisis. Parliamentary procedures should not constitute obstacles with a favourable legislative power, but they could indeed be. We therefore certainly see the logic of the special powers in these special circumstances. However, it cannot be the intention, ladies and gentlemen, to abolish democracy. It cannot even be the intention of us to abolish Parliament's control. What we are doing today is placing the greatest responsibility on the government. It will therefore have to answer for what it does and will not do. The risks are clear. Firstly, a special power law offers the opportunity to act too quickly. Of course, it is the intention of special powers to act faster than usual, but caution is certainly necessary. Secondly, we run the risk of the government doing sloppy work. It is therefore that the role of the Council of State and other advisory bodies is so essential. That is why we have worked hard to achieve this in the drafting of the proposal, thanks to the groups that followed us in it. Thirdly, crisis measures which are only necessary in acute circumstances can become structural and have inappropriate effects in normal times. We must also pay attention to this. However, may I, Mr Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, stress a fourth risk, namely the unnecessary use of the special powers? As has already been said, special powers make it possible to act quickly when the normal way through Parliament prevents an effective approach. It is a serious misunderstanding to think that Parliament could no longer play a role. In cases where extreme urgency is not necessary, the normal parliamentary route should be chosen. I would point out that Article 2 of the present bill clearly states that the King may read the government to take action. It doesn't say she has to do it that way. I would like to stress that here and I call on the government to act in that spirit. If we give the government this special space today, it does not mean that we are giving our blessing, in advance and by definition, on the extent and manner in which it will make use of it. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, we cannot know today to what extent you will avoid the risks mentioned and the other risks. The debate on the use of the special powers will follow later. We will make that very clear, given the commitment, but that is not the issue today. It is with full awareness of the risks that we have called for an opinion from the Council of State on the proposal and I thank the President of the Chamber for having used that question. The opinion also led to significant improvements being made to the proposal this morning. For this reason, too, quite explicitly, we asked for a defined assessment after three months and we stress that a serious follow-up to the use of the special powers is of the utmost importance. The structure set up by the government to guide the implementation of the special powers exudes a strong smell of participation; hence the other, more parliament-friendly interpretation, for which our party has chosen. This should not be enough for our House, hence the importance of the committee that will be set up shortly. Today, as responsible legislators on behalf of the N-VA Group, we say that special powers can be useful in addressing the challenges we face. Whether the government will use it meaningfully and with due restraint will only be proved by the facts. Mr Vice Prime Minister, members of the government, use the very exceptional instrument of the special powers usefully and you think our group is on your side. Abuse the special powers and our group will ask you to account for them with the appropriate rigour. Today, the foundations of democracy and the rule of law are on the agenda. An overly narrow, dogmatic approach could hinder an effective and effective fight against the corona beast, and then we will abandon all the people who are now working hard on the ground to combat the corona crisis. Too much tolerance in the assessment later would make us complicit in undermining those foundations. My group does not have the ambition to sin against either of these mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u94	Madam President, special powers, by definition, can only be used in very special, extraordinary situations. These conditions are very clearly defined by the Council of State. In this case, they are completed. It is the health crisis that strikes us violently, as it strikes the whole world. For environmentalists, it is clear that the situation requires an exceptional response, commensurate with the exceptional situation we are experiencing. It was clear to support the solutions to be implemented. No one can predict the evolution of the situation in our country and elsewhere. No one can predict the duration and severity of the health crisis. No one can say with certainty that this Parliament will be in a position tomorrow to act with the speed and efficiency necessary in the face of everyday emergencies: after the health issue, economic issues, social issues, internal security issues. Nothing should be left to chance. We must be prepared, at the level of the stakes, to act quickly and effectively. What mobilises caregivers on the ground, which mobilises those who provide essential services, in the area of aid to people or in distribution, small or large; which mobilises and motivates those who agree to remain confined at home to avoid contaminating other people and to stop the spread of the virus; all this must also mobilise this Parliament. That is why we first suggested this logic of special powers, that we signed this bill, while not part of the majority or the government; that is why we will also vote for it. Is this a blank cheque for the benefit of the interim minority crisis government? Of course not! The text was weighed. It defines the areas of action on which action can be taken within the framework of these special powers. First, health; second, protection of the weakest, economic issues, the question of the redeployment of our economy that will have to arise very early – from our economy, but more broadly, from society. The duration of these special powers is three months, which can be extended three months by a new vote of this Parliament. This was clarified by an amendment which was incorporated into the text this morning. A procedure, also, with an obligation to ratify by law within the year decisions taken by decree of special powers. The Council of State was questioned. That was also our request. He made remarks that made it possible to improve and clarify the text. The issue of the protection of social rights remains an obvious one. The joint consultation mechanisms cannot be set aside on the subject. That will be one of our concerns. It will not be a question of taking advantage of this crisis to return to essential social protections conquered in high struggle. It is obviously not for workers, patients, social beneficiaries or pensioners to pay for the effects of this crisis. For future decrees of special powers, neither the Council of State nor the social partners can be set aside. We need both strong legal measures, but also measures from both this Parliament and society, to be able to manage this crisis that we are experiencing, and to manage the ensuing period of redeployment of our economic and social model. We decided earlier in the Conference of Presidents, according to another request made by the ecologists, to set up a special Corona committee, if I can call it that. It will enable Parliament, as provided for in this Act, to be closely involved in the decisions to be taken. Above all, at the political level, we have heard the commitment of the Prime Minister and of the government as a whole to engage widely in dialogue, to respect each other, to make reasonable, intelligent and concerted use of these special powers. But we are obviously not naive. We will not be distracted or distracted as to the use that will be made of it. The decrees of special powers that will be taken will be combed fine by the environmentalists, dissected and evaluated, and if necessary, challenged and corrected. The members of the government in day-to-day affairs, who are no longer members of the temporary crisis government, will be under surveillance and we will not spare them, Mr.Clarinval, if they are mistaken, take advantage of them, or if they make bad decisions. More positively, we will not forget to make suggestions with regard to the management of this crisis. Yesterday we communicated to the government 50 first proposals, 50 first emergencies that we identified to help it in its crisis management work. Our objectives for the further management of this health crisis are obvious: to limit the effects of the pandemic, finally to give health workers all the means of protection that are necessary to be able to save as many lives as possible and to protect the most fragile, to ensure that the crisis does not cause indirect victims – those who are on the brink of the abyss, those who lose their jobs, those who were already sick –, to ameliorate the economic shock, as we propose to do with Minister De Croo with the law on bank guarantees, which will be passed earlier and which will integrate, thanks to an amendment supported unanimously, the non-market sector, and to reflect on how to think differently society tomorrow. All this is the meaning of the signature we have placed on the document and of the vote we are going to put forward, but also of the vigilance and the proposalal will that will be ours at this particular time. For the rest, we'll see. The Prime Minister said in the rostrum of this chamber that she would again ask for confidence within six months. Will there be a full-fledged government? Whatever. At this stage, what matters is the ability of the state, the democratic forces, the government and the Parliament to join forces to fight the coronavirus, to take all the lessons of the crisis we are experiencing and of the dependence that is now ours on distant economies and the fragility of our health care system as a result of too many years of austerity imposed on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u95	Mr Gilkinet has given Mr Calvo two minutes. That will probably have been spoken through in the joint group, I suppose. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the country is going through a particularly deep crisis, of a gravity that no one will dispute. As I said earlier, taking urgent and necessary action is, in my view – and I do not want to over-dramatize – a matter of life or death. We see it well. In some countries, doctors die. In our home, some of their colleagues are already infected with coronavirus. That is to say, if, here, we must make a considerable effort that must mobilize all the living forces of the nation. This means that we must also be able to adapt – and this is not a pleasure – the functioning of our institutions. That is why my group will vote for these special powers, by which Parliament releases – if I may say so – part of its constitutional prerogatives. Nevertheless, Parliament will do so on a constitutional basis, within a specific but necessary framework. Yes, we must vote for these special powers, because there is an urgent need to find remedies and mobilize our pharmaceutical industry, laboratories, universities and researchers. There is an urgent need to be able, from the outset, to ensure that the important negative social effects are limited and addressed. Let us look at the number of workers who are now disadvantaged by temporary unemployment. Let us look at the number of those who work under unacceptable conditions, because they are insufficiently protected against the risk of spreading the disease. Let us also look at the shortages in certain sectors, which are considered vital, particularly in the field of home help and health-care workers. Let us hear the call of nurses who ask for masks and want their status to be considered. Look at the effort of the white blouses, which remind the government of the need for the famous White Blouse Fund, which we had voted here because we had heard their call. Yes, it is necessary to be able to hear those who, in the front line, fight the disease. It is therefore important that these special powers should also be able to respond to their requests. As I said, we will, of course, avoid any controversy at this time. The word 'polemic' is not in itself rude or vulgar. When necessary, we must be able to say that there is a problem and debate it. In essence, isn't that the primary meaning of "polemic"? At the same time, however, it must be noted that we must learn from what has happened from the outset. The cover-up of masks is unacceptable. That is why the special powers – which must be social – were my conclusion, but I say it right now – must lead you to avoid these cracks. Now we need our supply line to be secure and reliable to ensure that what we order happens quickly and where it must happen, with the required quality, whether it be masks, hospital equipment or medical treatment, or treatment for patients with the virus. These special powers will not be a blank check. As we have said, and indeed our Parliament has decided to set up a monitoring committee in which we will sit and where ministers will be asked to come and explain the royal decrees of special powers to be adopted by the government. Prior to this, these royal decrees will have to be brought to the attention of all the political groups represented in this Parliament, but it is also imperative to integrate social consultation. What happened with a ministerial order to take measures of public order, which indicated the maximum closing time of the stores, is clear from the talk of "fouling". Some were pleased to see that all stores and supermarkets would be opened until 10 p.m. If there had been some social dialogue on this subject, this problem would not have arisen. This is why we need to integrate social dialogue, but also to ensure respect for the social balances that characterize our modern state, in particular the balance between economic interests and the interests of workers. It is precisely our social model, which, if I may say, must not be temporarily unemployed during the management of this crisis. The social partners themselves are applicants. We also need, through these social powers,... Definitely, my language has once again forked: these special powers that must be social,... Freud said that there are two types of lapsus: the revealing lapsus and the unrevealing lapsus. This is a revealing lapsus! More seriously, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to ensure that what is found in this enabling law is respected in the letter, in particular that none of the measures should affect the social protection and purchasing power of workers and their families. It's fundamental! It is for us the cornerstone of the system. If some people think they can take advantage of this tragic moment, let's say, to dismantle a whole series of fundamental social rights, we PS Group will tell them that this will happen without us. Therefore, our vigilance will be at all times to ensure that we can combine an effective fight against the health crisis with the dangers of coronavirus and, at the same time, prevent our citizens from being plunged into a form of precarisation or misery as a result of this crisis. The text is clear. He'll have to be respected. In the same way, as the Council of State says, we, as democrats, need to be vigilant. I know that we are a great majority in sharing these values – perhaps less so for others – and in considering that the measures that we are going to take and which affect certain restrictions, including freedom of movement or other fundamental rights, must always be with the trembling hands of those who are aware that public freedoms and fundamental rights, whether enshrined in the Constitution or in international or European human rights instruments, are, whenever and whenever necessary, the light that must inform the way of the legislator or the government in special powers. We therefore call for proportionality in the measures that will be taken with the reflex that each democrat must have whenever there is any question, in one way or another, of any restriction on these fundamental rights and freedoms. For the rest, ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said. Let's get to the bottom of it! Yes, these special powers must now enable us to be of infallible effectiveness in the way we are going to be able to offer all our fellow citizens the capacity to stem the spread of the pandemic together with treatment responses and therapeutic responses. Hospitals must therefore be at the top of our priorities. It's very important. In the same way, we need support and information exchange between our universities and our private and public laboratories, in order to find the medicines and vaccines that will enable us to cure as many patients as possible. That is why we ask you, too, to redouble your efforts. In addition, we ask you to take advantage of these special powers to set up massive screening. It's time to do it. There's no longer any need to tarry. We must be able to do this immediately. On the economic and social front, we want you to be ready to exercise price control. The risk of inflation is not to be excluded. It could itself create a form of insecurity. Of course, there will be no index jump. Let's be clear! Nevertheless, an inflaming risk could initially lead to a form of precarisation. Therefore, price control and blocking should not be prohibited. In any case, it is necessary to entrust the price observatory with the task of exercising strict control. We have taken a number of steps to assist the economic sector through financing and cash advances. A bill will be debated and voted on later. It goes without saying that it will also have to be evaluated. Similarly, on the social front, care must be taken to ensure that people who are temporarily unemployed against their will are not the victims of this health crisis, which must not become a social crisis. This is why everything needs to be studied to ensure that disposable income is not reached. That is why it is also essential to suspend the degressiveness of unemployment benefits, and to relax the rules on the unemployment card, so as not to cause, for example, endless lines which are not justified in front of certain offices. For the rest, we want to tell you this in conclusion, Minister. My revealing lapsus, renewed three times, is indicative of this. If we understand what happened in 2008, and if we really want to overcome what we are facing, first of all in the field of health, but also in the social sphere, we must remain on the side of our most vulnerable citizens. That is how we will prepare for the revival of an effective health policy, economic recovery and social recovery, and ensure that our social cohesion is maintained despite the terrible hardship our country is facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u97	Madam President, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Minister for Health, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is more than serious. We are currently in the biggest health crisis our generations have experienced. We are also heading towards a deep economic crisis that presents us with enormous challenges. A crisis that, contrary to what will be claimed now and in the coming months, could have been prevented perfectly. If the government had controlled travellers from at-risk areas from the moment it became clear how serious this virus was, the corona virus would never have been able to gain such freedom in our country. There's too late and too amateuric. Not to mention the many blunders that have been committed. From the flagrant lying to the citizens about the effectiveness of mouth masks and alcohol gel to destroying our emergency supply of protective clothing without replacing it afterwards, requiring care personnel without protective clothing to go to the front to control this crisis. The so-called experts who gave a positive travel advice to Northern Italy a few weeks ago and who said that it was useless to control returning travellers also have butter on their heads. Like the many citizens who have been so irresponsible to ignore the directives and cross the border at cafés. The government is not the only one responsible for this crisis getting out of hand, but the government has the ultimate responsibility. Prevention is better than cure. We could have at least partially prevented the corona crisis, but unfortunately it is now there. Now we must overcome her. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that drastic times call for drastic measures. The citizens understand that. My group understands that too. But it is our duty as Members of this House not only to be constructive in these drastic times, it is also our duty, and even our duty, to ensure that the measures remain proportionate and do not jeopardise the fundamental rights of our people. When a government that blunders after blunders and has for months minimized the severity of the coronavirus demands confidence to be able to decide completely autonomously on how to deal with a crisis that it itself has caused, a number of alarm bells go off with me and with many informed citizens. Trust must be earned. In recent months, the government has not earned the confidence of its citizens; on the contrary, it has betrayed the confidence of its citizens. A power of attorney law is something very exceptional and requires even more than usual our greatest vigilance. We are voting here on the modalities for the temporary granting of Parliament's most fundamental competence, namely giving the legislative power to the executive. My group still has some serious reservations about this. We are not only in this, as the very critical report by the Council of State which was issued last night showed, but also in the comments of many constitutional specialists and legal scholars. Firstly, we are asking ourselves how this text has been drawn up. The so-called 'Great Union' that Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès is talking about is the government, complemented by the party presidents of ten parties. What is the status of this body? Why doesn't it say anything about this in the legal text? What are the powers of this body? As far as we know, the power to control the government lies with Parliament, the elected representatives of the people, not with the party chairmen. In this country, participation has already undermined democracy more than enough, already ruined enough. We will not stand idly by and watch participation close its stranglehold on our democracy and on our democratic political decision-making even more smotheringly. We read in the newspaper that the party chairmen will check every week behind closed doors how the powers of attorney are exercised. This goes against everything that a healthy democracy should stand for. The exercise of powers should, firstly, be carried out by Parliament rather than by the party chairmen and, secondly, should not take place in public, in the back chambers of politics. These two elements, openness and fair representation, are in the interests of transparency and democracy to which our citizens and taxpayers are entitled. Colleagues, there are not so many of us here today, can I ask for some respect for the intervention? Madam President? Another element that seriously jeopardises the functioning of Parliament and our democracy is the fact that all checks-and-balances are mentioned only in the explanatory memorandum. We find nothing about this in the legal text itself. By the way, this is a disturbing common thread throughout the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u98	Mr Laaouej, speaking with this distance is even more annoying, I must admit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u99	Thank you, Madam President. The explanatory statement differs greatly from the final text and this gives very little confidence. Not only do I say that, but also the Council of State and a lot of specialists. As far as transparency measures are concerned, we also see the same dangerous phenomenon. The Council of State confirmed this criticism in its report and also expressed reservations in principle about the lack of transparency with which the powers of attorney were defined. In order not to abuse it, it is of the utmost importance that powers of attorney be developed as specifically and concretely as possible. Otherwise it will be a blank cheque, which will be uncovered in Belgium according to good practice. Every member of the Committee on the Interior meeting this morning agrees that many of these measures are urgently needed. However, they must not be a reason to eliminate democratic control. I will not repeat all the technical issues of this morning, but I would like to talk about this. This control, which belongs to the essence of our duty and duty as representatives of the people, is not guaranteed anywhere in this proposal. On the contrary, it is largely eliminated, especially for those who are not involved in the 'Great Union' for the power of attorney regime. In this way we are taking a dangerous step towards the functioning of our Parliament and our democracy. Not only the Council of State is very critical of this, constitutional specialist Hendrik Vuye even believes that "every democratic control disappears, including as regards fundamental rights and freedoms." My group is therefore convinced that this proposal goes too far for a number of bridges. Because of the vagueness of a number of provisions, which we believe are even contrary to Article 105 of the Constitution, that the King has no power other than that expressly conferred on the Government by the Constitution and by the special laws issued under the Constitution itself. As regards the division of powers between the various levels of government, too, the flaw in this text makes us fear that many of the necessary measures will be applied equally poorly. If we put these fundamental points of criticism side by side, we can only conclude that this bill is far too far-reaching and far too flawed. My group has always been very constructive despite the dedain that some government members cherish for the ordinary Fleming. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments to remedy certain shortcomings in this legislative text. For example, we want to respond to the criticisms of constitutional specialists and the Council of State. We are counting on at least the same amount of constructiveness on your part. Let me give a friendly warning to the politicians who will soon take over Parliament's task from the back chambers of politics. The last word will always be for the people. If you continue to betray the confidence of the people, then the people will end the next elections with the parties that would show themselves to be anti-democratic or anti-Flemish in the coming months. Don't tell me in 2024 I didn't warn you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u100	Madam President, I wanted to react. By hearing nonsense, it ends up irritating. The previous speaker keeps saying that there would be some kind of condescending towards Flanders, etc. We should stop talking nonsense. We have exactly the same respect for Flanders as for Wallonia at the level of the federal government and parliamentary groups. It makes absolutely no sense to have this kind of reasoning and to maintain a kind of hatred, a kind of anti-francophone eugenicism, which is totally unjustified. I'm really getting tired of that kind of language. Until now, I didn't know, but now I'm not going to ignore it anymore, because frankly, it's starting to get me out of everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u101	It wasn't that personal, I thought, Mr. Van Langenhove. Very briefly, you have half a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u102	I do not think that there are people who have been actively following Belgian politics in recent years who are unaware of the dedain and even the hatred of Prime Minister Wilmès for Flemings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u103	As was often said during the debate on the government declaration last week, exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures. No one who doubts that we are living in exceptional circumstances. The corona crisis is an unprecedented crisis. There is therefore no playbook available. There is a global health crisis which, fortunately, remains well under control in our country and which we hope will remain so. In addition to the impact on health care, this crisis also has a huge economic impact. About a million workers are currently temporarily unemployed. These are three out of ten working Belgians in the private sector. Research also shows that one in four Belgian companies will not be able to cope with the economic shock that we are experiencing if two months of revenue does not come, because they do not have sufficient own resources as a buffer to get through this crisis period. This is a serious problem because the measures announced to combat the corona crisis will more than likely not stop on 5 April. So there is a threat of a global economic recession that will hit our companies, the self-employed and employees hard and deeply. The measures announced by the federal and other governments in this country in recent days must help our businesses and the self-employed to get through this crisis. At the same time, the government must ensure that it supports the purchasing power of families so that they continue to consume. In order to deal with this crisis in both health and socio-economic terms, we believe that special powers for the government are absolutely justified. The government must, above all, be able to respond quickly to the circumstances, since the situation is changing day after day and measures may therefore be needed quickly and adequately. In the coming weeks, and perhaps months, it will be an immense stress test for hospitals, but also for companies and banks, which must help businesses through the crisis. It will also be a stress test for the current government. Special powers are not unconstitutional. Both the Court of Cassation and the Council of State consider that special powers are possible on the basis of Article 105 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: "The King has no power other than that expressly conferred upon him by the Constitution and by the special laws issued under the Constitution itself." The authorization requested by Parliament's government to take action in the fight against the coronavirus is justified by our group for several reasons. Firstly, as I have already indicated, exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures. Secondly, last week the government gained the confidence of a large majority here, announcing that it would ask Parliament for powers of attorney. Thirdly, the powers of attorney are requested for a limited period of three months, with the possibility of a one-off three-month extension. Fourthly, the government has committed itself to providing Parliament with transparency on the approach it proposes within the various areas covered by the authorisation proposal. Finally, the powers of attorney are delimited. In addition, it shall specify which matters or parts thereof shall be excluded from the special powers. The following aspects of the legislative proposal are important to our group. Powers of attorney may not affect the social protection and purchasing power of families. The index mechanism of wages, betting and social benefits, welfare adjustments to welfare benefits under the welfare envelope or access conditions cannot be changed. Contributions to social security, taxes, taxes and duties may not be adjusted or altered. Temporary payment facilities, such as deferred payment of advances and square balances, are possible under a payment plan. However, the parameters for calculating contributions cannot be affected. The obligation relating to the payment and reimbursement of taxes and taxes cannot be changed, but can be postponed over time. All necessary measures can be taken to prevent the further spread of the virus, both in terms of public health and public order. Direct and indirect support measures for economic sectors and families can be taken, consumers can be protected and financial stability can be guaranteed. Measures can be taken quickly to safeguard the sectors that ensure security of supply and to ensure public services. The proper functioning of the courts can be ensured. Powers of attorney also allow the administrative and criminal sanctions necessary to enforce the enforcement of the measures taken if necessary. It is also important for our group that the decisions which can lift, amend, supplement or replace the legal provisions, as laid down in the articles of the Council of State's laws, with the exception of those relating to public health and public order, are submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. However, provision is made for the possibility of shortening the consultation periods. Following ratification by Parliament, the Constitutional Court may review the decisions. So it is not true that the citizen is powerless. Human rights are, of course, still valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u104	I read comments, just as the previous speaker mentioned, from constitutional specialists who claim that these powers of attorneys are very far-reaching and would not be democratic, because they concern not only socio-economic issues and health issues, but also public order. With the powers of attorney, people could be deprived of their freedom, as Mr Vuye claims. I would like to make two comments. I note that people's freedom of movement has already been restricted by the government's precautionary measures, i.e. without powers of attorney. This is absolutely justified for reasons of public health. The vast majority of people live up to these precautions, but unfortunately some do not, and then the government must act vigorously. Moreover, we assume that the government will never take measures that will unduly or disproportionately restrict the freedom of citizens. Finally, I would like to stress that it will be very important for the Chamber to be involved in the decisions taken in the implementation of the special powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we must now take important and immediate decisions in the face of urgency to win the fight against the coronavirus. That is not the subject of the debate today. The Labour Party also feels this urgency. That is also one of the reasons why we want to be constructive. Last week, as an opposition party, we approved the budget of EUR 1 billion. That is obvious to us. We also want to support at political level all the good measures that the government will take, although we will no longer be able to vote on them. It is clear that if decisions are taken, for example, to close certain sectors, we will support those decisions. We will support any requests for masks and/or reagents. Of course, we will support measures to provide oxygen to our economy. The political debate will continue at Parliament level. In any case, we can count on our support and that of the people. In fact, the evidence of solidarity is quite impressive, whether it is with regard to garbagemen, bus drivers, nurses and nurses. It is now about all the public services that help us: policemen and women, the municipalities, everyone who helps us get through the crisis. It is important that there is this solidarity, support and constructive attitude. In this sense, you can certainly count on the support of the Labour Party. That is one of the reasons why we asked for a meeting with the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, we were not in the group of ten to hold the discussion, but we certainly expect another meeting to put forward our positive proposals. We have not yet received an answer, but we still hope that this discussion will be able to continue. Today's debate concerns the question of whether, in the event of such a major crisis, it is useful to consolidate democracy. Wouldn't it be better to expand them? The question before us today is: in times of crisis, would it not be better to extend the democratic base rather than restrict it? These special powers, by entrusting exclusive power to the government, will, of course, remove part of a critical debate that we should address. As a left-wing group, as a social group, our fear is that an anti-social agenda will be established through these special powers. Don't tell me: "Raoul, you're dreaming! There will of course be nothing antisocial." It is sufficient, however, to see that one of the first ministerial orders concerned the change of store schedules from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. – a claim that had never been issued in recent years. The MR site goes a little further, proudly highlighting this issue of flexibility. That's not right! Cashiers and shopkeepers are exhausted. They work like not two to reassort the rays and are exposed to the disease, due to insufficient protections. And what does the government do? He accepted a request from Comeos, the employers' federation, to extend the timetables. This fear that, behind the special powers, a left-right social debate will slip is justified. Let's see what's going on abroad. Five hours after obtaining the special powers, the Macron government took the following steps: the possibility of increasing the weekly working time to 60 hours, reducing compensatory rest to 9 hours, working on Sundays and seven days a week. The ink of the special powers was not yet dry. Colleagues, we are facing a real problem. I will be told that the definition of special powers is very precise. For example, some colleagues believe that they have received guarantees. Have we read the same text? In the years 1990 and 2000, special powers were voted. The Council of State had regularly noted that they had been defined positively, i.e. that it was indicated that a particular sector or jurisdiction fell under the control of the special powers – implied not by the other sectors and competences. That was the political approach under Martens-Gol and Dehaene. In the text before us today, however, this is exactly the opposite logic. In other words, the government takes all the skills and excludes some of them. I don't know if you've read the same text as me. I read about Article 3 in the explanatory statement: 'In order to define the special powers precisely, it is appropriate to work with negative indications and, in particular, to indicate the matters or parts of matters which the legislator wishes to keep out of the special powers'. What it says here is that all federal matters are subject to the powers of attorney, except for a few that are registered in it. Which ones are they? No index jump, no reduction in social contributions and taxation. Everything else is subject to special powers. That's a hell of a lot. This concerns foreign affairs, relations with Europe and the world, social affairs, finance, health, SNCB and transport. So it's about all matters, except those three. Left-wing colleagues tell me there's a guarantee that we won't attack purchasing power. Let's be clear, I don't suspect right-wing parties from an attack on purchasing power. They've already done it, they won't come with a new index jump! The question here concerns the Labour Code, which is cited as being the subject of royal decrees. It is about flexibility that the attack will come! Who can guarantee me that we will not decide on flexible working hours? Who can guarantee me that no royal decree will alter or decrease paid leave? No one! That's the problem! Who can assure me that there will not be a royal decree that will change working hours in companies? Who can assure me that there will be conditions for aid to banks? You are asking us, as a left-wing party that defends the workers, to abandon these guarantees by giving full confidence and special powers to the government! You can't ask us that! The attack on purchasing power will not be done by an index jump, it will be done by a lack of additional compensatory measures on economic unemployment. As you know, economic unemployment is capped. In fact, many workers will end up with a replacement income of 60%. That's 40% loss of purchasing power! 40 %, that's awesome. An antisocial measure would not be to take any additional measures on that 40%. People are gonna make so much money. It would be a major economic problem, as Paul De Grauwe says, that we are having such a breakdown in demand because purchasing power will decrease by 30% to 40%, which will simply implode the system. We're gonna have a huge demand problem. We're talking about 40 per cent. I don't know if everyone realizes! That's terrible! There is no guarantee on these issues. When I read the competences proposed to us in Article 5, § 1, 3°, we talk of providing direct or indirect support, of taking protective measures for the financial, economic, merchant and non-market sectors, the companies and households that are affected with a view to limiting the consequences of the pandemic. You can imagine what mandate it is here! You're mandated to give billions to the banks. Point 4 deals with ensuring the continuity of the economy, the country's financial stability, the functioning of the market and consumer protection. So we're talking about protecting the functioning of the market. It is because of this famous capitalist market that protective masks cost 20 times more than before the crisis. Indeed, in accordance with one of the great mechanisms of triumphant capitalism, the more one needs something, the more one pays. As far as I'm concerned, I could have lived in a society driven by another logic that the more you need something, the less you have to pay. The use value of the products would then have been discussed. But, in this case, there is a question of the exchange value. So we are now in a situation where players in the market are speculating and making a lot of money because there is a huge global demand for masks. And you are asking me to vote in favour of a mandate to continue to accept that the market is functioning in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot vote in favour of this. I read Article 5, 5°: 'Applications to labour law and social security law, with a view to protecting workers and the general public, the proper organisation of enterprises and public authorities, while safeguarding the economic interests of the country and the continuity of critical sectors'. Here we have it. It's all about labour law. And then there's the discussion we had with our Prime Minister this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it a little problematic to say that there is urgency and that there is therefore no political debate. The measures, through royal decisions, which will be taken tonight and tomorrow, are already a sign of a left-wing or right-wing debate. Which sectors should close and which should not? Of course, the interests of the big bosses in these sectors are not the same as those of the workers. Let us not be naive. On 13 March, Mrs Wilmès gave a list of the essential sectors. You can check in the texts, ladies and gentlemen: an essential sector is a sector that cannot be closed, even if it does not respect the rules. That's what the ministerial decision says. So that's not nothing. It's an essential sector. The list just got four times as long in five days. Who took care of that? The Prime Minister's phone must have often been ringed by all the Patronal federations asking whether their sector can still remain open. Result, today, out of 3 million employees, 2 million work in an essential sector. That's a political discussion, isn't it? As a member of a left-wing party, I believe that, in view of the rise in the virus crisis, a maximum number of sectors should be closed. People have to stay home. Of course, not the staff of the hospitals, of course not the staff of the transport of medical products, of course not the staff of the food sector. Let us stop making caricatures. But what good is it that in Antwerp chemical companies still produce plastic chairs? What's it about now? That a company in Limburg can continue to produce heaters? A company in Limburg continues to produce heating. Come on, we'll stop! What does it mean to continue to operate such companies? It's not serious! These people are obliged to take their cars, to go to work, to meet workers in conditions in which it is not possible to comply with the confinement rules. It's a left/right debate. We must stop saying that in times of crisis, there are no such issues anymore! I do not agree with that. In conclusion, I think there is still one last democratic problem. The Human Rights League tells us that there is a serious problem, today, for the protection of privacy. Several university professors say so. There are some who say clearly that they understand the need for action, but at the same time they are concerned. That's what our professors at the University of Antwerp tell us. What do the German liberals of the FDP say, not a PVDA source? I would like to quote the German Liberals: "The current drastic measures may be necessary to slow down the spread of coronavirus. But they must not cause lasting damage to the liberal character of European democracies. Our liberal democracy is based on the idea that there is an inextricable link between democratically legitimate state power and certain civil and human rights." It is the German Liberals who say so, Mr President. "In such a system, individual rights may also be applied against the power of the State. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán wants an illiberal democracy. As a result, he wants to take advantage of the crisis of the coronavirus to suspend Parliament until further order and govern by decrees. Some would also like the German executive to take even more stringent measures. These fantasies must be clearly rejected. The current restrictions are the absolute exception and should remain so." The German Liberals therefore ask not to rule by decree. Here, the Belgian liberals say they want to rule by royal decree. I don't understand! Indeed, we could have taken many steps here in this Parliament, at all speed. It seems clear to me that if you needed a building permit or requisitions, you would have had our full support. You know that very well. We're not here to play small political games. There's an emergency. It's important! On this side, our posture is not that of other parties present here. I'm not saying the Walloons and the Flemish are spitting on each other. There is solidarity. Yes, urgent action must be taken. We will not be in this barren opposition. We want to be a constructive opposition and it is important to say so. Whatever the political trends, there is a debate and a fight to be waged on the ground. We're all here to support them. But I do not understand why we must decide today to delegate all of Parliament's powers for three to six months to the government, when we could very well have continued this debate here at Parliament level. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB will vote against these special powers, but will always be available to support other constructive measures in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u106	We must always beware of politicians who claim that they do not want to play political games. If politicians say so themselves or themselves, there is always a need to maintain a certain degree of distrust. This is a very objective remark. You know that I play my part with total impartiality. I give the floor to Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u107	Mr President, I did not originally intend to take the floor, but I am going to do so anyway. I am always very happy to listen to Mr Hedebouw, especially when he lists all the liberal and democratic principles. Unfortunately, not all communist regimes in history have respected that, if not there have been fewer deaths in history. What we must, of course, do is take extreme measures. Our country is experiencing a critical situation. Today we see that the number of corona virus infections has doubled in one day, from 600 yesterday to 1,200 today. So we are not yet at the end of this crisis. I think they who thought last week that we could resolve this with the ordinary parliamentary work with a government in current cases, going through the normal process of having discussions on texts here week after week, holding hearings in committees and thus moving forward, can store that illusion in the meantime. We need a government that, although it does not have a majority with the participating parties in Parliament, must be able to work, move forward and be able to rule vigorously. Today it is about public health, the elements that are needed, the discussions about the tests, the discussions about the mouth masks. It is also about socio-economic matters. We need to help people out of need. There were questions at the beginning of this meeting about the people who are losing their jobs, who need to stop their jobs, who need to be helped. People who have to stop a business should be helped. We have so far taken very linear measures: temporary unemployment, a bridging allowance for the self-employed, but over time we may need fine-tuning solutions in order to have a proper balance, to help those who have problems. However, we must also ensure that the basis of the economy is maintained and that those who can work continue to work. We must also take measures to this end. I don't want to get bogged down in the discussion about whether or not to send everyone home without any solution. Then I fear that we will not be able to pay the invoice that comes after us. The government will therefore have to adjust over time in various ways. Today it is in the field of public health and socio-economic matters. Next week it may be about security of supply or other elements. With this law, the Chamber of Representatives does indeed give some of our powers to the executive, which they take over. However, we do not just do that. A number of decisions that we have taken today in the margins of other meetings seriously respond to the concerns of some people that the parliament gives all the power. That is not the case. This is clear from the opinion of the Council of State. Everything that the government will do with the power of attorney decisions must be ratified by all of us within the year. This also means that there must be regular consultations between us, the Chamber of Representatives, and the government about how it deals with the implementation of the power of attorney law, which we will approve. On a proposal from our chairman, Mr Dewael, we made an important statement at the Conference of Presidents this afternoon by setting up a special and temporary parliamentary committee, which works like the other committees, but which will also, together with the government, follow up work under the power of attorney law. Anyone who can be present will be present. After all, you know how a parliamentary committee works with 17 members. One may be present as a member of the assembly in committee. So it is not going to be a story in which the government is consulted behind closed doors on Saturday morning. Everyone here is invited to that meeting. The seventeen members will do the follow-up. In itself, these measures respond to the existing criticism. A powerful tool is given to the government to govern. Fora and power are present to control and succeed the government. That is why my group will vote in favour of the current power of attorney law, with the confidence that the government will use those powers to do what is necessary to govern the country in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u108	Mr President, I have already said it this morning: exceptional times call for exceptional measures. That is why we will be voting on a power of attorney. That doesn't happen every day. Many colleagues have already said that it is important in times of crisis that rapid action and decisions can be taken. It is sometimes not possible to go through the whole parliamentary procedure if we want to make quick and firm decisions. In the interests of the safety and health of the people, in the interests of all our care staff, but also in the interests of our employees and companies, it will support the present law. That is not going to be a blank cheque, as some of you are saying today. The power of attorney law is limited in time and in powers. The sp.a has also specifically stated that no measures can be taken which could affect the purchasing power of families or existing social protection. In the broad sense, Mr Hedebouw, this is not just about the proposals you have mentioned. We will certainly see to that. It is certainly not the intention of Parliament to put itself out of play. Parliament actually has a very important role to play in the Corona crisis. Our controlling role is now more important than ever: we have to control what the government decides, we have to control how the government handles the powers of attorney and we also have to control all the other decisions taken by the government. We have already had a debate this afternoon on the number of mouth masks and protection, but also on the protection of the people placed in temporary unemployment. So Parliament is not technically unemployed, Members are perfectly able to table, propose, discuss and vote on legislative proposals. Perhaps the most important thing is this: it is not because we are constructive and because we understand the situation that the power of attorney law may or may be abused by the government. In this context, I repeat what I said this morning: I still do not understand why the government has taken the pharmaceutical law, which has already gone through a whole procedure in the committee, which has been approved and is ready to be discussed in plenary, off the agenda with the corona crisis as an argument, while the adoption of that legislative text would make many medicines for asthma, high blood pressure, epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, depression and certain cancers cheaper for the patient. Those who, in the midst of a health crisis, are obstructing a legislative text that would make the medicines cheaper for patients must question themselves and ask themselves what interests they serve. Does he serve the interests of the patients or those of the Big Pharma? Our party sp.a is constructive and understands that exceptional times require exceptional measures. The powers of attorney are exceptional. The Council of State was quite positive in its opinion. We supported some of the amendments in committee this morning which respond to the Council of State's technical comments. We will support the power of attorney law and at the same time take up our role in Parliament and continue to monitor the government and submit proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u109	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing has been said. On behalf of my group, I would simply like to express certain elements. The situation is grievous and demands that we be able to move forward urgently in the most effective way possible, both to manage this exceptional health crisis but also to manage the socio-economic crisis, which unfortunately is added to it. Deputy Prime Minister, this requires the government to move faster, stronger and more efficiently. The latest figures are by no means surprising and, unfortunately, the figures to come will not be surprising, even if they will, in any case in the coming days, certainly still be much more serious than those of today. Unfortunately, these are only the tip of the iceberg and do not reveal the total reality. Moving there faster, stronger and more effectively requires flexibility from the government, and it is true that these special powers allow for this flexibility and speed of action. It's obviously not a white-seing. This must be possible as a last resort and strictly conditioned in a specific framework, in exceptional circumstances, as is the case today, with powers that are limited to the management of the pandemic and its consequences, in a limited period of time and with guidance. The government cannot use these powers alone, but Parliament must be able to be involved in the use of these powers. This is the case, Mr. Chairman, with your initiative on the establishment of a standing committee to monitor the way in which the government uses its special powers in the context of this VOCID-19 crisis. This consultation, if I may, must not only be a consultation with Parliament. In essence, the government has an interest in building on field expertise. First, on the health crisis. Of course, you have set up task forces. At the same time, as we can see, the gap between paper procedures and the reality of the field is enormous. Use and rely on the daily reality of the field to be more effective in the health management of this crisis. This is a request that I would like to make here. On the socio-economic side, we also need field expertise. I know this expertise has been used by the government. You've had a lot of contact with the field, and in any case the big partners on the union side and on the employers' side. In fact, you have had a much stronger consultation with the social partners than with the carers. I hope that things can evolve and change positively on the health side. But I heard some people say we're going to do everything and anything with special powers. Let us also see how positive this can be, including socio-economically. It is true that we can sometimes be struck by the way in which, in some companies, confinement rules may not be sufficiently and properly respected. The fact that the government has special powers allows it to take a decree very quickly to increase the number of social inspectors. This number is very low today. In the province of Hainaut there are five, for a very large province – 1.2 to 1.3 million inhabitants. You have the ability, for example, to rapidly increase the number of inspectors who can go to ensure that containment is also properly respected in companies in critical sectors that continue to operate the country today. Of course, there must be no loopholes in the containment measures that the majority of Belgians respect today, and that respect is a good thing. When I see some shaking the red cloth by presenting the special powers as an anti-social device, I would simply like to say that it is possible for Parliament, together with the actors on the ground, to control and put pressure on the government to instil a positive collective dynamic. I have just given an example – and I could, of course, give other examples – with regard to the management of the health crisis. As I said, this trust in the government through special powers is not unlimited. Moreover, what the legislator is doing today, he can undo tomorrow. This does not mean that we will collectively refuse you three more months after the evaluation, but the responsibility of the government that obtains these special powers is also to respect the framework that is very clearly defined by the bill. We will therefore be vigilant about its implementation and respect. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, you will understand, these beacons and the exceptional circumstances that we are experiencing lead us to vote in favour of this legislation that grants special powers to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u110	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank, three weeks ago, I did not think I would have taken the floor here to defend the granting of special powers to a minority government of which my formation is not part. Three weeks ago, I would not have believed either that one third of humanity would be in quarantine, that planes would no longer fly, that borders would be closed, that streets and parliaments would be three quarters empty and that we should face what appears to be the most formidable collective test since the last war. We are living in exceptional times and it requires exceptional actions both in terms of public health and the sustainability of our socio-economic system. No doubt in the history of our country, the special powers – this process that must remain exceptional in a parliamentary democracy – will not have taken on such urgency because it is simply the life of our fellow citizens that is at stake. On technical matters, there are important legal and institutional safeguards that are in place: the obligation to circumscribe the matters for which these powers are granted, the compulsory consultation of the Council of State, the communication for information to the House, the fact that the decrees may amend a law but being confirmed by the legislative power within one year of their entry into force. While the situation is extremely serious and justifies exceptional measures, the balance between the three powers and the correlation between the continuity of the State and the prerogatives of Parliament remain essential foundations. I believe that this balance is respected in this text. We will be scrupulous but constructive partners in your action by keeping our freedom of speech and suggestion throughout this period. We hope that your Government, within the strict framework of the current crisis, will succeed and succeed in achieving this result of getting us out of this epidemic as soon as possible. In this regard, we call for urgent consideration of two measures. On the one hand, a greater development of tests for any person, caregiving or not, who is not on telework in this country. It is too late for massive screening that may have had its meaning at the beginning of the epidemic, but it is useful and relevant to identify those who are not confined. I believe that it is even an ingredient of an elementary social contract: either the state asks people to stay at home on telework, or it forces them to leave because their tasks are essential for everyday life and so at the very least these workers must be tested for their health and that of their entourage. In addition, we call for the establishment of a permanent monitoring system allowing, finally, to confront the needs identified on the ground in terms of equipment – one can speak of the famous masks desired by the medical profession – in order to have a real eye on the current orders and stocks. In this connection, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a parenthesis. We'll be loyal, but we won't be amnesia. Like everyone else, I know that time is not controversial. We have neither the time nor the means. However, I would like to make it very clear, on behalf of my group, in the light of the information which is growing, that in no case is this granting of special powers tantamount to a discharge or discharge of the previous government's balance sheet, in particular with regard to the management of health care and its financing. Because the facts are there. No, our country was not prepared to deal with this pandemic. You will tell me that the neighbouring countries either; that is true. But that's not a reason, it's not an excuse. How is it possible that, in a country like ours, even today, as we speak, there is a shortage of masks and equipment in general to protect not only health care workers in hospitals, but also home nurses or simply caregivers who work outside? During a whole legislature, our country has, at the very least, disinvested in its health care, with consequences that are sometimes not visible to the general public, but yet heavy. To the extent that we find today that our country has not considered it useful to maintain a strategic mask reserve. I trust this government's ability to get out of this crisis. But then we'll have to investigate and understand how we got there. In addition to that, ladies and gentlemen, there is a more collective responsibility that binds us all. For let us be careful: this health crisis has surprised and quenched the whole world. Apart from a few Asian countries that, because they have been confronted with a previous epidemic, have been able to react, we have all been overtaken. May this crisis emerge from a certain nonchalance and allow us to govern otherwise! We don't just need managers. We also need visionaries. Politics is not only about adding revenue and expenditure columns, it is also about anticipating the world as it will be tomorrow. It's not just a matter of numbers, it's also a matter of imagination. If we all make mistakes, what will grow up is what we will do with it. Finally, I would like to stress how much this period of containment also highlights a largely structural phenomenon of our societies, namely the real and growing inequality within our population. Even with such a unique threat, as universal as this VOCID-19, which can strike the richest as the poorest, we realize that we are completely unequal. We are unequal because, depending on the country where we fall ill, we can be cared for or not. Unequal to about forty that is not similar to living if we are in a villa four facades or a modest apartment. We are also unequal, as we have seen, in the face of difficult tasks. Some can telework and others have to stay in the field. We all find that these are absolutely essential and indispensable. If tomorrow we want to preserve both economic liberalism and the welfare state, our policies will have to be urgently aimed at reducing that divide. It is now time, ladies and gentlemen, to come together on one goal: to fight with all our strength against the spread of this VOCID-19 and to provide all the logistical and financial support to the medical and hospital care staff, the nurses, those who are in the front line and without weapons, and to whom we all must already express our infinite gratitude. Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is in this spirit of seriousness and hope that the DéFI Group will give its vote to this enabling law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u111	Mr President, the coronavirus is no excuse for a lockdown of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not my words, but the words of the Socialist leader in the European Parliament, Mrs Iratxe Garcia Pérez. It is dangerous to be critical in times of crisis. After all, the citizens have something other than political power games at their head. But just because this health crisis completely demands people's attention, a critical look is important in these exceptional circumstances. Emergency may break the law, but it must not undermine democracy. In the last few weeks, Parliament has been eliminated three times. First, after a debate with 12 of its 150 MEPs in this hemisphere, this Parliament gave confidence to an emergency government with the smallest minority and the greatest tolerance ever given in our 190-year Belgian history. Wilmès II rules with a minority of 38 seats, awarded on the basis of the elections of six years ago, 25 May 2014, and with blue ministers of second-class garnishment, except for a few exceptions. It is as if the elections of 26 May 2019 never took place. Last Sunday, ten party chairmen decided to take Parliament out of play and pull the white sheet completely. The party bounces gave themselves a seat in the weekly supercore. This junta is composed of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers, nine party chairmen and one group leader of this Chamber, and dictates the implementation of the powers of attorney. This ten-year-old club has no democratic legitimacy, Mr President, nor is it included in the new power of attorney law, so that we can only conclude that this is a soft coup d'état, a putsch of power-hungry political parties, with the party chairmen at the buttons. There are barely three MPs in this ten-year-old club. Georges-Louis Bouchez, chairman of the MR, was not even elected on 26 May 2019 and had to be co-opted in the Senate. One member, Joachim Coens, president of CD&V, didn't even participate in the election last year. Two parties were excluded, but the Ecolo-Groen Parliamentary Group managed to delegate two representatives to the Saturday superclub. They immediately put forward fifty proposals that they will explain and defend on the supercore with the two of them. Should I say, Mr Calvo, with the right of veto? Independent MEPs cannot do that, but non-elected party chairmen can do it. Where has our democracy gone? May I remind this House that party chairmen are elected by the party members to lead their party, not to govern the country? On the other hand, MEPs are elected by all Belgians to represent them here. This is no longer parliamentary democracy, but pure participation, a dictatorship of the parties, where the ballot of 26 May does not count but the party member card. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't stop wondering if these powers of attorney are really necessary. After all, we see that the Flemish Government is perfectly fighting the crisis without powers of attorney. Today we are being asked to give this lilliputter government far-reaching powers without determining how this Parliament will exercise any control. It's like asking a student from the driving school to drive a rally while the driving instructor is blindfolded and muzzled in the back seat. At the same time, the judicial review of the Council of State is now being abolished in part in an impudent manner. That is not surprising when I see that the Council of State in its opinion insinuates that the proposers should actually do their homework again. According to the Council of State, the delegation of power of the party chairmen goes a long way. For example, he openly wondered whether the law of proxy was compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read what the Council has written in its opinion. It warns of possible interference in private and family life, in freedom of thought, conscience and religion, in freedom of expression and in freedom of association. The Council of State also notes that the majority of the articles are too broad-based. He also notes that the possible extension provided for in the law on powers of attorney is unconstitutional in several areas. He noted that there was a contradiction between the explanatory memorandum and the proposed articles of law, that there were problems with determining the constitutional basis of jurisdiction, problems with ratifications, with deadlines for implementation and even with penalties. With such a diagnosis, ladies and gentlemen, we normally end up in the palliative care department. With the powers of attorney and the supercore, you are setting yourself double checkmate, fellow Members of Parliament. You'll be muzzled and put in a straitjacket. Soon you'll be mummified and placed in a cryo room. Then you can be thawed if it suits the party presidents. I understand very well, ladies and gentlemen, that you will approve these powers of attorney. In times of fear and emotion, an opposing voice will soon be translated as if one were sabotaging the fight against the coronavirus. In short term, perception is always more important than truth in politics. I also know very well that anyone who ignores the dictatorship of his party chairman will become a pariah. He's being quarantined like he's infected with the virus of unreliableity. Then there is the bread robbery when drawing up the electoral lists for the next election. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, I am an expert in this matter. Listen carefully, Mr Calvo, in times of crisis, in addition to emotion and fear, courage is needed. A healthy portion of ratio and a lot of common sense. I ask you to be particularly vigilant, ladies and gentlemen. What you are approving here today is a blank cheque. It is not a question of special powers of attorney, but of extraordinary powers of attorney. It's the first time this has happened since World War II. Remember that you are now handing over the legislative power to the executive. In an exceptional state, the true sovereign appears, says the right-wing philosopher Carl Schmitt in his Political Theology. The true sovereign in this country is now a wreath of party presidents. They determine all agreements, and there is no legal procedure to control them. Those who have the power to lift the rule of law really have the power. Ladies and gentlemen, I am counting on you to rectify within three months what you have given today to a shady, Saturday superclub, namely the sovereignty of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u112	Mr President, there is a great temptation to respond to different speeches, but I will confine myself to the essence. I fully understand the warnings given by my fellow Members in this debate. I have less sympathy with those Members who are very strongly opposed to what is going on here today. I share a number of concerns, but our group can only support this. It's a matter of being consistent. One cannot, on the one hand, ask the government to act more quickly and efficiently against corona and, on the other hand, deny it this possibility. It is not possible to say 'conflict makes power' and at the same time to pretend that we are experiencing normal times in which we are having the debate for the debate. Yes, the warnings are correct, but the choice of the ten parties to do so is, in my opinion, at this stage of corona, the moment when people are concerned about a shortage of beds in intensive care, the logical choice. It's also the bravest choice. It is less comfortable than the choice made by some here, those who suddenly become the representatives of parliamentary democracy and are not very active in this House. The people who are taking the risk today and sitting at the negotiating table show a form of courage. Mr Dedecker, that courage is even many times smaller than the courage of the people on the ground. You are not the only one who is concerned about parliamentary democracy. Mr Hedebouw, with all sympathy, but you are not the only Member with a strong left-wing and social conviction. In recent years, our group has opposed the Swedish Government with a great deal of passion and conviction. If, however, the present government parties show a willingness to sit around the table in these difficult times, then we will go into that outstretched hand, not to do the same thing, but to adjust things as well. In fact, we have already shown that today. In the banking story, there was originally no attention to the non-profit. Well, that was put on the table by my Ecolo-Greens colleagues and some concerns have been expressed. Minister De Croo has committed himself to doing so. I think that is a serious parliamentary work. Besides, that is not parliamentary work in the back rooms, Mr Dedecker. That was done this afternoon in the Finance Committee. Several colleagues who today are committed to parliamentary democracy have failed to attend that committee. This afternoon, a bank deal for several billion euros was discussed, publicly streamed on the Chamber's website. We could discuss this with all of us, not with the party chairmen, but with representatives of the people. However, the heralds of parliamentary democracy were absent. Their contribution to that debate was nil.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u113	Mr Calvo, I would like to make a few points. After all, I have been here for 20 years, albeit with some interruptions. Today, I dare to speak on the basis of what I have been through here. I have already experienced a number of crises here, especially health crises. The first was the dioxin crisis. During the dioxin crisis, 20 million chickens died, costing the community half a billion euros. It's only caused a few suicides among poultry farmers. However, that crisis brought Open Vld to power, of which I myself was at the time, so I know very well what it's like. Other crises I mention are SARS and mad cow disease. I now turn to the Socialists, sitting across the street. I've also been through the Mexican flu. At that time, Mrs. Laurette Onkelinx was Minister of Health. I heard Mr Hedebouw here a few weeks ago about GlaxoSmithKline. GSK is in Mrs. Onkelinx's backyard. At the time they ordered EUR 108 million in vaccines for the Mexican flu and mouth masks for 12.7 million inhabitants. What happened to the Mexican flu? Nothing. At that time, too, special powers were given to the government here in Parliament, which is why I am somewhat suspicious of those special powers, Mr Calvo. What happened to those vaccines? You can read that in the book of the Court of Auditors: 9 million were destroyed, for an amount of 85 million euros. I've been hearing palaves all afternoon about mouth masks. There were 4.7 million mouth masks left at the time. Where have they been stored? On an army base. They went to look a few months ago and they were destroyed. Mr Calvo, I really wouldn't be grinning. I hope you do your job. As an appendix to Ecolo, you may do so, because it is your sole reason for existence. It's also the only reason for your lilliputter party right now. I won't talk about the little ones, because I belong to them myself. I hope you can join us. As a parliamentarians, I have the right to be suspicious of the granting of special powers, especially when I know that you have abused them in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u114	Mr President, we must have a little dignity in this House! There are people dying! A little respect for people who suffer!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u115	Mr Laaouej, what does that have to do with anything? I may have more respect than you do. I have more respect than you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u116	Mr Calvo, continue with your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u117	It's obvious! A little dignity!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u118	Mr President, I would certainly like to endorse Mr Laaouej's last appeal. On the other hand, I welcome Mr Dedecker's speech. It helps us to better understand his attitude and his speech. Actually, it's a big mea culpa. You say that when I was a majority Member of Parliament, when I was a member of a party, I was allowed to act as a representative of the people. I didn't do my job well at the time. In those files, I left those powers of attorney, in order to challenge those party chairmen sufficiently. I understand your attitude better now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u119	If you say this, Mr Calvo, you will have to read the minutes of the meetings at that time. No, Mr Calvo, I was also in the opposition at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calvo has the floor, as the second of his group. He would close briefly, we will not have polemics ad vitam aeternam. Let us keep it serene and calm, for the circumstances outside require us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u121	Absolutely. That brings me to the second point of my brief statement. Indeed, at this stage Parliament is also deciding a great deal. In fact, it has to a large extent in its own hands the role it plays in this crisis. That is why I am pleased that this weekly agreement has been made on this special committee. I think this is necessary. Earlier this week there was less enthusiasm for that, but I am glad that we have taken steps in this week and are able to install that committee today. I want to make it clear to the government that Parliament can play the ball briefly. In addition to working with powers of attorney, we can work as with today's file. I do not think Mr De Croo has to complain about the speed with which Parliament has dealt with this. So Parliament also shows that it can be forceful. In fact, we have shown this on a regular basis in current cases with a minority government. More agreements were concluded in this Parliament than agreements were concluded between party chairmen or between the entities of that country. I would like to ask the government to work very actively with this willingness, which is widely present in Parliament. I refer very briefly to the proposals to which some Members have already referred. These are proposals that our group in Parliament wants to put to work, and they also deserve your attention, Minister. It is not possible for job seekers to see their benefits fall even further during this period; it cannot be that masks do not reach the people who need them; it cannot be that there are usury prices for certain products; it cannot be that there are many people in temporary unemployment and at the same time there is a shortage in certain sectors. That is why many solutions are emerging in Parliament, and I hope that we will be able to work together on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u122	Mr Clarinval, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the messages, questions and comments this morning in committee and again here, for more than two hours, in plenary. On behalf of the government, I can assure you that we will take this into account. I would like once again to thank the Members present for their support for our request for special powers. These are justified by the seriousness of the situation and the exceptional circumstances in which we must act today. The Law of Special Powers provides for several beacons. I can understand some of the fears expressed here by many of you. However, these beacons are well present, and I will remind them quickly. First, the special powers granted to respond to the pandemic or epidemic are for three months, at the end of which it will be up to this noble assembly to consider whether or not to extend them. Thereafter, the decrees made under the special powers will be confirmed by law within a maximum period of one year. Earlier, in the Conference of Presidents, I heard our President say that he wanted us to go as soon as possible to examine these by-laws. So, the one-year deadline is a maximum. Furthermore, as I said, Parliament retains its prerogatives during the period of special powers. In other words, other bills and bills will be considered as required. In fact, my colleague is going to tell you about a text that has been drawn up within this framework. I also heard earlier that the Conference of Presidents, through an ad hoc committee, has demonstrated the follow-up and information that the government will bring to Parliament throughout the period of special powers. Another beacon is added. This is the Council of State, which will be consulted, as was recalled earlier. Mr Hedebouw pointed out in his opinion that the beacons we have put in order to respond to emergencies, but did not allow structural reforms, Mr Hedebouw. Like the Council of State, we therefore believe that the text before you is an assignment of powers to the King, justified by the circumstances. The Council of State also recalls that the conditions for special powers, particularly in the light of higher standards such as the Constitution, international law and special laws, are present. This law must be used to take urgent legislative measures. It must make it possible to operate more effectively in the context of the crisis that we are experiencing and, in the political situation that is ours, to assert a suitable way of functioning. And it does not serve, as I have heard several times, to take ideological or structural measures. To say this is simply contrary to what is written in the law, but it is also contrary to our intentions. Ladies and gentlemen, the government will assume its responsibilities to operate the special powers entrusted to it, in accordance with the beacons you have set for it. I would like to answer one of Mrs Kitir's questions in committee earlier. I did not reply, but this one asks me again about it. I'm talking about the pharma law. It is not at all the subject of debate here. It can be discussed in other frameworks. In my opinion, it would be helpful if contact were made with the Minister of Health. But we will not talk about the Pharma law under special powers, so that things are clear. Mr. Speaker, here is a summary of the message that the government wanted to deliver to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u124	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. The bill has been split by the commission pursuant to Rule 72(2), paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. The draft law was split by the committee pursuant to Rule 72, No. 2nd paragraph of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u125	We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1104/5 (matter referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1104/5) We begin with the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1104/5 (matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1104/5) The title has been amended by the committee in the proposal for a law enabling the King to take measures to combat the spread of coronavirus VOCID-19 (I) [["]] The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law authorising the King to take measures to combat the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19 (I) '. The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We turn to the articles of Bill No. 1104/6 (matter referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1104/6) We begin with the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1104/6 (matters referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1104/6) The title has been amended by the committee in the proposal for a law enabling the King to take measures to combat the spread of coronavirus VOCID-19 (II) [["]] The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law authorising the King to take action in the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus (II) '. The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u127	Annex V.Part • 14.... Dries Van Langenhove cs (1104/7) • 15.... Dries Van Langenhove cs (1104/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u128	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u129	Sustained: the amendments and Article 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u130	Article adopted by article: 1 to 4 and 6 to 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting on the amendments in a first round. We shall see what the result of that vote is. Then, taking into account the outcome of the vote on the amendments, we will vote on the whole of the proposals in the order set out in the agenda in a second round. In this way we limit the votes to two rounds of voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u132	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u133	The votes are all here in the hemisphere. The political groups will be called upon to vote here one by one, as has already been said. I am counting on the discipline that each group imposes on itself to ensure that this is done correctly, given the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u134	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Egbert Lachaert, Benoît Piedboeuf, Steven Mathei.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. We have considered this proposal and given it urgency. The Committee on Finance and the Budget has now completed its examination of this proposal. I give the floor to Mr Bertels for his report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to give a concise but thorough report on the discussion in the Finance Committee this afternoon of the bill by Mr Lachaert, Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Leysen authorising the King to provide a state guarantee on certain credits in the fight against the effects of the coronavirus and amending the law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies. After all, it is not an ordinary bill. This is a possible state guarantee of EUR 50 billion. I would like to make a thorough report because the Minister himself asked that some of his commitments be included in the discussion and written down in the report. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to ensure that the statements made by all the Members who have taken the floor are brought to their attention. The general discussion of the legislative proposal begins with an introductory statement by Mr Leysen on the health crisis and the socio-economic crisis of today as well as the need to safeguard the financing of families, self-employed persons, businesses and non-profit organisations. The agreement of 22 March 2020 with the financial sector is an important element. This agreement also includes a guarantee scheme and a distribution of the burden of the guarantee scheme between the financial sector and the public authorities. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to authorise the King to introduce a State guarantee scheme in consultation and consultation with the European Commission, taking into account the issue of irregular state aid. In the first round of discussions, Mr Crombez stressed the need for peace and security. This proposal may contribute to this. For the sp.a Group, it is essential that the system is organised in such a way that all economically sound companies, SMEs and self-employed persons can obtain liquidity. We must do better than at the time of the banking crisis, when too many companies, the self-employed and SMEs who were otherwise healthy were still denied loans. In this connection, he refers in particular to Amendment No. 3 of himself and myself, which deals with the need for monitoring in order to actually see what is happening on the ground in the real economy and to report refusals of credit applications to the FPS Economy, after which, in certain cases, they can be delivered to Belfius, the bank in the hands of the Belgian State, for a possible re-evaluation. This must ensure that healthy businesses do not slip through the loopholes and go bankrupt. Amendment No 4 of the same authors clarifies the time frame for the loans provided for in the proposal. In the same first round, Mr Loones stressed the importance of the banking agreement, in which the part of the guarantee scheme was important both for our economy and for the stability of our financial system itself. Good legal coverage is essential, as is the speed of work. He also stressed the importance of reaching the right target group, in particular all companies that were intrinsically healthy. The aid must be sufficient. In the future, it will have to be seen whether what we now foresee is sufficient. Mr Gilkinet in turn pointed out that his group could support the principle of the law. His group, like others, attaches great importance to not forgetting the non-profit sector. He refers to Amendment No. 5. In view of the speed with which this proposal is to be adopted, vigilance is also needed. What criteria will the banks apply when assessing the applications for credit? How can a permanent dialogue between Parliament and the government be established? In the same first round, Mr Laaouej also stressed the importance and necessity of the proposal and also the importance of the implementing act, which would follow. He asked about the strategy that the government would pursue, and about the link with possible or announced European measures. He also asked for coherence with European measures or measures taken by neighbouring countries. Like previous speakers, he also stressed the importance of ensuring that the appropriations were put where they were needed. He supported Amendment No. 3 of sp.a with respect to monitoring. He also stressed the importance of SMEs in our economy and asked for clarification on private mortgage loans, on the non-profit sector and on the concept of credit institutions. Finally, he pointed out possible budgetary consequences and the possible impact on Belgium's debt position and interest rates. Mr Ravyts also stressed the importance of the banking agreement and its financing for our economy. He also asks how Parliament is involved. He also asked about the involvement of Europe. Finally, he asked what the Minister meant by his announcement that the FPIM should take an initiative in certain areas, a subject which was outside the scope of the legislative proposal itself. Mr De Vuyst welcomed the fact that a banking agreement had been reached. But he regretted that the terms of the agreement were not in the law. He thinks that's a shortcoming. He referred to his amendment on the subject, as well as to an amendment to impose conditions on companies receiving loans, especially on redundancies. Mr Arens stressed the need to include the non-profit sector and to involve Parliament further. At the end of the first round, Mr Vanbesien and Mr Ben Achor asked a few specific questions about the companies covered by the system, the capital rules in force and the distribution of dividends. In his reply, the Minister addressed the questions and comments raised in detail and in detail. He thanked Parliament for the special parliamentary procedure. Everything happens here in one day, but giving certainty is necessary in terms of health, jobs, finances, and the guarantee scheme provided for is essential for our economic fabric and lending. He is satisfied with the agreement with Febelfin. The banking sector shows not only words here, but also actions. The Minister agrees to work through the Central Bank for credit to enterprises and also to report and monitor the refusals to grant credit here on a monthly basis. He'll take care of it by decision. Each bank has its own evaluation criteria, that of precorona times in principle. But there will also be evaluation and monitoring here. There are many matters to be settled in the royal decree. This is inevitable because there are still agreements to be made with the European Commission. The banking agreement is clearly the framework. The Minister is also committed to explaining the royal decision in committee. The Minister also makes it clear that the non-profit sector is involved, and he therefore agrees with the amendment in question. The overall strategy is to avoid a domino effect, which would be negative, and to prevent the economy from collapsing, which could have a final impact on interest rates. Private mortgage loans are included in the banking agreement. There are currently no such persons, but for example, some leasing companies that also finance could be included. FPIM's activities are outside the scope of this law, but it could be used, for example, for the aviation sector, inter alia, to maintain employment in our country. Finally, the Minister pointed out that a European Council was held today on the European Stability Mechanism and the need for coordination of measures. The intention of the proposal is to provide for working capital and strengthen it, hence the difference in duration of loans with France, for example. As far as dividends are concerned, he agreed with Mr Ben Accour's view. In the second round, which I will not deal with extensively, several speakers expressed their appreciation for the various commitments made by the Minister. Some also explained their conditional aid. I have my amendment No. 3 withdrawn in response to the Minister's commitment to the decision to extend the operation of the credit centre and the monthly reporting. The vote was taken on Amendments Nos. 4, 5 and 6. Amendment No 4 by the sp.a Group, Amendment No 4 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Amendment No 4 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Amendment No 4 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Amendment No 4 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Amendment No 4 by the Group of the European In the final vote on the proposal, 16 votes in favour with 1 against. There were no abstinences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u137	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bertels for his detailed and correct report. What we discussed this morning in committee and this afternoon here in plenary is very important. It is about people who are struggling to pay their loans and about companies that have too little credit to cover this difficult period. We are providing solutions to this, and we are doing so very quickly. This bill has been considered today, then voted on in committee and will be voted on in plenary. Next week the law can then be implemented, so that all this can enter into force at the beginning of April. So we prove that Parliament can work very quickly if there is a crisis. That's what's needed. We also prove that there is cooperation in the event of a crisis. The discussion in committee was very useful. The text has been refined and there have been additional amendments and commitments. Amendment now includes the target group of this measure in the law. After all, it is good to provide that certainty. The timing of the proposal is also now being incorporated into the law. It is good that a legal basis is provided. In addition to these amendments, there were commitments and it is important that we emphasise them in plenary. After all, they were important commitments of the Minister, and that is a credit to him. For example, there is the commitment to come to Parliament with the implementing decision before it is introduced. There was also the commitment to monitor and monitor the outcome of this legislation. Parliament will be involved so that we can see whether the money actually ends up where it needs to be. These amendments and commitments point to good cooperation here in Parliament, but also in the field. Compared to other European countries, a system has been developed in which banks themselves want to take a significant part of the risk on their own shoulders. We'll have to monitor how that works, but at least it's an important difference. It is to their credit that they want to take that responsibility. Will this work and will it suffice? In any case, the commitment is strong, because it amounts to 10% of GDP, about 50 billion implicit public debt that we are dealing with here. It will be our job and that of the government to ensure that the money reaches the entrepreneurs who need it. In doing so, this first-loss guarantee, the risk-sharing, will be the most important point in the assessment. There is a risk that the banks may be a little too reluctant because they know that they will provide risky loans. On the other hand, we must ensure that the companies get the money. In any case, this will be the specific focus for Parliament. Mr President, this is a very special law, not only because it is closed in a crisis period, but also because we are giving the government wide powers and mandates to implement it by royal decision. We have framed this through amendments and commitments, but the authorisation remains very broad. However, it is not because one is allowed to do something, that one should do it. The government can decide without Parliament, but that does not mean that the government is obliged to decide without Parliament. We really want to launch this appeal: if there is the possibility of not working through a royal decree, but of fully providing for legislation in the Chamber, that will remain the strongest guarantee, the strongest guarantee on the market. The government can, if necessary, work with royal decisions, but we are at our disposal to serve Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u138	Mr President, this is a first concrete, important and necessary step which will be voted on by this Parliament in a few minutes' time to support the economic world. By the way, it is a demonstration of the usefulness, of the need for a federal state, in this case strong, capable of mobilising resources and assisting the economic sector in order to avoid bankruptcies, job losses, drama within families by mobilising a guarantee of EUR 50 billion. I hear a lot of colleagues questioning the importance of investing in a state, of maintaining a strong federal state. We can reassure ourselves and say that we are able, under the exceptional circumstances that we are experiencing, to react quickly and strongly. An evaluation will be required to determine whether the response is strong enough. These measures are decided in a context of urgency, with very short deadlines, an extremely broad delegation to the government that justifies all our vigilance and all the questions we have asked about its content. In committee, I stressed the quality, despite the circumstances, of the dialogue we have had with the minister and the government. This dialogue has made it possible to adjust certain elements of the text, with commitments that I want to believe, which have already been reflected, for some in amendments to the text, by commitments on monitoring the system. It is not annoyance to commit EUR 50 billion. It will be necessary to ensure that this amount is used properly and that it benefits those sectors that actually need it. There will be a need for close monitoring of bank lending practices to businesses that will need to make good choices. It will also be necessary to provide remedies for companies that have been left out. We have also called for a capacity for close legislative follow-up, since many decisions will have to be taken by royal decrees. The minister undertook to come to Parliament next week to present the content of these royal orders. This is fundamental to us. And above all, and it was essential for environmentalists – as we have said and repeated several times over the last few days – the text, thanks to an amendment that we tabled and which was unanimously supported, will also aim to provide banking guarantees to non-market players. In this context of crisis, this sector plays a crucial role, be it in the health care sector, in helping people, and in all the non-profit organisations. This is also the case in our everyday lives, without a health crisis. We were already convinced to support this text, for reasons of support for the economic sector, with particular attention, in our head, to SMEs and the self-employed. You will understand that we are all the more so because of this amendment, which has been voted on and which we will monitor very carefully the implementation of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u139	Mr President, to support the real economy is an urgent necessity in the face of the health crisis which we face under the tragic conditions. If we do not want the health crisis to be negatively coupled with an economic and social crisis, we must act quickly and effectively to ensure that our economic and therefore social fabric can overcome this ordeal. That is why the government has committed itself, with certain players in the financial sector, with the support of the National Bank, to ensuring that our companies can continue to obtain financing and loans. This concerns our companies, whether they are in the form of companies or independents. They will also be able to rely on a rescheduling, a postponement of repayments. This also applies to individuals, households, and their mortgages. This will strengthen our economic system. At the same time, the state is making a huge commitment: 50 billion euros, it is not a mess. We look forward to the Royal Decree implementing the agreement with the financial sector. The Minister undertook in committee to inform Parliament as soon as possible of the content of this order. Nevertheless, we want to take on our responsibilities and we are going to pass this enabling legislation that gives the government a fairly broad power. That is why the implementation of this enabling law will have to be monitored. The minister has committed himself to this and I have no doubt that this commitment made in committee will be repeated here in plenary. I must also welcome the extension of the system to enterprises in the non-market sector. As I said, the non-market sector is a component of the economy. The economy is the production of goods and services that meet the needs of the population and is therefore one aspect of our economic system. It is good that it can also benefit from this State guarantee and from the postponement of the repayment deadlines. There is still a series of questions that arise. What is meant by "companies treated as credit institutions"? The minister referred to a number of things in committee and I refer to the work. I was concerned about the potential budgetary implications. That is why I have taken note of the setting up of a monitoring, as far as possible, which will first make sure to identify the number of appropriations involved – and therefore to see how these appropriations evolve – and which guarantee commitments must finally be triggered. We will see more broadly and macroeconomically the evolution of interest rates. At the same time, is this $50 billion guarantee not intended to prevent us from having, with regard to our financial system – which is known that, because of Basel II and Basel III, capital requirements have increased, which means that the solvency of banks is greater – a solvency problem or even liquidity in the head of banks? Mr President, we now need an assessment and an appointment with the Minister in the Finance Committee to explain how he has implemented this enabling legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also one of the heralds of parliamentary democracy, as Mr Calvo has just described. I was indeed present in the Committee on Finance and the Budget and I cooperated constructively in the discussion of this bill. It may be vain hope, but the simple schemes used in this hemisphere sometimes defy all imagination. Minister, the guarantee scheme of 10% of GDP, EUR 50 billion implicit debt, is truly a proverbial bazooka. This is indeed proportionate in line with the guarantee arrangements in neighbouring countries and is certainly an important signal in terms of the economic fabric. We hear almost every so many hours saying that the costs amount to millions of euros. Our way of working here today is spectacular, but it doesn't come too soon. Together with my colleagues, I look forward to the follow-up story, namely the implementing decision, for which you have committed yourself to coming to committee with it. A lot of things are dealt with through that royal decree. I understand that discussions are still ongoing with the European Commission, but this can be finalised very soon. I welcome the ongoing monitoring, albeit through the aggregated figures, which several colleagues have called for and have even translated into amendments in this area. Not directly in the margin, but independently of the guarantee scheme for companies, mortgage holders are of course an important focus. I've been told that everything would come into effect tomorrow. Argenta, for example, has announced that there is still ongoing discussions in the sector on the modalities. The measures should actually start tomorrow. I am, of course, looking forward to the objective criteria that all banks would apply together, for example on the postponement of mortgage repayments. I agree, of course, that you have implicitly said in advance that banks are best not to let out too much capital at the moment, because the buffers may need to be addressed. They best keep as much liquidity as possible. This is, of course, about the question of dividends, Minister. In any case, Parliament must look very closely at the implementing decision and the selection criteria used: which companies are eligible and which are not? The Flemish Interest will fully support the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u141	Mr President, it has been said many times here today that it is exceptional times that require exceptional measures. What is now before us is one of those exceptional measures. It is about a state guarantee of as much as EUR 50 billion. In addition to other economic measures, such as the right of bridging, temporary unemployment and tax deferral, this is a very important element for economic recovery or for preventing economic catastrophes. A large number of companies, non-profit institutions and self-employed persons have not been sufficiently helped by the measures already taken or have to deal with a large number of fixed costs which they are currently facing. It is very important for them to be able to conclude loans quickly. At this time of economic difficulty, this is not very obvious. That is why the EUR 50 billion in state guarantee is important. It is also important that rules of the game are laid down. They are in agreement with the banks, in the explanatory memorandum of the bill and also in the law itself. They are further elaborated in the royal decree. For us it is indeed important that we are talking about viable companies, that a maximum interest rate has been agreed and that the deadline is fixed, namely until 30 September and for a maximum of 12 months, possibly renewable if the situation makes it necessary. Last but not least, the banks are also part of the risk and costs. This is a special procedure, a quick way of getting this bill adopted, together with the extensive royal decision to follow after validation by the European Commission. We are certainly pleased that the Minister has confirmed that the royal decision will be drawn up in close consultation with Parliament, with the Finance Committee, and that the credit centre will report on the loans that have been made and refused. Our group will therefore fully support this bill because it is necessary and essential. In these uncertain times, banks must be able to provide necessary loans to our companies, the self-employed and non-profit institutions in an easy way. In this way, this is an essential link in economic support measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u142	Mr President, as I said earlier in committee, we naturally agree that an agreement was reached between the public authorities and the banking sector to provide for that guarantee fund. There is also the opportunity offered to many families, self-employed persons and SMEs to take a breath. For example, families will be granted a deferred payment of mortgage loans until 30 September. In addition, many companies are prevented from getting into liquidity problems and from having a domino effect, as the government intervenes to encourage banks to lend credit to companies, thus avoiding the corona crisis becoming a severe economic crisis. With that agreement, the banks are taken in the bathtub. They are called up to 3 % to absorb losses. In this sense, the banking sector may now be doing something back for the community, where in 2008 we were ready with tens of billions of euros to save the banking sector from a financial failure. The working population has had to pay for this with ten years of incessant savings. It's a little side jump. I note, as my fellow Members have said, that we will be able to complete the entire parliamentary work on half a day: consideration at the start of the plenary session, discussion in committee and now again here, with the vote on this legislative proposal in the near future. In half a day's time, EUR 50 billion will be released so that the banks could continue to lend. Five months ago, however, we palavered for a very long time and discussed how to allocate EUR 400 million to the healthcare sector. The barn was too small, especially for the right-wing parties. It was irresponsible, and what do I remember? By the way, those are the people who are saving lives now. EUR 400 million for the care, murder and fire were shouted about, but a half-day budget of EUR 50 billion is not a problem, it is being cut short. However, we also believe that the agreement concluded is good and necessary to help all the self-employed, families and SMEs to get through the crisis. However, we think it is a punishment that there is a heavenly difference between the agreement and the bill. The bill does not include any condition or modality of the agreement. We have a fundamental problem with that. The only thing in it is the maximum budget of EUR 50 billion, for which the government guarantees. The agreement states that the banks are eligible for the first 3 % that would be lost if companies did not repay loans. So the banks would wear them themselves. However, that is not in the bill. The agreement states that it may be a maximum of EUR 50 million per loan, but that is not stated in the legislative proposal. The agreement states that the maximum interest rate on loans may be 1.25 %, but that is not stated in the legislative proposal. What does the bill say? Article 2 states that the government will determine the conditions and modalities of the State guarantee. In other words, the present proposal has nothing to do with the agreement that has been concluded. Literally, the legislative proposal is simply a blank cheque of EUR 50 billion, on the basis of which the government itself can decide under what conditions and with what modalities the guarantee fund can be set up. I noticed in committee that some of my colleagues were struggling with this, because some of them have withdrawn as co-author. I suspect it has something to do with that. We have responded to the concern we had by submitting ourselves an amendment which effectively integrates the text of the agreement agreed between the Minister and the banking sector into the legislative proposal. That makes sense to me. At present, it is explained in detail in the explanatory memorandum, but it is not included in the legislative proposal. Unfortunately, the amendment has not been accepted. We are very sorry about that. What do we find unfortunate? If the government allows a guarantee on loans granted to companies by the banking sector, no conditions are attached. That is why we also want to build a lock to ensure that companies wishing to make use of a State guarantee loan do not make redundancies for economic reasons or for collective redundancies. It is logical that we should include this in the bill, also in order to protect workers' income. One can intervene as a taxpayer to ensure that companies do not go overboard, but these companies will in turn have to ensure that, if they want to make use of it, the workers they employ can continue to have their income, their purchasing power, which is important to keep the economic engine running. We agree with guarantees for companies and many SMEs, but we would have liked to have seen this for the workers. Unfortunately, that amendment was also voted down. I've also seen that the bill has been improved. A number of amendments have been adopted. For example, the non-profit sector is included as one of the beneficiaries of the credits. They are also captured by the Guarantee Fund, which is a good thing. Once again, PVDA-PTB believes that this guarantee should be provided, but that is not a justification for the government's ability to decide at its own discretion what to do with that guarantee fund. It is charming to hear from the minister that he can come to the committee to explain the royal decision, but nothing obliges him to come to the committee. This means that we continue to have a fundamental problem, as well as the total lack of guarantee for the maintenance of employment. That is why we will not approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u143	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would just like to make it clear that no co-sponsor of the bill has removed his name. There was, at the core, an error in the services which had been based on the bill to grant special powers. I repeat that there is no withdrawal of co-sponsors. A correction was simply made because the secretariat of the commission had, as a matter of urgency, copied the names of the authors of the bill granting special powers. As chairman of the committee, I can say that there is no question of a political will or act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u144	Thank you, Mr Bertels, for the report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for the special and constructive meeting of the Finance Committee, where, as Mr Loones said, certain commitments were made. You know that crises are challenges. These are the words of Napoleon, who have also become known as the title of a book about entrepreneurs. In such situations, there must be three principles: one must be able to act quickly, one must be clear and one must be able to trust. Rapid action is important, and we have shown today that this can be done, also in terms of improving content. Clarity means avoiding making too complex laws that would restrict the minister's freedom of action. Trust refers to the agreements made between the committee and the minister on feedback, consultation and a clear reporting on what is happening on the ground. We are always talking about the EUR 50 billion, but it is also important to create the possibility of a common guarantee of EUR 50 billion in credits, in accordance with a certain formula by the government and the banking sector. There has been talk here of bazookas, and I would like to make the comparison with antibiotics. One needs bazookas, but one should not use them or as little as possible; if not, the same thing happens as with antibiotics: if one takes too much of them, one becomes immune to them and has no effect anymore. It is therefore important that we have these instruments ready, but the best thing is, of course, that we should use them as little as possible. So it is best that we not only contain the crisis, but that the banks do their job and that the companies can do their job. I take this as an important point: thanks to the way in which we have worked today, we have set up a positive and constructive dialogue in a very specific context in the Chamber, with a number of parties who have given confidence to the government and a number of parties who have not provided this support, and I am looking at both the PTB and the Flemish Interest. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u145	Yes, but I'm talking about parties that haven't supported the government, not the powers of attorney. After all, an entrepreneur always thinks of solutions first. Today we must work on solutions. The whole discussion about what we could have done better today and what went wrong should not be the priority in today's difficult times. We all need to work on solutions. I say it in French: we have to start thinking about the way out of the crisis. After overcoming the health crisis, we will have to measure the damage and ensure that the engine of our economy is not blocked and can leave again. I think that's important. I would like to thank my fellow Members, because I hope that the new normal of these times of crisis will also become the new normal after the crisis, namely that as broad a dialogue as possible across party boundaries, in which everyone participates and where the best is taken into account, will lead to an improvement in legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u146	Mr President, I would like to begin by reminding you of the purpose of the whole debate, which will make it important what happens in the period after that. So many of my comments deal with the discussions that we will certainly have in the future if they do not end well. Well, the aim of our discussion is to ensure that, in a very difficult crisis, as many healthy businesses and healthy self-employed people as possible survive and thus save as many jobs as possible. That is the aim, with which I do not deny the importance of the other discussions. For example, the amount allocated is large enough. Anyway, that's the purpose of our discussion. I quote this because, after the banking crisis, experience has taught us that too many economically sound entities, self-employed and SMEs went bankrupt, because they could not count on the necessary guarantees, credits and bridging credits. We received a great deal of study material on this after the previous crisis. It took us seven years to get the added value and employment of our SMEs back on track. One of the main reasons was that the banking sector did not lend enough and acted too restrictively. That is the lesson we drew from that. In this sense, I think today's debate is very good, because, indeed, Mr Leysen, we must work in confidence and follow very closely in the coming weeks what is happening in the real economy with the guarantee scheme. I would like to insist on that once again. No cash will be released. I do not agree with the image outlined by Mr van PVDA-PTB. It is actually an implicit debt through the guarantee scheme, which keeps the economy running. I very much welcome the Minister's commitment to ensuring that all applications are notified to the credit centre before the specific rules enter into force. In this way, we can follow very closely the applications for which sectors there are, the size of the companies concerned, the self-employed who apply, the credits refused by the market and why. As far as sp.a is concerned, we need to use the state bank as soon as we find that liquidity is denied to healthy self-employed and SMEs. That is not an easy discussion, but there is a state bank with sound equity. That equity remains best healthy, but the first task and objective is to maintain healthy entities in the economy, faced with a massive systemic crisis that they cannot do, both for the companies themselves and for the jobs. The written report with all the details, as the Minister himself has pointed out, will be very important, because the Minister clearly outlines what is intended and how will be done, including in Parliament, with a report and detailed analysis of what is going to be done in the field. That is essential for us. This will initially cover the period up to September 2020. That is an important date, because until then the appropriations for 12 months can be examined. If the impact of the crisis is heavier and lasts longer, it can be extended. I've been going into a discourse that's definitely coming. It's a big deal to talk about the state bank we have. Moreover, the question arises as to whether the banks will continue to distribute the same amount of dividends. Last year, in the top six of the largest companies in the BEL20, there were four financial companies that together paid out 2.6 billion dividends. The highest dividend yields were therefore mainly from the financial sector. That's good if it goes well. However, we do not want us to have to make an implicit debt, in the case of a sovereign debt, which is already not small because of the banking crisis, with the result that banks, which do not all have their head office here, can keep their cash position and their reserves at a level to pay dividends to their shareholders or to buy their own shares, a dividend payment without withholding tax. The aim is to maintain transmission channels to the self-employed and businesses and to allow healthy businesses to survive. That's the only point. If we see that the financial entities do not act in accordance with that objective and indeed maintain their normal dividend yields and their normal benefits thanks to our guarantee scheme, then we in Parliament will respond strongly to that. I have seen from the discussion we had in committee today that everyone shares that view. The Minister underlined that it is not appropriate for banks to look for dividend payments now. That's very, very correct. At the bank which is 100% owned by the State, the Minister himself forms the general meeting. The dividend, which will then not be paid, can then be used perfectly to keep own funds healthy. Belfius can then be used perfectly to provide sufficient appropriations. We have those possibilities. I welcome the way in which the debate has gone on today, because the adoption of an implicit debt of 50 billion is by no means a small thing. It is certainly also up to Parliament to monitor what is happening in the real economy. That is the only point, all other considerations are secondary. First of all, we need to maintain healthy self-employed and healthy SMEs. The result is that we also keep jobs up. I come to my final point. If companies receive funds from the banking sector, it can be said that there should also be full job retention. I would like to see that, too, but we have already experienced it in previous crises. If companies decide to work with a man less to keep things going, then a credit cannot be refused, because that would mean bankruptcy and therefore the loss of all jobs. It is therefore difficult to set a rule in this respect. The aim should be to ensure that healthy entities are maintained, with the jobs in those entities. That is not just the main objective for us, but at the moment the only thing that we will be looking into thoroughly in the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u147	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement has been reached that combines efficiency and speed with double control. There will be control over the government, since the government will really have to oversee, if I can say so, the granting of credits. Monitoring will take place via the Centrale des crédits. Parliament will also monitor the whole process. Given the current terrible circumstances, we have no choice but to move forward in this direction. That said, it is true that 50 billion, it gives a little vertigo. This represents 10% of GDP. This represents a potentially huge amount that must be used wisely. Like others, we will be vigilant to do so with the support of employment, with the support of companies in the most general sense on the basis of the new Economic Code, namely any company whatsoever, including, therefore, non-market enterprises, which was particularly important for us, but also for the self-employed. Everything remains to be decided. We'll see him through the arrests. Mr President, I will not say any more. In the context of parliamentary work, not least in the Monitoring Committee, but also in the work involving the ten parties, we will have an opportunity to discuss this issue at each stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned by several Members that it is an unusual procedure to do the consideration, discussion and vote on one afternoon, both in committee and in plenary. Mr Loones, you have also indicated that, in addition, very large powers are being given to the government. I want to be very clear on this point. Large powers also mean a very broad responsibility. I am absolutely aware that the way in which we have been through this afternoon also explicitly means that I respect and take what we agreed on during the discussion. I have had the opportunity to thank the financial sector on several occasions for the unusual commitment he has made in a crisis situation. Let me now take the opportunity to thank Parliament for its commitment to make this possible. I know it was absolutely not obvious. There were other avenues, which had both advantages and disadvantages. It was not clear how best to act. At the moment, we are doing everything we can to protect the health of all Belgians as well as possible. I think that, with what is now before us, we are showing that we also want to protect the jobs of all Belgians. At times like this, people already have a lot of worries on their heads. The last thing people need is to worry about their financial future, about their jobs, about their ability to pay off loans or about the possibility that their company will survive this very difficult period. At a time like the present, we must provide security and stability. We must show that we are prepared to do exceptional things to protect people. The present schedule makes that absolutely possible. I would like to clarify some of the elements that have been amended as a result of our discussion in committee. First of all, we have reached an agreement with the financial sector. The Commission has made a considerable commitment in the event that some appropriations do not succeed. One question arises: can we make sure that the flow of credits and financing will be sufficient? Over the course of the day, we found a solution by extending the powers of the Centrale des appropriations so that unallocated credits could also be recorded there. The goal is to make a monthly report. I will take steps to that end. The second element that we have clarified is that the non-profit sector is also part of it. I know that this is very important for a number of parties. As indicated, the non-profit sector is an important part of our society. This sector is also a very important player in healthcare. It is important that this funding can be maintained. Last point: how do we deal with this royal decree? It has very technical elements, but also basic elements. Why are they kept in the royal decree and not immediately placed in the law? Because we are in continuous interaction with the European Commission. There is no sign that a solution could not be found together with the Commission, but it would not be a good idea to decide, in this Parliament, what elements are still under discussion. I am confident that in the middle of next week we will have an agreement from the Commission. At that time, the royal decree could be made. We will consult on it and explain it in detail in committee. At the moment, everyone must dare to go beyond their limits. There are people who do that every day now, at risk for their health. In that context, it is normal that we all dare to go beyond our borders. The financial sector makes it clear that it wants to do so. I know that there are questions as to how concrete this is going to be, whether it will be in practice. We'll all get questions from people whose credit wasn't approved. I want to promise you my full commitment to ensure that what was agreed is put into practice as much as possible. You will also have seen that the insurance sector is now also operating in the same logic as the financial sector. I am fully aware that what we are doing here today is beyond the limits of the normal parliamentary process. I want to make it clear that this should not be a precedent to deal with everything in this way from now on. Let me say very clearly that this is a very exceptional procedure, which cannot be used as a precedent for anything. I conclude with thanks for the support and for the very interesting and interesting interaction that we have had over the last few hours, with the commitment to create something that our fellow countrymen must protect in the best possible way at a very turbulent moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u149	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u150	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1108/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1108/4) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u151	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u152	I propose that you proceed to the composition of the commission responsible for monitoring the implementation of the law of... March 2020 enabling the King to take measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus VOCID-19. I propose that you proceed to the composition of the Committee responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Law of... March 2020 authorising the King to take measures to combat the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u153	- N-VA: 3 effectifs / permanent members 4 alternates / alternates - Ecolo-Green: 3 effectifs / permanent members 4 alternates / alternates - PS: 3 effectifs / permanent members 4 alternates / alternates - Flemish Interest: 2 effectifs / permanent members 3 alternates / alternates - MR: 2 effectifs / permanent members 3 alternates / alternates - CD&V: 1 effectif / fixed member 2 alternates / alternates - PVDA-PTB: 1 effectif / fixed member 2 alternates / alternates - Open Vld: 1 effectif / fixed member 2 alternates / alternates - sp.a: 1 effectif / fixed member
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u154	The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u155	- N-VA: Peter De Roover, Frieda Gijbels, Joy Donné - Ecolo-Green: Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Laurence Hennuy - PS: Sophie Thémont, Eliane Tillieux, André Flahaut - Flemish Interest: Barbara Pas, Dries Van Langenhove - MR: Benoît Piedboeuf, Kattrin Jadin - CD&V: Servais Verherstraeten - PVDA-PTB: Sofie Merckx - Open Vld: Egbert Lachaert - sp.a: Meryame Kitir
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u156	- N-VA: Katrien Houtmeyers, Yngvild Ingels, Jan Spooren, Kathleen Depoorter - Ecolo-Green: Barbara Creemers, Marie-Colline Leroy, Evita Willaert, Gilles Vanden Burre - PS: Patrick Prévot, Khalil Aouasti, Malik Ben Accour, Eric Thiébaut - Flemish Interest: Reccino Van Lommel, Ellen Samyn, Dominiek Sneppe - MR: Caroline Taquin, Philippe Pivin, Nathalie Gilson - CD&V: Sammy Mahdi, Bercy Slegers - PVDA-PTB: Steven De Vuyst, Raoul Hedebouw - Open Vld: Vincent Van Quickenborne, Tim Vandenput - sp.a: Karin Jiroflée, John Crombez Since the number of candidates corresponds to the number of places to be filled, I declare the candidates nominated elected pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of applications corresponds to the number of places to go, I declare the candidates elected in accordance with Article 157. 6, of the Rules of Procedure. After the plenary session, the commission will meet in the Father Damien Hall. After the plenary session, the committee will meet in the Chamber of Father Damian.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u157	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, today there will be no vote by name expressed electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, there will be no electronic vote today. You already have your ballot papers. You are invited to table your ballot paper in the ballot box and then leave the room. You already have your ballot letters. You are requested to deposit your ballot letter in the ballot box and then leave the Chamber. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Dries Van Langenhove cs on article 5. (1104/7) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Dries Van Langenhove cs to Article 5. (1104/7) Result of the vote. Result of the vote. Yes [[16]] Yes No. [[113]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Dries Van Langenhove cs on article 5. (1104/7) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Dries Van Langenhove cs to Article 5. (1104/7) Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[15]] Yes No. [[114]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u158	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, today there will be no vote by name expressed electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, there will be no electronic vote today. You already have your ballot papers. You are invited to table your ballot paper in the ballot box and then leave the room. You already have your ballot letters. You are requested to deposit your ballot letter in the ballot box and then leave the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 3) Yes 128 Yes No 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor. The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u159	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, today there will be no vote by name expressed electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, there will be no electronic vote today. You already have your ballot papers. You are invited to table your ballot paper in the ballot box and then leave the room. You already have your ballot letters. You are requested to deposit your ballot letter in the ballot box and then leave the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 4) Yes 104 Yes No [[8]] No. Abstentions 16 Abstentions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (1104/8) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (1104/8) Members who have abstained are invited to indicate the reasons for their abstention. Members who have abstained are invited to make known the reasons for their abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u160	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, today there will be no vote by name expressed electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, there will be no electronic vote today. You already have your ballot papers. You are invited to table your ballot paper in the ballot box and then leave the room. You already have your ballot letters. You are requested to deposit your ballot letter in the ballot box and then leave the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (vote/vote 5) Yes 104 Yes No [[8]] No. Abstentions 16 Abstentions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1113/1) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1113/1) Members who have abstained are invited to indicate the reasons for their abstention. Members who have abstained are invited to make known the reasons for their abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-26-55-plenair-ip033x.u161	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, today there will be no vote by name expressed electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, there will be no electronic vote today. You already have your ballot papers. You are invited to table your ballot paper in the ballot box and then leave the room. You already have your ballot letters. You are requested to deposit your ballot letter in the ballot box and then leave the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1108/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1108/5) Members who have abstained are invited to indicate the reasons for their abstention. Members who have abstained are invited to make known the reasons for their abstention. For the settlement of next week's proceedings, I refer to what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents, which will meet again next Monday at 12 noon. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday, 2 April 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 2, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
