ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this royal decision, in response to comments from the field, is actually a refinement of the previous Royal Decree No. 17. Madam Secretary, we think it would be useful if you could give us the impact on the ground. How many requests for payment have been received by the RSZ? It's usually framed. I don't know if you brought that today, but that could be interesting information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u2	Mr President, this is indeed more of a technical adjustment of some of the previous royal decisions. Madam Minister, under Article 3, can there be any guarantee that employers will not be sanctioned in the event of late payment of a social secretariat, particularly later than 23 December? Article 4 defines the penalty for late payment of advances in the first and second quarters. Does this also apply to those employers who have not been delayed or who have not applied? If so, what is the estimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u3	Mr President, I would like to know how this is all happening on the ground. Are social secretariats able to follow in the processing of cases, for example? Is there any idea of the number of deferral requests that have already been submitted to date? The questions that my colleagues asked were also in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u4	Mr President, Mr Bertels and Mrs Galant, you asked for the number to be postponed. There are those that have been made automatically, which number 38,414. 74,724 people have requested a postponement but not automatic. And there are some who have applied for it in a different way, including on their own initiative and through a declaration of honour. In total, 65,209 automatic requests for payment are deferred. Declarations of honour for inability to comply with sanitary measures count for 3,258. Closed on its own initiative, without obligation, applies to 3,974. This comes to a total of 7,232. Then follows the number of people due to a reduction in turnover and a reduction in the mass of wages, which could also be obtained. The combination of the two comes to 4.689. The total of honorary statements is 11,921. We have already given other deadlines for the social secretariats. Those deadlines have been extended. However, if they are still late, the employer is not sanctioned. Employers who have not requested a postponement for the first and second quarters simply have to pay. If they can't and they don't meet the conditions, they have to ask for a payoff plan, as always. Of course, a payment plan is already being authorised more quickly than in normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u5	Are there any replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u6	Mr President, I will only say a few words. It is good that this royal decree is extended until 1 September and that the scope of the measures has been extended to new beneficiaries. However, we regret that the same logic is not applied to workers, but is limited to essential sectors. I think we will discuss this when we address the following order, which concerns workers in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u7	Madam Minister, a compensation fund has been set up within the framework of Fedris, which, in accordance with the same principles, works as the compensation fund for asbestos victims. I was wondering how the Fedris officials applied the rules in this case, because they had to look at the circumstances in which the infection happened and whether adequate security measures had been taken. Does the same strict application apply to the exposure criteria as in the ordinary occupational disease scheme? For a volunteer who is or was active in the various sectors listed above, it is not evident to have the strict application of exposure criteria that are sometimes used in the occupational disease scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u8	Madam Minister, I have a question about the field of application of the term volunteers. Why was it chosen to define the target group so widely? Is there thus no illogical preference of a volunteer towards an employee of the same non-profit organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u9	Madam Secretary, I have checked whether the Council of State's opinions have been met. All of his comments were incorporated into the Royal Decree, except for his remark that the scope is far too wide. The report to the King specifies why the comments of the Council of State were not met and why students can also benefit from the Fund. I would like to stress that I think that is a good decision. A lot of students have kept things running by filling shelves in supermarkets, for example. It is the right choice to take the regulation as broad as possible, which is why I wanted to see that interpretation confirmed once again, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u10	I have a thought, Madam Secretary. Either way, the volunteer or his or her descendants have a burden of proof. The volunteer or his or her descendants have to prove exactly where the volunteer has contracted the infection and sometimes the importance of the voluntary organisation can be diametrically opposed, for example because that organisation would not have taken the necessary measures to protect the volunteer. Afraid of possible recovery pursuant to Article 1382 et seq. of the Civil Code, the problem of proof for the volunteer will not be evident. We have this concern, which does not mean that the RB has maximized the efficiency and ease of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u11	The application shall be submitted to Fedris and a decision shall be taken within four months. Payment will follow at the latest two months later. The application shall provide evidence of infection by means of a reliable laboratory test recognised by Sciensano or by a suggestive clinical presentation confirmed by a compatible CT thorax, as this would also lead to diagnoses later in evolution. Furthermore, the application for a grant must be accompanied by proof that the volunteer has volunteered outside his or her home. If there are any additional questions, they will be asked by Fedris and of course they will also have to be answered. As the Council of State points out, we have taken a very broad scope. We did this on purpose, because we wanted to help everyone who was in the line of fire, such as students and volunteers. However, I understand the comment made by the Council of State. People who are considered volunteers are primarily volunteers according to the definition of the voluntary law but also certain association workers who performed activities during the corona crisis, including counsellors at the shelter. The scheme shall also apply to the students and the voluntary ambulances referred to in Article 17c of the RSZ-KB. Fedris uses the same criteria for employees and volunteers. We do not want to make a distinction in this respect. Mrs Pas, the extension of the scheme to students was a source of discussion. However, we have opted for their social protection. They have jumped in so many places and have been an indispensable aid, both in the health sector and in commercial sectors, which, despite the lockdown, had to continue their activities. They have also been very much used in the food sector. Especially during the hamster period, they have done more than their best to help, for example, replenish the racks. They helped the companies concerned so that they could continue to operate during the lockdown. It is therefore important for us to give them this social protection. Luckily, it's not a lot of cases. We have not received a single application so far. However, the virus is not gone yet; let's hope, the less the better. In any case, it is better that they are included in the decision. It is not our custom to broaden the scope, because I prefer defined rights, but an exception can be justified here. I hope that nobody will have to call on the fund, not out of covetousness but simply because no people have been victimized. It is important that proper regulation is in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u12	Since there are no replies, we end the discussion of Royal Decree No. 22 and we proceed to the discussion of Royal Decree No. 29.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that during the crisis hospitals had to give up regular, non-emergency activities. We're thinking about consultations, outpatient activities, some operations, day admissions. This has had a consequence on the journey of doctors in training. In some specialties, it is known that the activity has been completely stopped. I am thinking for example of ophthalmology, dermatology. In others, on the other hand, there was an increased need for medical personnel: emergencies, sorting centres, nursing homes, etc. Many doctors in training have finally been mobilized into services other than in the service originally mentioned in their internship plan, in order to be able to cope with the consequences of the pandemic, and to guarantee the capacity to take care of or provide an additional capacity to take care of. These students were therefore unable to complete their internship as planned, and this may have consequences for their evaluation by the Communities, since the Communities are the competent authorities. This decree aims to provide a solution for these doctors, who are no longer able to complete the required number of months of full-time internship or the number of medical benefits determined during the duration of their planned training, but who have, however, carried out alternative medical activities throughout the duration of this crisis. This order proposes, on an exceptional basis, to assimilate the clinical activity carried out between 1 March and 31 December of this year, within the framework of the planned training period, as a relevant part of the internship, under certain conditions, of course. It is clear that it will be the responsibility of the Communities to carry out an evaluation: on activities, the number of months of traineeship, the type of activities, etc. If the final skills are not reached, they will obviously be able to propose an extension of the internship. It goes without saying that, if an extension of the traineeship is proposed, it will obviously have to be justified in a detailed manner, taking into account, inter alia, the possibility of assimilation, as set out in the decree. The principles of the decree were discussed with the federated entities, taking into account the link in particular with the Communities. It is obvious that a solution had to be found for these doctors in training. We therefore support this text. In the long run, however, this really raises the question of quotas and quotas, both in medicine and dentistry. As has been said on several occasions, the current crisis has highlighted the importance of the health and de facto system, the importance of the health care personnel who were present in the fight against the pandemic. In the face of the realities which are, let us admit, different within the Regions and Communities of the country, it is difficult, in the long term, to maintain such a distribution of quotas between Dutch-speaking and French-speaking students. It will therefore be time to clarify the system. Minister, are you planning any progress in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u14	I think it is a good thing, in itself, that the continuity of the traineeships can be ensured and the placement plans completed, even if they were filled in slightly differently by the corona crisis. It is also a good thing that the recognition of candidates can be achieved if there is sufficient skill, even if they have done other things than what was stated in the internship plan. Madam Minister, during this period we have also noted the need for a statute for doctors-specialists in training. They often fall between two chairs. Are we talking about that again? I know those calls were started a few times, but could never be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u15	I agree with the colleagues. This KB is more than appropriate to recognise and reward doctors in training for their extremely important efforts. Last week, I read in the newspaper that 6% of nurses who were internships under COVID-19 have stopped training and that 12% are even thinking of a reorientation. Has the same happened to the doctors in training and have you heard of these dramatic figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u16	Mrs Tillieux, the evaluation of traineeships is a competence of the Communities, such as teaching. This is a special teaching because it takes place in hospitals, in pairs with the doctor trainer. We discussed this issue within the ICD in order to find a solution with the organizations representing medical specialists in training. So they're ASOs they represent. The internship plans could not be fully compliant at any given time. If a service is temporarily closed, it is supposed to be unemployed, but in the absence of a statute it does not exist for them, as you say, Mr Bertels. That was a big problem. In the long term, the recognition and training of these young colleagues could be compromised. Not all of them, but at some point certain internships had no intention of paying them. We then intervened, in consultation, first with the coordinating internships who are associated with the university faculties of Medicine. They have put it firmly that we really needed those people, they would use them in COVID services and other services, and that it is a very valuable internship for those who experience such a thing. So they could use that help, too. That was solved at the time. Mr Bertels, you know that we have put a lot of work into the statute of the ASOs, with the White Paper and the Green Paper. That finds its way, be it for me as well as for you too slow. However, it continues. I will ask for further time planning, because I sometimes see something passing by. It remains our objective to regulate that statute. I hope that we will not experience the recent events, but in another case there will be more certainty if they have a statute. Mrs Tillieux, as I said, it was within the ICD that the issue was discussed. When you talk about quotas, you talk about something else. Here, they were intern physicians in the services that were removed by the safety plan measures to avoid an increase in the number of patients in the intensive care units. We have done so in order to safeguard the capacity of hospitals, since we did not know at the beginning of the crisis how the situation would evolve and because we did not want to see what had happened in Lombardy. The emergency plans have therefore been used for this purpose. At some point we have allowed hospitals to resume their normal performance step by step, and if possible. This is not related to quotas because there were enough doctors but not in all services. You also need to know that an internship means side by side. The number of students a teacher doctor may have as pupils is limited. He cannot take care of twenty interns at the risk of going mad and being unable to provide attentive support to each student. So these are two very different dossiers and two very different subjects. But I understand you're trying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u17	Who doesn't try to get nothing! It is clear that the current distribution of the medical student quota is not appropriate. We've said enough. As you said yourself, Mr. President, students, especially in nursing studies, unfortunately sometimes give up on internships as well, understanding the reality of the practice of medicine. This distribution among students from our different Communities is clearly not appropriate. It will be necessary to set up a system which corresponds to the real needs on the ground, not a system based solely on the number of inhabitants of each Community. I found it important to recall this, even if we support, of course, the order under consideration today, to reassure everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u18	Since there are no more speakers, we will end the discussion of Royal Decree No. 29 and we proceed to the discussion of Royal Decree No. 32.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u19	Mr President, it is pointless to say that we fully support this text, which has been approved by bpost and the trade unions – it is important. I would add that bpost workers, like all those in the key sectors, have had to cope with the spread of the virus, while the volume of e-commerce packages has increased considerably. They had to redouble their efforts to ensure their timely and timely delivery, given the difficult circumstances. We therefore understand very well the necessity of this royal decree, especially since the company is experiencing difficulties in terms of labour (...) This profession is indeed demanding. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the investment and dedication of the staff (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u20	Mrs. Tillieux, we couldn't hear you completely. Let us hope that the minister has understood you enough to answer you. Otherwise, you can rest your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I certainly understand this royal decision. I have only one question about the validity of the procedure. I was a little surprised that the Council of State did not make any comments on this. I would like to make sure that we do not have any legal discussions later on about validity, especially when this comes before the courts. Can you confirm that this is completely waterproof and that we will not have problems with the burden of proof later on?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u22	Madam Secretary, I have one more question. Who has access to the photo taken from the identity card or to the information recorded by the postman? After all, there is more information on it than just the name and privacy must be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u23	As Ms Tillieux said, it is in the interest of postal staff to offer them the opportunity not to have any physical contact with the customer, but also to prevent customers from touching the devices, whether electronic or not, for receiving mail. The aim is to limit contacts in order to avoid contamination for both staff and the client. Mrs Ingels, if there had not been a regulatory basis for different practices as long as social discrimination applied, there could indeed be a legal dispute. There is also an archiving obligation for bpost in respect of receipts, leaving them unchanged for 13 months. I come to the question of whether the identity is being verified. This is indeed done by means of a photograph or by means of the data recorded on the receipt. There are rules on this matter. The Royal Decree of 24 April 2014 lays down the rules for issuing registered consignments. These are letters of formal notice and the mandatory verification of identity. One has to record the data or take a picture of it. This can be done more remotely so that the person can be clearly identified. This is kept for at least 13 months by the postal service provider. This applies both to registered consignments and to court letters. Then it can be destroyed. A paragraph was added in the report to the King. These measures leave unchanged the obligations arising from Article 8 of the Royal Decree of 24 April 2014 regulating the postal service to verify the identity of the recipient by recording the identity document. There is a lot of explanation about this, about the photo or the registration of the identity card. I believe that we should give everyone who continues to work in the essential services every opportunity to protect themselves and to take as little risk as possible in the exercise of his or her profession. We also know there aren't enough postmen. That's also a bottleneck job. We've got to do everything we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u24	I think we can all agree with that last one. Are there any reservations or questions? (No) Madam Minister, I thank you for your very regular presence in this committee. We'll meet again at the ratification of these KBs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u25	You haven't gotten rid of me yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u26	Mr President, I have a number of comments to make. The Council of State had noted that the Dutch text of Article 1 of the Royal Decree refers to the law of 30 July 1938 and that the French text refers to the law of 30 July 1838. However, this has not been adapted, and it has yet to be done. Article 2 provides that physical tests for the recruitment of Defence will be cancelled because they cannot be organised in these circumstances. The Council of State rightly states that this needs to be revised. That didn't happen at the KB. However, it does not seem logical to me to abolish all the tests and to omit any assessment of physical fitness. Applying to Defense without physical testing, what's next? Doesn't it have repercussions, or can it at least have repercussions, on guaranteeing our security if the military are potentially physically out of order? The Council of State also commented on Article 4. It is stated that, in order to ensure equal treatment, applicants who have passed certain tests but have not been able to complete all the tests and who are automatically re-registered for the recruitment sessions are exempt from the tests for which they have passed. The report to the King states that the comment on the Council of State exemption is not followed, since the recruitment of the military already provides that certain results obtained by the applicants remain valid until 31 December of the year following the year in which the selection tests were started. Indeed, Article 27a (2) of the Royal Decree states that they remain valid until 31 December of the following year, the year following the year in which the selection tests were started, but forgetting to mention that there are many exceptions. The exceptions are listed in Article 27a, § 2, 2°: tests of school or academic knowledge, scientific tests, tests of professional knowledge as an applicant musician. These are all exceptions that it states will have effect until the end of the recruitment process of the relevant recruitment session. If I read this in conjunction with Article 4 of the RB, it says that the recruitment process for the year 2020 for the current recruitment session considered will be definitively terminated by the Director-General Human Resources with regard to applicants who have not been able to complete all the planned selection tests before 18 March. In particular, does this mean that if Article 4 (1) is applied, and therefore the recruitment process for 2020 is definitively terminated, the tests referred to in Article 27a (2) will no longer be valid, i.e. the exceptions under paragraph 2 which only have effect until the end of the recruitment process? Is there no discrepancy there with the opinion of the Council of State, which considers that a person who has passed a test before 18 March this year, but who has not been able to carry out all the tests and who is automatically re-registered for the next recruitment session, should again be exempted from this? That does not seem entirely logical to me, and I would have liked to have some clarification about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u27	Minister, we, too, had some reservations about the temporary relaxation. We then went to the Defense Department ourselves, where we were given answers that we are satisfied with. If Defence can guarantee us that it will be able to make sufficient recruitments this year, then we can approve the RB. Mr Pas has already referred to the proposal on physical tests. We consider the tests to be an essential part of a high-quality recruitment process, but it now appears that only 2% of the candidates are prevented. Perhaps it is therefore necessary to take a closer look at these physical tests and to review their degree of difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u28	Mr.Minister, without going back to the content of this order, I believe that the only lesson to be learned from what is on the table today is that we should now be preparing a series of measures to ensure that recruitment to Defence can resume and that the conditions of the military are improved to meet their specific missions. They have been seen and recognized as essential in recent months and weeks. Care must therefore be taken to ensure that attrition does not continue. There was already a lot of difficulty in recruiting. From now on at the Minister, Department and Defence level, a serious and concrete plan is needed to ensure that Defence does not fall apart in the coming months or years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u29	Minister, the professional assessment of military personnel is limited to statutory assessment. Is there no way to do a new evaluation in the second half of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 31 reflects a situation in which face-to-face activities, both in the training of military candidates and in the selection of future military candidates – the applicants – were interrupted between 18 March 2020 and 11 May 2020. In addition, distance work has been encouraged to the maximum extent. In addition to commenting on some essential elements, I will also tell you how the situation is evolving, probably responding to some of your questions. I will then address the specific questions that have been asked to me. Some candidates officers from the École Royale Militaire will begin Master 1 training in September, without meeting the condition of success of an English test imposed at the end of Bachelor 3 training. However, the test will be completed before September 30, 2020. The situation will thus be regularized by that date. Several provisions relate to the selection of future candidates and are linked both to the specific measures to be observed with regard to social distancing and to the delay caused by the cessation of selection activities in March 2020. The first element limits the number of participants in the events. The second element ensures that the residual selection capacity until the end of 2020 does not eliminate all this delay and therefore requires making choices in some tests not to compromise others and above all to avoid closing the selection process for applicants too late. The aim is to incorporate military candidates without delay, in order to meet the 2020 recruitment targets, and also not to compromise the 2021 recruitment target. A choice was made to remove the selection tests that would not meet the social distancing criteria imposed, and for which the failure rate was reduced during selection. These tests will of course be taken later during the training. For the same reasons of health security and capacity I have just mentioned, a limitation on the number of registrations may be necessary. Since the gradual resumption of selection activities on May 11, this is not envisaged. But the possibility is provided if we have to face a second wave of VOCID-19, again limiting the ability to select. This limitation will only apply to functions for which the number of registrations exceeds the number of vacancies. It also seems useful to me to point out that the delay in selection has been caught up and that the 2020 recruitment targets are being met. There are 200 officers and 600 non-commissioned officers. The remaining selection capacity now focuses on the selection of sailor soldiers. Registrations for all vacant posts during the period from April to December 2020 are again open. The incorporations are planned during the last quarter of the year. In the area of working time, distance work, for a person working full time, is maximum three days per week. In order to encourage telework during this period of health crisis, 100 % of working time is allowed to work from a distance. Finally, the effective and effective dates of the provisions are linked to those determined by the federal government, except for those related to recruitment and selection activities, related to the end of the recruitment year 2020, thus on December 31, 2020. I have received comments on Article 2. Defence is not able to organise or delay those trials, nor to make the differential by recruitment type and/or recruitment session. Moreover, the provision is framed in the context of a limited selection capacity. In particular, it is intended to enable applicants to participate on the dates announced. The choice made here ensures that selection in terms of physical fitness during the selection process is less upstream and a little more downstream. I have also received a few comments on Article 4. No one will fall out of the boat. The results will remain valid until the end of 2021. As far as Article 6 is concerned, the new evaluation system is indeed applicable, but an evaluation has not yet been carried out on the basis of the three elements of the assessment. All staff have not been able to follow the specific training for the new system. We can't do that by 2020. I don't see any other comments, but there might still be questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I am not reassured by your words. You say that some tests will have to be carried out later in the training and that no one will fall out of the boat and the results will remain valid from 2020 to 2021. However, that is not clear from the text with all the exceptions I have just mentioned. It literally states that they run until the end of the recruitment procedure and that the recruitment procedure is stopped. So, Minister, I hope that this will not cause legal uncertainty or problems in the future. After all, the lack of explanation from you did not reassure me at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-22-55-commissie-ic217x.u32	Are there any reservations? (No) Then I'll finish the meeting.
