ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. This is a new experience for me as chairman of the committee. Just give me a little more time. Last night I tried to learn the Rules of Procedure from outside, but I have not yet fully succeeded. Don't hesitate to send me home if I make a mistake. We have a solid agenda today. I suggest that we start the topical debate right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u2	Mr President, first and foremost, congratulations on your appointment. Minister, there are a lot of questions on this morning's agenda about this highly radioactive and long-lived waste landfill project of ONDRAF (the National Radioactive Waste and Fissile Material Organization). With the agreement of the President, I shall sum up in a single turn the various questions that I have put to you. First of all on the form, I received a lot of fairly legitimate inquiries from citizens who asked me how it was possible that we could respond anonymously to a typeform – it is really a typeform that it is on the ONDRAF website – to participate in the public consultation. It is a rather strange, new process, and it is not very clear whether the different members of a single family, living under the same roof and having the same IP address, can participate in the survey or if, on the other hand, the ONDRAF controls the IP addresses. In this case, several people living under the same roof cannot respond to the survey. This is a very practical question on the validity, form and manner in which this public consultation is conducted. As far as the substance of the subject is concerned, it seems to me first of all important to address the question of funding, the financial cost of the ONDRAF landfill project. Since 2018, we know that as a result of the new landfill prospects, no longer 200 metres but 400 metres underground, ONDRAF has multiplied the costs by three. Since 2018, we have been talking about 10.7 billion euros which, today, are still not fully funded. And we know the whole problem of nuclear supplies. Minister, what is ultimately the financial estimate of the project we are talking about today? What external experts have been consulted for this environmental impact report? We all know that the 2006 law most often provides for such projects, certainly of this magnitude and scope with consequences for hundreds of thousands of years, that study offices be consulted. In this case, this is not the case. It was the ONDRAF who, somewhere in judge and in part, drafted the study. I would also like more details on the total volume of the geological storage facility under discussion. We know that if we add the Type B, Type C and the spent nuclear fuel that is currently stored very temporarily in Tihange and Doel, we arrive at a total volume of at least 13,500 m3. It would be interesting to know the mass in tonnes, according to ONDRAF, of this volume of radioactive waste to be stored in geological storage facilities. It may also be interesting to understand why there is no mention in the inventory we are taking into account today of the 10 000 m3 of highly radioactive waste from Umicore stored in Olen. Indeed, if the base inventory can change and increase from 13,500 m3 to 23,500 m3, the amount of provisions should also change significantly. It is important, in my view, to make all the clarity on this point. With regard to the planning of the project, we all know very well that, pending a final long-term disposal solution for the most highly radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel remains in place at the Tihange and Doel power stations. We also know that, in Tihange, nuclear installations will have to be dismantled and that, after dismantling, waste will not be allowed to remain forever in these extremely precarious installations, which cannot last beyond 2100. In addition, several foreign governments have reacted to this public consultation, starting with the Luxembourg government, which called the alarm on 12 May. One of the main criticisms was the lack of cross-border study, in violation of European legislation and the Espoo Convention. Minister, I would also like a very clear answer on the reasons for the absence of such a cross-border study, which cast doubt on the legal validity of the ongoing public consultation. This is a particularly sensitive issue. If I take the place of the Rhineland-Palatinate Government or the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, I understand that the decision in principle on the deep burial of radioactive waste may be a problem for foreign governments and our neighbouring countries. The least that could be done would therefore be to consult them on the matter. The criticisms made by foreign governments have also allowed many municipal and provincial councils and colleges to enter the niche in order to request a quality public consultation. This debate would allow them to be listened to and consulted. Therefore, minister, I wonder what you are going to do with all the motions that have come to you lately. It would be interesting to know how many communal and provincial motions you have received. In conclusion, I would like to have a clearer view of the place you will reserve for citizen and communal mobilization. What democratic follow-up will you give to these requests, before the adoption of the royal decree that will endorse the decision to irreversibly bury highly radioactive waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u3	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you expressly and sincerely on your appointment. Madam Minister, the public consultation organised by the NRAS on the proposal on the geological disposal of high-level radioactive waste and the environmental impact report is still running until Saturday. The definition of a national policy in this area is an obligation under the European Directive 2011/70/Euratom. To meet this requirement, the NIRAS proposes the principle of geological or underground storage on Belgian territory as a management solution and final destination for this waste. So we are talking here about a very first step in decision making. It is not too early, because we know the correspondence the European Commission has had with the Minister in the past winter. The Minister drew the attention of the European Commission to the Belgian route. This subject has been the subject of debate in recent weeks. NIRAS confirmed on 13 May 2020 that it is not the author of the geographical map circulating in certain French-language media and indicating the potential locations. I would like to respond somewhat to the accusation that there is no cross-border study. According to the Law of 13 February 2006, the SEA Advisory Committee examined the environmental impact assessment and it stated already in November last year that it is not necessary or possible to assess the cross-border effects at this stage, since the NRAAS proposal does not yet contain a geographical demarcation and therefore the geological centre has not yet been established. I was therefore somewhat surprised by the actions of the Luxembourg Minister and the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. On the recommendation of the same advisory committee, the NRAAS informed all SEA/Aarhus/Espoo contact points at EU Member State level when the public consultation was launched, namely on 15 April 2020. It is therefore not the case that the foreign authorities were not aware of the launch of this public consultation. Madam Minister, I note that you were a guest in the province of Luxembourg for a kind of information session with various anxious municipal authorities. I wonder why this session only took place in the province of Luxembourg. Was that all there was to worry about? I don't know. It was definitely a weird way of working. Potential areas are also in Flanders. So you might as well have come to Flanders. I'd be happy to wait for your answer on that. I would also like to know whether a preliminary analysis of the answers in the survey has already been carried out, as well as the exact way in which the questions were produced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and congratulations on your appointment to your new position. For my part, Madam Minister, I wish to return to this issue related to the ONDRAF investigation that has been launched since April 15. It concerns the long-term management of conditioned, high-activity and/or long-lived radioactive waste. It is following the statements of your Luxembourg counterpart that many local elected officials have learned that their entity could be affected by the ONDRAF projects. As a reminder, minister, this is a subject that we first pointed out with our colleagues at Ecolo-Groen, here at the federal Parliament level. In a motion for a resolution, we asked you to extend the public consultation period by 30 days and thus ensure all the conditions for a democratic debate of quality by requiring ONDRAF to organise expert panels and public meetings on all options for the management of nuclear waste. For us, it was important. Unfortunately, our proposal has not been supported by a majority of members, and I remain largely disappointed. It is true that this dossier, following the release in the press of the Grand-Ducal Minister, has greatly affected our population. Now it is time to give him answers, even if I had already asked you about this in another debate on a text proposed by the N-VA. I am glad that we can come back to these issues. Indeed, I am very much asked on both sides to follow up on this issue, its environmental impact and its impact on citizens. In addition to what Mr Cogolati has already asked, have you been able to identify the number of motions tabled by local authorities? How many did you get? What follow-up will you give them? At all levels of government, be it municipalities or provinces, different positions have been taken so far, continue to be taken or will be taken in the coming days or weeks. It is essential to provide adequate responses. Can you tell me in practice whether the Gaume or the Ardennes, the Verviet region or Namurois, are among the sites examined or envisaged as the final destination of radioactive waste and/or long-lived? Are these sites actually being taken over? Have some sites already been presented to the Scientific Council? Finally, could you tell us about the steps that will follow the investigation? Are we going to have a synthesis of the different responses and citizen opinions that have been expressed? Will these views be binding on the future of the project? What follow-up are you going to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u5	Mr President, I in turn congratulate you on your appointment and welcome you to this extremely exciting committee. Madam Minister, a point of order. Some will have noticed that it is possible to respond, under the guise of anonymity and GDPR, as many times as possible to the public consultation on the ONDRAF draft plan and the environmental impact report accompanying the long-term plan for the management of radioactive waste with high activity and/or long life conditioning. And this, without ever asking for an email address or our identity being verified, even if only by the registration of his surname and first name or his contact details. This leads me to believe that the results of the consultation could indeed be falsifiable if desired. At the level of the European Union in any case, in the context of public consultations, whether or not we accept the publication of our personal data, we are nevertheless obliged to show our identity or that of the organisation on whose behalf we answer, in order to avoid any abuse. Anonymous contributions to consultations and feedback mechanisms are not accepted. Minister, my questions are very simple. Some local elected officials did not hesitate to mention a suspicion of disability in this context. What do you think? Could this render consultation null and void?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u6	Mr President, first of all, let me congratulate you on your appointment to the chairmanship of this committee. Minister, I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said opportunely. However, at the plenary session on 14 May, you stated that you were awaiting clarification from your Grand-Ducal counterpart about his statements to the press in which it indicated specific locations for the burial of nuclear waste in certain communes in the province of Luxembourg, which was rightly offended by several mayors since they were not aware of anything. You have repeatedly reiterated that the public consultation, which is to be completed in a few days, concerned exclusively the principle of burial. I recently regretted that this consultation under the Act of 13 February 2006 could not be extended due to the exceptional health crisis we are experiencing. In addition, the provincial council of Namur province adopted a motion on 5 June, denouncing inconsistencies in this matter. Madam Minister, I come to my questions which, I believe, complement those of my colleagues. So, can you let me know if you have been able to obtain from your Luxembourg counterpart the reasons for his press release of 12 May? Have you contacted the Walloon authorities to ensure that clear information can be disseminated to the municipalities mentioned in the mapping?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u7	Mr President, congratulations and good luck for me too. Welcome to this fascinating committee, but the subject matter is very well known to you. Madam Minister, I will not repeat what the previous speakers have said. What is the current state of public research? How many reactions came in, divided according to the different regions? Have there been contacts with neighbouring countries and what are the reactions of neighbouring countries to the survey? How is cross-border consultation planned now or in the course of the procedure? What is the intended timing once the consultation is completed? What is the status of the European Commission's letter of formal notice? What did Belgium say to the Commission? What are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u8	Mr President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make use of the opportunity to speak with the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u9	Good morning, everyone, and congratulations on your appointment, Mr President. With regard to all the questions you have asked, I have made a general answer which, I hope, covers most of your concerns and which I ask you not to hesitate to come back to in case some questions have not been answered. For basic information and the context, I would like to refer you from the outset to my numerous replies on this subject, in particular to Parliamentary Questions Nos 5500094C and 55001043C in Committee of 15 October 2019, to Questions Nos 55002861C and 55002890C in Committee of 11 February 2020, to Questions Nos 55004711C and 55004914C in Committee of 15 April 2020, to Question No 55004710C in Committee of 30 April 2020, to Question No 55000710C in Plenary of 14 May 2020 and, lastly, to the work carried out in connection with the rejection of Motion for a Resolution No 1164, in particular during the sittings of 30 April, 13 and 28 May 2020. I would like to remind you, in general, that ONDRAF must propose a national policy for the long-term management of high-level radioactive waste and/or long-lived radioactive waste. This waste is referred to as B and C. This is a European obligation, resulting from Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011, transposed into Belgian law by the Act of 3 June 2014. To take into account the 2011 and 2015 opinions of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which is our nuclear safety authority, the Ministers of Economy and Energy asked ONDRAF to draw up a new proposal which, for its first step, should be limited to the principle of geological storage on Belgian territory without indicating the host rock at this stage. Secondly, this policy must be carried out in successive stages, with public consultation at each stage. And both Mr Peeters and I sought strict respect for these principles by writing to ONDRAF in November 2018. To facilitate the decision-making process, it has been divided into several stages. As a first step, the established process provides that the decision-in-principle concerning the technical solution, i.e. a geological storage system on Belgian territory, is retained and proposed for consultation. In a second stage, which will come in a few years, the geological formation or appropriate geological formations will be chosen, which will then be defined. In a third stage, the concrete location of geological storage will be determined. At each stage, and for a 20-year period of study, there will be environmental impact assessments and public consultation. According to ONDRAF, the full process should take place over several decades and we are at the beginning of the first stage, which will lead us around 2040. ONDRAF developed a proposal for a national policy plan and conducted an environmental impact assessment by producing a non-technical summary. This consultation, the dates of which were indicated to you on 10 December 2019 by ONDRAF and on 11 February 2020 by myself, is organised by ONDRAF, which is the institutional author of the proposal according to the provisions provided for in the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on the participation of the public in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment. This consultation was announced at the Belgian Monitor on 1 April 2020 and takes place from 15 April 2020 to 13 June 2020. This consultation is continuing, but I do not currently have any specific information on the number of people who have spoken in this consultation, beyond the figures I have already mentioned in our various exchanges. It is premature to talk about the results today. I believe that I should stay out of the process because ONDRAF is independent. It must maintain this independence even if we can exchange on this. As regards questions on the modalities and organisation of the consultation, the opinion of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, external and international studies and experts, the consultation was organised in accordance with the Act of 13 February 2006 and was carried out in accordance with Article 14(1) of the Act in the following manner: a notice to the Belgian Monitor; a notice accessible on the website belgium.be; an opinion available on niras.be and ondraf.be; an opinion which can be found on the national portal on the Aarhus Convention (aarhus.be), on access to information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters. In addition, announcements were published on ONDRAF's LinkedIn page and a press release was prepared and distributed via Belga on 1 April, in French and Dutch. Since 15 April, all the information and documents of the public consultation – the draft plan, the environmental impact report and the non-technical summary – are available on the ONDRAF website at the following address: niras.be/sea2020 and ondraf.be/sea2020. The ONDRAF also issued a press release on 13 May to clarify the proposed plan and its SEA (Strategic Environmental Assessment – Strategic Environmental Assessment) submitted for consultation. It therefore represents, but you will have understood, only the very first step in the decision-making process, covering several decades, which must lead to the implementation of a long-term management solution for high-level radioactive waste and/or long-lived radioactive waste. This body proposes to develop, with all stakeholders, a decision-making process that will accompany the development of the final management solution. These include setting the different stages of decision-making, responsibilities, participation and control rules. It is therefore impossible at the moment to detail these steps and their precise timing. The determination of the modalities for the reversibility, recovery and monitoring of stored waste and the selection of an implementation site are already important milestones in this process. The map of potentially favourable localities has not emerged – I repeat – from the ONDRAF documents. In addition, the final choice of location of a geological storage is not on the agenda and is not affected by the consultation, as it will be determined by a whole decision-making process designed in several stages. The final decision will be the result of all previous decisions, consultations and studies. The press release of 13 May, issued by ONDRAF, is very clear on this subject, as the following excerpt shows: "The decision requested is therefore the very first decision-making step, namely what Belgium intends to do with this waste. Proposals for concrete plans, where, when and how this should be done will be the subject of proposed decisions at a later date." ONDRAF confirms not to be the author of the map circulating in certain media and indicating potential places. The ONDRAF recalls that the process of choosing a location for a storage site is not on the agenda of this proposal and of the current consultation. The environmental impact assessment accompanying the plan mentions only host rocks which, on the basis of international practices, could theoretically be taken into account for storage in Belgium. This is therefore a general description of Belgian geology. Since the choice of location of geological storage is neither on the agenda nor the subject of consultation, a dialogue on these elements is therefore premature and beyond the scope of the ongoing investigation. In its project, ONDRAF proposes to establish such a dialogue in the course of the decision-making process which will accompany the management solution over the coming decades and which will be to be defined with all stakeholders. You are asking me if and how the opinions of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency have been taken into account "in the current project". Let me remind you that the public consultation is not about a proposed storage facility, but about the proposal for a plan, i.e. a pure and simple decision-in-principle, limited to geological storage. The question, then, is whether or not we are proceeding with geological storage and, if not, whether we are considering another solution. The solution of geological storage is recommended by many national and international experts from academic circles, nuclear and non-nuclear research centres and specialized institutes. This is also the solution recommended by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency in its 2011 opinion under the SEA Waste Plan procedure in its name at the time, namely "European Pre-Directive No 2011/70/Euratom", which indicated some essential elements to be recalled. I quote: "First, storage pending the development of new technologies, long-term storage or perpetual storage are irresponsible and do not constitute a solution for the long-term management of high-level and/or long-lived waste. Secondly, underground storage on Belgian territory now seems to be the safest solution for high-level and/or long-lived waste in Belgium. Thirdly, all studies conducted concerning storage in low-duration clay, mainly in Boom clay, show that there are no arguments to question the suitability of this Boom clay for storage. However, it is premature to make today – this 2010 declaration – a decision on the specificity of the rock that could accommodate the waste, i.e. the host geological formation. This requires an overall assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of the various possible host trainings in Belgium." This last sentence is very important, because it generates the general and theoretical global study of the Belgian geological subsoil. ONDRAF has explicitly taken all these elements into account in its draft plan as currently presented to the public consultation. As I recall, this is strictly limited to the principle of geological storage without, at this stage, specifying in any way the host rocks in which the storage of nuclear waste would be possible or possible. Let me turn to the questions relating to the IT platform and the GDPR. The ONDRAF told me the following. "With regard to online consultation, only one participation is possible by IP address. This is linked to a unique identification code, so that ONDRAF does not store private information and thus ensures the anonymity of the survey participants. ONDRAF has put in place a simple and easy-to-access tool to collect the views of as many of our fellow citizens as possible. " I remind you that this is a public consultation that seeks to gather comments, observations, public objections. This is not a referendum. The purpose of this tool is not to count people for or against. This may result in a very high workload due to the treatment of hundreds of identical, incomplete, out-of-subject responses. But that is the price to pay for a consultation accessible to all. The ONDRAF has already submitted to this type of exercise in 2010, a question that I will expand on in my answer. The ONDRAF considers that the implementation of these measures makes it possible to limit the number of responses from the same computer. With regard to the practices of the European Commission, ONDRAF has informed me that it is not because a participant is asked to give a name that the participant necessarily gives his or her real name. The verification is not carried out either by the Commission or by the Member States. Your concern therefore remains at this level as well. Finally, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 14, § 1, of the Act of 13 February 2006, to which I have already referred, observations and opinions may also be sent to ONDRAF by post. With regard to the participation rate and the motions, on 2 June last, 16,180 reactions had already been received by ONDRAF, i.e. 7,821 from Belgium and 8,359 from abroad. I cannot answer your question about the number of communal motions that would have been voted on. Indeed, ONDRAF did not provide me with the number of opinions from the municipalities or provinces received at this stage. On the other hand, I can tell you that on 8 June, two days ago, ten communes communicated to me motions relating to the consultation organised by ONDRAF. I have obviously forwarded these motions to the latter in order to ensure the proper continuation of the consultation. They will, of course, be analysed and processed in accordance with the terms of the Act of 13 February 2006. As far as contact with the regional authorities is concerned, as I have already mentioned, ONDRAF is organising its consultation in accordance with the law of 13 February 2006. In this context and in response to the question of contact with the Walloon authorities, ONDRAF informed me of the following. First, on 17 February 2020, he had asked the regional ministers responsible for the environment to inform him of the contact persons he could contact to submit the dossier for advice and, if necessary, to provide further explanations. Second, the Walloon Minister of the Environment's office responded on March 6, 2020, indicating a contact person. Third, at the launch of the consultation, on April 15, 2020, ONDRAF communicated the documents in the file to the person identified. With regard to the subsequent steps, the results and how the observations are taken into account, ONDRAF will analyse the results of the consultation with all necessary care. As regards the continuation of the procedure, ONDRAF will apply Articles 15 to 17 of the Act of 13 February 2006, on the understanding that this consultation of ONDRAF is only a first step in the establishment of the national waste management policy of categories B and C. The analysis of the reactions to the consultation will be the subject of the declaration that ONDRAF will draw up in accordance with the law. Moreover, according to the procedure laid down by the Act of 13 February 2006, the declaration must summarize the manner in which environmental considerations have been incorporated into the plan or programme, the manner in which the environmental impact report and consultations have been taken into account, and the reasons for choosing the plan or programme, as adopted in the light of the other reasonable options envisaged. Since the consultation is still under way and is organised by ONDRAF, I do not have an analysis of the answers at this stage either, or the Minister for the Economy, Mrs Muylle. You're asking me if any sites have already been presented to the Scientific Council. As I have indicated to you, today we are only talking about the first step in establishing the national policy for the management of Category B and C waste in Belgium, the only principle of geological storage. At this stage, since the selection of a host rock or location of geological storage is neither on the agenda nor the subject of the consultation or the proposal for a national policy, sites have not been submitted to the Scientific Council by ONDRAF. Indeed, ONDRAF is still far from having an application file for authorization for a concrete project of a storage facility to be submitted to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency for advice to the Scientific Council on Ionizing Radiation. With regard to the establishment of a national policy, I would remind you that Article 179(6) of the Act of 8 August 1980 on budgetary proposals 1979-1980 (the "ONDRAF" Act) provides that: "By deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Agency and after consulting the competent regulatory authority, the King shall establish and maintain national policies on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. (...) The national policies referred to in the first subparagraph shall be considered as plans or programmes within the meaning of the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on public participation in the preparation of such plans and programmes." It is not for me to derogate from the law. As for the order of business of Parliament, this is obviously your responsibility and the Rules of Procedure of the House. With regard to the question of the choice of location, host rock or geological layer, the choice of location of geological storage is obviously not, as you have understood, on the agenda or subject of consultation. The draft plan of ONDRAF specifies in its Article 4 under the heading "Definition of the long-term management solution": "The solution chosen to ensure the long-term management of radioactive waste referred to in Article 2 of this Decree is a geological storage system on Belgian territory", neither more nor less, in a very principal and general way. For more than 40 years, ONDRAF, in collaboration with the Nuclear Energy Study Centre (SKE CEN) and national and international partners, has been studying the behaviour of clays as a host rock for storage. This research shows that clays have adequate storage characteristics and that these characteristics are not negatively affected by the heat released from the waste. As already mentioned, aspects related to the selection of the host rock are not on the agenda. As far as the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is concerned, I received a letter from the Luxembourg Minister of the Environment, Climate and Sustainable Development dated 14 May 2020, which followed her press conference of 12 May 2020 and my telephone conversation with her, which I already spoke to you in committee on 13 May. I replied to the Luxembourg Minister this week. In my reply, I reminded my colleague that the preliminary draft of ONDRAF is at this stage the responsibility of ONDRAF, which is an independent public body, and that the Belgian federal government is not the author of the preliminary draft in question. The Government is not yet called upon to take a decision at the present stage of the current procedure. I have indicated to him that his letter does not allow me to identify with the necessary precision, in the provisions of the preliminary draft royal decree which establishes the process of adopting the national policy on the long-term management of radioactive waste on Belgian territory and which is currently subject to consultations, the provisions which, in the sense of my Luxembourg colleague, could have a significant impact on the Luxembourg environment or the nature of those effects. I therefore asked him to specify his request and informed him that in these circumstances I was sending his letter of 14 May 2020 to ONDRAF at this stage. Given the good quality of our bilateral relations, I reminded her of my willingness to meet her regularly and frequently if she so wishes, but also on the sidelines of the bilateral meetings between our two countries or to continue to exchange in writing as she wishes, in order to gather her point of view and relay it to ONDRAF if that is also her wish, since she can also write and make known what she thinks of ONDRAF. ONDRAF has given all the publicity required by law to this consultation. The choice of location of a storage is not on the agenda. I turn to the other questions on cross-border aspects and the cross-border assessment procedure. According to the Act of 13 February 2006, it is up to the author of the plan to determine, on the basis of the opinion of the SEA Opinion Committee and the legal and regulatory provisions, whether the cross-border assessment procedure should be implemented. Therefore, I remind you of this because I have already told you, in its opinion of 21 November 2019 on the draft directory of the environmental impact report, the SEA Opinion Committee supports the step-by-step approach proposed by ONDRAF and the impossibility of carrying out at this stage an impact assessment in a cross-border framework. It is important to note that it is because no specific geological formation or location is being considered at this stage that the decision is taken. This decision remains at a purely abstract level. During the meeting on 7 May 2020, the SEA Committee stated that a formal cross-board consultation is not required at this stage. As it had done in its first opinion, however, the Committee had recommended that the documents should be sent informally to the SEA experts of other members of the European Union and not only from neighbouring countries. This was done by ONDRAF on April 15, 2020. Cross-border consultation will be carried out, as appropriate, in accordance with existing regulations, during the next decision-making steps and in particular at the time when the location aspects of geological storage will be studied. This is also what ONDRAF communicated in its clarification of 13 May 2020, one of which I quote again. "As geology, site, mode of implementation and timing are not known, the description and assessment of environmental impacts must, at this stage, be carried out at a general level. Environmental impacts will be assessed in greater detail as the solution develops. Such assessments, including, where appropriate, cross-border effects and related public consultations, will be organized in due course in accordance with existing national and international provisions. The SEA opinion committee, which, according to the Act of 13 February 2006, reviews the environmental impact assessment, specified in November 2019 as part of an initial analysis that the geographical demarcation and geological environment of the ONDRAF proposal has not yet been determined, therefore it is neither necessary nor possible to assess the transboundary impacts at this stage. With a view to ensuring the greatest transparency and in a spirit of good collaboration, and on the recommendation of the SEA Opinion Committee, ONDRAF has warned all SEA/Aarhus/Espoo contact points at EU Member State level from the start of the public consultation, i.e. from 15 April 2020." Finally, with regard to this consultation, I also had a telephone conversation last week with the Minister of the Environment of the German Land of Rhineland-Palatinate. I now turn to the situation in the European infringement procedure. In view of the infringement procedure still under investigation, Belgium, in the opinion of the European Commission, did not comply with Directive 2011/70 on the establishment of a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel for radioactive waste. The main focus of this opinion is on two points: firstly, the absence of a clear procedure in Belgium for defining its policy on the long-term safe management of spent fuel and category B&C radioactive waste. At the very least, it should specify what activities still need to be carried out in order to put in place such a policy and a specific framework for its adoption. Secondly, a full estimate of the total cost of the programme, including the basis and assumptions used to formulate this estimate with a timetable. I replied at the time that I and my colleague Kris Peeters, previously in charge of the Economy and with me in this case, had asked ONDRAF in November 2018 to submit this proposal for a national policy to the SEA Opinion Committee under the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes and to start public consultation on the first stage of the scheme as soon as possible. So already in November 2018, I was soliciting ONDRAF on this subject with my colleague Kris Peeters. This consultation, which was repeatedly announced at the beginning of my response, is ongoing. The ONDRAF organizes it as we requested, in accordance with the law of 13 February 2006. In addition, we were inclined to call again on ONDRAF to establish such a consultation that took place in 2010, because some associations and political groups had asked us to do so at the time. It was the Ecolo Group and we referred it to that request. As you can see, the government is listening. He says what he does and does what he says! As for the estimate of the total cost of the programme, Belgium reminded the European Commission that it is one of the few countries in the Union to have, with the inventory of nuclear liabilities, a tool to quantify the costs of all Belgian nuclear liabilities and to monitor their evolution over time. We have therefore sent the European Commission the fourth report on ONDRAF's nuclear liabilities. This case is currently being dealt with by the Commission. We are, of course, waiting for an answer. With regard to the specific more technical questions relating to quantities and volumes, ONDRAF estimates that the tonnage of steel required for the construction of geological storage infrastructures and working barriers containing waste B and C will amount to approximately 121 000 tonnes. The mentioned volume of 250 m3 of Category C radioactive waste concerns only high-level vitrified waste from the reprocessing of part of the Belgian spent fuel. As indicated in the Environmental Impact Report, the complete inventory of high-level waste includes, in addition to these 250 m3 of high-level vitrified waste, also the 3,800 tons heavy metal of spent fuel. The total volume of this high-level waste is about 2,600 m3. Category B radioactive waste stored in a future geological storage facility represents a mass of 32,000 tonnes, while Category C radioactive waste represents a mass of 12,000 tonnes. For spent fuel, the inventory is based on the Synatom Reference Programme, which provides for the reprocessing of a fraction of its spent fuel. I would like to recall that the decision of the Council of Ministers of 4 December 1998 by which, in particular, the government asked Synatom not to conclude any new reprocessing contracts without its formal agreement is still valid, and that it will therefore be up to Synatom to submit a future reprocessing contract to a future government, in the event that the next government requests it. Umicore's radiiferous waste in Olen is now managed in an AFCN-approved facility. No long-term management decision has yet been taken on the future of this waste. This decision will be the subject of a specific future national policy. Therefore, these wastes will be reviewed by ONDRAF in a supplementary inventory included in its Environmental Impact Report. The specific risks associated with the possible presence of radon gases will require, inter alia, specific measures to be taken during the operating phase, similar to those already applied in the existing radifary waste storage facilities at Belgopress in Dessel. In this connection, I would also like to refer to my answer to Question No 55005704C on radiiferous waste. Furthermore, the planning set out in the reference scenario established by ONDRAF, in accordance with Article 1, 3° of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014, which amends the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 determining the tasks and laying down the procedures for the operation of the public body, provides for the ONDRAF to obtain authorisation for the creation and operation of the geological storage facility around 2050, the storage of Category B waste around 2075 and 2090 and that of Category C waste between 2115 and 2130 in respect of spent fuel. Then, according to its reference programme established pursuant to Article 1, 3°, of the royal decree referred to above, Synatom provided – for the fraction which will not be reprocessed – for a cycle packaging of spent fuels under its responsibility, from 2065 until 2080, with a view to their final transfer to ONDRAF for storage, pending final geological storage. Therefore, ONDRAF does not provide that Category B and C waste storage facilities must be completed in order to empty the temporary spent fuel warehouses in Doel or Tihange. With regard to costs, in 2018, ONDRAF made an estimate of costs overnight, i.e. the costs calculated as if all transactions had taken place at the same time at a reference date, as these costs do not take into account inflation or discount. ONDRAF estimated the overnight costs of geological storage, estimated on the basis of the reference scenario and taking into account the reference programmes, in accordance with Article 1 of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014, referred to above, to be EUR 10.7 billion in constant value 2017. As regards the setting of charges for the period 2019-2020, ONDRAF has taken account of technical-economic optimisation routes for an amount of €2.7 billion in constant value 2017. In view of the uncertainty regarding the optimisation routes, ONDRAF recommended to the Commission of Nuclear Supplies – in accordance with the precautionary principle and as a transitional measure – and under my leadership, to take into account the amount of EUR 10.7 billion in 2017 constant value for the fixing of the necessary amounts for provisions for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants, which constitutes a very important leap in terms of mandatory nuclear provisioning by Electrobel. I would like to apologize for the length of my answer, but it is a very sensitive and detailed subject, both in terms of its scope and the environmental impacts it generates. It is therefore essential to take the time to deepen as much as possible all the questions at each stage of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. Members will now be given the floor for their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your very long reply. Don't apologize. I also think it is important to provide these answers now, at least before the end of the public consultation, this Saturday, 13 June. For me, it's essential. It is a case that has consequences for hundreds of thousands of years. A million years, even the ONDRAF says. I confess that I do not know many other issues in Parliament that have such consequences on such time scales. Let me turn to four specific points. First, on the modalities, and therefore on how the investigation proceeds. The Act of 13 February 2006 does not provide for public consultation via Typeform anonymously. Not at all. If I understood you correctly, you replied that ONDRAF did control IP addresses. This means very concretely that in the same home, the ONDRAF can absolutely not distinguish between responses from one and the same person or answers from four different people sharing the same IP address. In addition, a VPN connection still complicates everything. I would like to ask you this question, which is really basic, I am sorry, and even a little ridiculous, but it is essential: are the arrangements for consultation not finally flawed? Do they remain valid, from a purely legal point of view, since everything proceeds from a Typeform, anonymous, which can be filled by several persons or by one and the same person? The second element I would like to stress is the consultation which unfortunately took place in the midst of a health crisis. Once again, I would like to formally denounce the confiscation of the public debate in the midst of a health crisis. I find that this is not a time for public consultation on such a serious, important project that has consequences on such long time scales. I understand the astonishment of the mayors. I understand the astonishment and surprise of the population. I heard there were over 16,000 reactions, including 8,000 from abroad. I also understand the astonishment abroad, in neighbouring countries, who learn through their government – through a formal government decision – that there has been no cross-border investigation. It seems to me important to organise a real public debate. All we asked, minister, was to be able to organise real panels of experts, to inform the public about the various alternatives at stake. For as you said, this is only a first step. There will be others, especially on the precise location, in which geological layer. But this first step is really crucial because we are talking about the very principle of landfill technology, a method that, in the long run, is irreversible according to the ONDRAF. This crucial decision cannot, in my view, be taken lightly and must be taken after a public debate with the advice of experts. This is my third point on the project itself. As you have said on several occasions in order, in a way, to defend consultation, the current study is purely abstract and general. It is for this reason that you stated that it was not possible for you to study transboundary environmental impacts. Minister, there are two things one: either the impact study can be carried out because there is sufficient detail on the project, the type of packaging, the depth, the type of clay, and a public consultation is organized and the neighbours are consulted properly, or there is insufficient information, there is no clear answer to the questions, and in this case the project is not the subject of public consultation. We are asked to give, by 13 June, a blank cheque for a method of burial, a method of geological storage when we lack crucial information about the place – we do not know exactly where this will take place – as to the date – we do not know exactly when this will take place – as to how this will be achieved – we do not know exactly what type of packaging will be used – and as to the depth – we do not know whether it is about 200 or 400 meters. These are really important elements. Indeed, on 13 June, the decision in principle on burial will exclude, by means of ricochet, all other solutions on the table and all possible alternatives. I am thinking in particular of a European solution which is provided for in the famous Euratom directive you mentioned. This is a dangerous way of doing things! Finally, with regard to the complete process, as you said, it will take several decades. Maybe he could start in 2040. But once again, Madam Minister, on such a sensitive and controversial issue as the long-term management of radioactive waste, we cannot accommodate uncertainties. Therefore, I would formally ask you to provide us with precise figures and cross-expertise on the project that was presented to us on 15 April by ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u12	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very long answer, which I will, of course, read out in detail. You have also highlighted a lot of procedures. I am pleased that you confirm that the SEA Advisory Committee states that at the present stage a cross-border study is not possible or even necessary, and that the data of rock regions where highly radioactive waste could be disposed of via geological final disposal is still purely theoretical and is still at an abstract level. Colleagues, I must say that there are not a thousand solutions to manage high-level radioactive waste in the long term. I do not think anyone here is in favour of, for example, marine salvage; I certainly do not. I would also like to point out that a decision has already been taken in many neighbouring countries on the principle of geological final disposal. Madam Minister, I would like to ask, but I am sure that will happen in the future, that people will look with other countries to develop a joint geological disposal facility. That is something that needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u13	Minister, many things have already been said by my colleague Cogolati. However, I would like to go back to your argument about any other nuclear waste management solutions that you think would be under consideration and that are currently not unanimous in the scientific community. These other leads would not be supported by your services. Therefore, if the current ONDRAF survey is supposed to take the pulse among the population, if it is supposed to seek the opinion of our fellow citizens on the very principle of geological burial, allow me, Madam Minister, to ask you a question that falls within the meaning of this question! What follow-up will you take if all or in any case the majority of the opinions expressed by our fellow citizens in this current ONDRAF survey were unfavourable to geological burial? Would it finally be like a stalker? Citizens are asked to position themselves on a principle that, in any case, will not be called into question if they do not receive support afterwards. If I follow your reasoning, they are asked to explain themselves, to choose when in reality they would not have the choice in fine. Minister, what will you do if our fellow citizens reject the principle of geological burial as part of the ONDRAF investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u14	Minister, I had focused my question on the issue of the validity of the investigation. I am very concerned that it is the IP addresses that make reference. Indeed, it is not necessary to be an IT specialist to understand that an IP address means that several people can respond to wishes on several different computers. However, this will prevent, as Mr Cogolati said, members of the same family who have only one computer from responding to this inquiry. You confirm the validity of the rules of inquiry, but I hope you will not be denied if an appeal is brought against this procedure. The future will tell us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u15	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her long, comprehensive and detailed response. I have received a reply concerning relations with the Walloon Region and Luxembourg. I would just like to point out, like other colleagues, that it is essential to maintain the principles of transparency and consultation of the populations concerned in the future on this issue. I thank the minister in advance for her follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, although it contained few new elements. You mainly pointed out the i in relation to the applicable framework today. In the end, this dossier, which will be discussed several times in the next legislature, deals with the essential question of what we will do with our nuclear waste. We are talking about type B and type C waste and we must not forget that these are used fuel rods, uranium waste and even polonium. In short, the debate is about security. The debate is also about democracy. The debate is also about transparency. What shall we do? In what way? Who will we involve in this? There's the NIRAS, there's the FANC, there's the government. The question needs to be asked when the next steps in the file will be made and whether they will be sufficient. Do we have enough checks and balances to bring about a democratic and transparent debate? This will be the only way in which society can support a solution to waste. We can no longer avoid the debate on this issue. Years nothing happened, or almost nothing. Now there is a first step, but the next steps will have to follow. Our group has made the reflection on the basis of which we will make the necessary progress in the debate. We are preparing texts, which will soon be tabled to broaden the debate beyond merely the question of location, manner and formation. In this way, a consensus can grow in society to shape the final stage of nuclear energy policy. After World War II, our country opted for nuclear energy in its entirety. The garbage's here. We need to find a solution to this. This will require a thorough exercise, not only of the NIRAS and not only of the FANC, but also of us, the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are having an important debate here, because choices need to be made, even if we should have made them for a very long time. It is not just a matter of saying in different governmental agreements that B and C waste should be chosen. Since the debates in 2011, which I have followed, there is a waste plan that needs to be decided. But everyone seems to want to put that out for themselves; no one wants to make a choice. Such an approach is wrong. We need to move forward step by step. The first step is to answer the question whether we choose geological disposal or not. We must take that step, otherwise we will continue to rotate in circles. The debates have taught me that a number of colleagues do not want to choose here; they want to keep all the options open and store the waste temporarily over the next 100 years. That was Mr Calvo's proposal a few years ago. But we're not doing anyone any favors. On the other hand, we must consult the people and move forward. We have already done this for Category A waste. A support was sought and found for the installation. The mayor of the local authority has explained this to me in scents and colors. We followed the right path there. Parliament can and does, of course, deal with the matter. For example, NIRAS was heard on the subject in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety. I am only sorry that those who raise most of the questions today did not even come to ask the people of NIRAS a question. In fact, they are therefore undermining the debate. I sometimes have the impression that some Members wish that there is no solution to the waste and therefore no choice is made. After all, as long as no solution is devised, this can be used as an argument to argue against a number of issues. I do not agree with that view. The issue must be looked at objectively and everything must be seen. Today we have to take that responsibility, also with regard to our neighbours. After all, some of the B and C wastes are not huge volumes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ A place must be found for this too. We must therefore take steps forward and seek a constructive attitude. I notice that several parties have made a nice fill-in list, on which their constituents fill out what those parties want. I quite believe in the democratic debate, which means that, in my view, the citizen is really sensible enough to make the right choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u18	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your new position. You can certainly count on us for constructive cooperation to ensure that the work in committee is done properly. We did not raise a question, but I wanted to say that the debate was conducted in Mr Cogolati's motion for a resolution and we regret that it did not obtain a majority. I agree with Mr Cogolati and Mrs Van der Straeten that this is a debate of principle that would have required a public debate because it is an important decision that binds us for a very long time. Even in normal times, two months would have been very little for the conduct of a procedure that has been developed for forty years. It would have been necessary and positive to take a few more months and open the debate much more. I regret that this public debate did not take place. Although there was a public consultation, it did not take place in optimal conditions. In addition, the PTB understands the reactions of many citizens and municipalities. I am a communal councillor in Namur and the city of Namur unanimously voted to extend this public consultation. In fact, I've asked the M.R. members to give you a call. The extension won't take place, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u19	It was an extensive debate. The oral questions are now on the agenda. In principle, the sitting will last until 1 p.m., but I do not know whether we will work effectively until that hour, because the hearing will start at 2 p.m. I suggest that we move immediately to the first question and we will see how far we get today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u20	Mr President, Minister, on 20 May a press release was distributed by the various regulators in this country on a study commissioned by PWC. This is a comparative study of electricity and natural gas prices in Belgium and our neighbouring countries, examining the prices of January 2020. FEBELIEC, the Belgian industrial consumers' sector organisation, has once again said that FEBELIEC says annually that Belgian industrial consumers still pay significantly more than in neighbouring countries. You have always said that when drawing up an energy standard, the authorities would base themselves on the results of the study awarded to PwC, which will, moreover, be updated every year. Madam Minister, what is the state of play of the study announced to serve as a reference? Now that the study is complete, what can you say about that? How do you respond to Deloitte's recent analysis commissioned by FEBELIEC, which shows that Belgian industrial consumers are still paying between 8% and 29% more than the average of the four countries under investigation this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u21	Mr Ravyts, the study commissioned by the four regulators carried out by PwC is currently being completed and should be published by mid-May according to the previously communicated schedule. This study has a much wider scope than the Deloitte study commissioned by FEBELIEC, in which only the electricity invoices of electro-intensive customers in Belgium and three neighbouring countries, in particular France, the Netherlands and Germany, are examined. First, the study commissioned by the four regulatory authorities also examines the advantageous situation of industrial customers who are not electro-intensive, such as customers operating in the airport sector, data centres or the pharmaceutical sector. It should therefore be noted that the study commissioned by FEBELIEC does not reflect the situation of all members. A second study commissioned by the four regulators also studies the impact of the gas invoice, which is low in Belgium, on the competitiveness of industrial customers, whether they are electro-intensive or not. As the majority of industrial customers consume both large quantities of gas and large quantities of electricity, it is indeed necessary to study the total gas and electricity bill of industrial customers. Finally, the study commissioned by the four regulatory authorities also examines the situation in Great Britain. Parliamentary debates on the Brexit have sufficiently demonstrated that Britain is an important trading partner for Belgium, which deserves to be taken into account in comparison with Belgium's neighbouring countries. The conclusions of the Deloitte study commissioned by FEBELIEC should therefore be analysed in parallel with the conclusions to be included in the PwC study commissioned by the four regulators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but you may have noticed that PwC's study is now ready and even online. Mr President, it would be interesting to have an exchange of views in this committee. The study is there and can be compared with Deloitte's study. The PwC study already contains important issues about the degressivity mechanism. Moreover, in the context of the CRM story, the PwC study states that the reductions obtained by the electro-intensive customers in Belgium on the basis of the degressivity mechanism are lower than those enjoyed by their competitors in neighbouring countries. That's a not insignificant conclusion in PwC's study. In conclusion, I'll tell you that the material is here now. I can therefore assume that this provides a reference for discussions with the various governments on the development of an energy standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u23	Mrs Creemers is not here to put her question No. 55005614C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the Climate Committee on Wednesday, 29 April 2020, I appreciated your ambitious comments on the importance of meeting our climate commitments in the strategy for the redeployment of the economy. You have explained that Belgium defends the principle of a climate mainstreaming at European level. But at the national level too, a mainstreaming climate would be necessary. The climate issue is more transversal than ever. We are at a crossroads. In all matters, in all the decisions that we will make in the context of the return to normal", it will be a matter of borrowing the right one. Economically, financial support for enterprises must be used primarily to protect their employees and, if aid is granted to companies, they will have to commit themselves to ambitious climate targets through concrete means. In the area of finance, we will need means to revive a sustainable society, to pay properly for the professions that deserve it and to help those who need it. At last, fair and sustainable taxation will have to be achieved. In energy, we must invest in a social energy transition that leaves no one at the edge of the road. Sustainable food and agriculture must also be put on track. And, in mobility, we must, by all means, avoid a return in force at all to the car. Sustainable measures must be taken in all sectors. Minister, the work is colossal. How do you work with your government colleagues to ensure the sustainability of the measures in place? Do you monitor the situation? What about the federated entities? Could the federal government provide the lead to put climate at the heart of measures as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Schlitz, your question is colossal and, therefore, my answer will be a little too. You are, quite rightly, sweeping very wide on a subject that is extremely glaring at the moment when we are talking. The economic recovery strategy must be carried out in compliance with our international, European and Belgian ambitions for sustainable development and climate. In order to deal with the crisis of the VOCID-19 and its consequences, it is important to consider the sustainable development goals. I want to! This also includes climate goals, as they are contained in the sustainable development goals. It must be considered that these two elements are a compass for a policy of revival. These objectives must guide public investment, support measures, and economic and fiscal instruments to be deployed in our country in all sectors you cite. The mainstreaming of climate policies must take place at both national and European level. The strategic vision document for a carbon-decarbonised Belgium for 2050, prepared by the administration, is a guide to the direction to be given – in addition, of course, to the Federal Sustainable Development Plan. Key aspects are also included in the National Energy-Climate Plan, although its ambition will need to be strengthened, notably in the context of the revision of the European greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2030. It is clear that it is necessary to help companies that are now affected by the crisis and to protect their employees, but bearing in mind that these aids will also have to play a role in the transition to a climate-neutral and sustainable economy. In the support measures to be granted, we must therefore ensure that priority is given to those companies which are in line with this transition logic, in order to avoid at all costs the phenomena of lock-in in carbonised assets, because they are condemned to term. Support must then be conditional on strict and measurable commitments in terms of sustainability and transparency. It will indeed be necessary to reorient some parts of our tax system, with a view to a green reform of our tax system. As you know, I had organized a national debate on carbon pricing with all stakeholders, to serve as a basis for all reflections on carbon pricing, including in the social dimensions. I invite you to take a fresh look at the conclusions of this dialogue, if you do not have them in mind today. In addition, in accordance with the National Energy-Climate Plan, an analysis for energy and environmental taxation is to be prepared by 2021 in conjunction with the Regions. This is a first step towards a new tax system compatible with our environmental objectives. Two priorities emerge in this context: on the one hand, the elimination of subsidies to fossil fuels and, on the other hand, the gradual introduction of carbon pricing. The drastic fall in energy prices is, moreover, in favour of such a gradual introduction, with a view to using revenues in order to guarantee the social character of the measure and to promote post-COVID recovery through investment in energy efficiency and decarbonised techniques. Renovation of buildings is also an area of choice in this regard. To this end, our goal is to neutralize all public buildings by 2040. The investments required to achieve this, as well as those necessary for the renovation of the building stock in the private sector, will be a powerful stimulus and intensive local labour force activity. With regard to agriculture, the establishment of the European "From farm to fork" strategy for sustainable food is of great interest to us. Belgium is actively contributing to the formulation of this strategy to support a transition of food systems and to strengthen efforts to limit climate change, protect the environment and preserve biodiversity. Like you, I believe that our agricultural model must move towards a less intensive and more resilient model, which relies more on local anchoring. Mobility is also a priority area for action that could be subject to change following the crisis we are experiencing today, simply because of the significant extension of telework, e-commerce and modal shift. In any case, the measures taken in this sector will have to be based on a vision of long-term mobility at national level and lead to a cooperation agreement in this field by 2021, as foreseen in the National Energy-Climate Plan. A "Whole of governance" approach, involving actors in all policy areas, including at regional level, is indeed essential in order to deploy the measures that must contribute to the gradual redefinition of our production and consumption patterns, thus building a regenerative and climate-neutral economy in Belgium. In this context, the Public Health FPS recently sent a vision note to the Co-President of the Economic Risk Management Group (ERMG) setting out the principles of a green recovery policy and the possibilities for such a recovery, including social and economic ones. The Public Health FPS intends to contribute to the development of a sustainable recovery policy in collaboration with all relevant partners. I can share this note with you if you wish. In the same vein, the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development has just launched a study whose objective is to determine how the measures currently being taken, in preparation or envisaged at the socio-economic level, can be directed towards a more sustainable and resilient economy. This study also looks at our neighbouring countries, the countries of Europe and the way in which the European Union is taking such initiatives in the field of recovery policy, initiatives which, on the one hand, promote economic recovery and, on the other, strengthen and accelerate progress towards sustainability. The results of the study are expected in September, but interim reports will be available. I'll let you know. Finally, it is crucial that we can ensure adequate control of the measures to be put in place. As you know, relevant data in this regard are collected by a multitude of bodies and institutions such as the National Climate Commission, the Sustainable Development Task Force of the Federal Planning Office, the Regulatory and Governance Task Force in the context of the National Strategic Investment Plan or the ERMG Working Groups. The coordination of the various tools is, of course, a challenge that I will remain attentive to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u26	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive and engaging response. I appreciate hearing firm positions, particularly on the conditionality of aid or the exit of support for fossil fuels. You refer to the work that needs to be done in certain areas within the competence of your colleagues. For example, on the inter-federal level of mobility, I will shortly be asking Minister Bellot about this. As work has already fallen behind before the epidemic, I fear that this agreement will not be concluded in time. I look forward to hearing his answer. As far as the insulation of buildings is concerned, your colleague, Minister Geens, announced last week that justice was spending 8% of its budget on energy expenditure. In this regard, there are levers on which to build. I hear your willingness to move forward in different sectors, but I am more concerned about how the impact of the VOCID measures is recorded as moving in the right direction and how a mainstreaming climate is achieved, and how the impact of these measures is seen overall. I don't feel that at the highest level. Of course, it is very good to show you with a voluntarism, but it would be useful if this were to be reflected in the decisions taken by the CNS or the government as a whole. It would be important for your colleagues to coordinate on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u27	We have received the response from AFCN via Minister De Crem that the radiiferous waste stored in Olen at the Umicore site – both on hotspots and on the UMTRAP facility – that exceeds 1,000 Bq/g must be stored geologically. La réponse était: "These materials need to be stored deep." They have to be stored like the radioactive waste we're talking about in Tihange and Doel and we talked about early this morning. Madam Minister, are the provisions of Umicore, which, in the latest news, amount to only EUR 17 million, sufficient to be able to manage this radioactive waste, in particular its long-term storage? It seems to me that this amount should explode. I would like more details in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the financial aspect out of the answer I was giving to your broader question. As indicated in the fourth report of the ONDRAF nuclear liabilities inventory, the annual costs of monitoring and maintenance of the main facilities of Umicore containing radioactive substances assessed by ONDRAF amount to €0.53 million per year in constant value 2015. As at 31 December 2016, Umicore declared environmental provisions for the management of the installations concerned in the matter before us, amounting to EUR 30 million in constant value 2015. ONDRAF is not in a position to estimate the cost of packaging all substances for their long-term management, due to major uncertainties about the very fate of existing facilities, the extent of the protection measures to be implemented and the amount of waste that should be taken over by the body.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you. I, too, have read the fourth report of the inventory of nuclear liabilities. That is why I am very concerned because I know that there are only EUR 17 million that are provided and that, for the past month, there has been a joint vision note from AFCN and ONDRAF that says that all radifary waste that exceeds 1000 Bq/g must be stored in the long term, such as Type B and C radioactive waste that we talked about this morning. If I do a simple calculation, we are talking here about 10,000 m3 of highly radioactive waste which has in addition radify characteristics. I simply have to note that billions of euros are missing on the note. Uncertainties cannot be accommodated on such a serious issue for the future and for future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u30	Mr President, it is the danger of delivering only part of the answer. I must add that the radioactive radiiferous waste that would eventually be subject to geological storage is well reflected in the inventory for storage, in particular in the potential supplementary inventory, in the accompanying environmental impact report. As the title indicates, this potential complementary inventory could in the future be added to the baseline inventory, but it is the baseline inventory that is used to date in the cost estimates of future geological storage. In this supplementary inventory, the volume of radioactive waste from the Olen site is at this indicative stage: 10 000 m3 before packaging. It's clear, though. If you want, I can send you, not to continue indefinitely this game of hide-and-seek between a partial question and a partial answer, the whole of my answer, where you will see all the nuances that should be brought to the way you deal with the question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u31	Minister, it is indeed essential to provide a full response. Indeed, as we know, these wastes account for 10,000 m3 of potential complement. It is therefore not this inventory that is taken as the basic inventory for the geological storage project that is currently subject to consultation. It is therefore precisely these additional 10 000 m3 which are not conditioned, and one realizes the difficulty here, which for me should now be taken into account in the nuclear provisions which must be formed by the company Umicore. This is essential, because otherwise, it is the taxpayer who will have to drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u32	We are not going to debate, it is not a debate. I propose to send you the entire answer, and you will come back to me after you have examined it. Thus, we will speak on the same basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am referring to the question that has been communicated to you. The aim of this question is to know the total cost of cleaning up, dismantling and managing nuclear waste at Best Medical in Fleurus. The last news was 126 million euros – I'm not sure. I would like to know the updated amount and the share of each federated entity in terms of financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u35	Mr President, Member, in the context of the third report on the inventory of nuclear liabilities published in 2012 covering the period 2007-2011, the cost of reorganising and dismantling the liabilities of Best Medical Belgium was estimated at EUR 52.8 million expressed in the 2010 economic conditions. This amount was based on information from Nordion's initial decommissioning plan, which is the former operator before Best Medical. Subsequently, this cost was re-evaluated by ONDRAF as an operator, and on several occasions in the context of the fourth nuclear liability inventory report we have just mentioned, as well as following the studies carried out with a view to drawing up the final decommissioning plan. The latest estimate made in March 2020, as part of the establishment of the ONDRAF financing agreement...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u36	Can you speak a little slower, Madam Secretary? The interpreters can't follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u37	Mr President, I will make an effort to keep my pace tight. Subsequently, this cost was re-evaluated by ONDRAF as an operator on several occasions in the context of the fourth nuclear liability inventory report and also following studies to establish the final decommissioning plan. The latest estimate made in March 2020 in connection with the establishment of the financing agreement between ONDRAF and the Walloon Region is EUR 131.6 million, expressed in the 2017 economic conditions. For the time being, this amount is distributed as follows: EUR 122.6 million from the Walloon Region and EUR 9 million from the ONDRAF insolvency fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u38	Minister, thank you for your clear and precise answers. I note that we have more than doubled this cost of dismantling and waste management at the Best Medical Fleurus site. We've grown from 52 million to 131 million euros this year. Hence the need to be able to provide and guarantee the necessary and sufficient provisions for the dismantling and management of all radioactive waste produced in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u39	Mr. Chair, Minister, to quantify security of electricity supply, reliability standards have been defined: LoLE (Loss of Load Expectation) and EENS (Expected Energy Non Served). While the methodology that defines these criteria is based on a European methodology developed by the ENSO-E, each Member State of the European Union today decides on the level of security of supply. Currently, Article 7a of the Belgian Electricity Act stipulates that a LoLE of three hours or less per year is acceptable, combined with a LoLE of twenty hours or less once every twenty years. European Regulation No 2019/943 provides, however, that a new European methodology must be developed to determine the reliability standard. Minister, what is the status of this European methodology for redefining the reliability standard for security of supply? When could it be used to recalculate reliability standards in Belgium? According to CREG, the "LoLE" reliability standard currently defined at three hours/year should evolve to a six hour/year LoLE with the new methodology. As an illustration, in Ireland the standard is eight hours. Do you confirm this likely increase in the reliability standard? I am well aware that we have already dealt with these issues last week, but I would like to repeat and reformulate these issues even more clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u40	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, you did ask this question on 20 May 2020. Meanwhile, as you pointed out, we have had a full day of hearings on all these issues. My answer may seem a bit academic, but if you wish to come back to me later on this subject, given the answers given in the hearings, do not hesitate to do so. Article 23 of Regulation No 2019/943 on electricity, which entered into force on 1 January 2020, provides that a reliability standard will now have to be expressed in terms of LoLE (Loss of Load Expectation) and EENS (Expected Energy Non Served) and that it will have to be determined according to a European methodology. Meanwhile, ENSO-E, the European network of transmission system operators for electricity, as prescribed by the Regulation, has submitted a proposal for a methodology to the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) and is currently carrying out a consultation on it. It should be noted that "ENTSO-E recommends, in its proposal, to express the standard only in terms of LoLE, in the absence of a targeted level of economically sound ENS". I quote the European recommendation as it stands. Once this methodology has been approved, the Member State will then have to determine a reliability standard after a proposal by the national regulator. I am, of course, this issue on a daily basis, as you know. I've been looking into it. Belgium should not be expected to be in a position to determine this standard before 2021. I am continuing with the answer that has been prepared for me. I don't approve of anything other than what the law provides. I am obliged, in the absence of other legal indications, to apply the law as it exists today, and I have already said so on several occasions. The law on the organisation of the electricity market provides, as you know, in Article 7a(2) that the level of security of supply to be achieved is determined by three criteria. First, where appropriate, harmonised standards established by the relevant European institutions, which do not exist in a new form today, are needed. Secondly, in the absence of harmonised standards at European level, harmonised standards should be set, where appropriate, at regional level, in particular at central and western European electricity markets. Thirdly, in the absence of such standards, it is necessary to calculate LoLE less than three hours and LoLE 95 less than twenty hours, by which the missing power volumes necessary to ensure security of supply are determined. This is the legal framework in which we still operate today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u41	Madam Minister, I was not surprised by your answer, of course. My reply may not surprise you either. However, I would like to point out that, in our view, the CREG's argument that the volt would increase from EUR 23,300 per kWh to EUR 10 000 per kWh seems to us to be well founded. It would increase the security of supply criterion to six hours instead of three hours. For us there is no reason to be as severe as what the law imposes today. It is better to be realistic about the value of a kWh not supplied, in order to be able to assess the actual capacity needs to be built. We find it a pity that reliability standards are not adapted in our country, before a decision as crucial as the establishment of a CRM with a defined capacity is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u42	Mr President, I was somewhat surprised that this issue had not been included in the topical debate on the first item on the agenda of our meeting, since it deals with the same subject. Having listened carefully to the answers given during the debate, my speech will be rather short. Minister, you have stated that the public consultation is only about the decision-making principle of geological burial, as the definition of host rock is not yet finalized. You have already answered the second part of my question, which was intended to provide an overview of the definition of the rock to be stopped or the geographic areas that might be appropriate to the needs. You said that Boom's clay layer was not excluded. Nevertheless, it is up to us that it faces various problems and that it is neither deep enough nor thick enough. Nor would it withstand the heat emitted by nuclear waste – you said the opposite. The situation is all the more problematic as it lies just above the country's second groundwater table. It would therefore be necessary to bury the waste deeper, which would increase the bill for waste storage from EUR 3 billion to EUR 10 billion. Minister, do you confirm that the burial of nuclear waste in the Boom clay layer will have to take place deeper than originally envisaged and that this will significantly increase the cost of storage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u43	Mr President, I am somewhat surprised that your question could not be included in the previous debate. Since you were here, I thank you for listening to my very long answer. Of course, the question of the location of geological storage is not on the agenda – I will repeat this again often – and is not the central theme of the consultation. The ONDRAF has been studying for more than forty years, with national and international partners, including the SCK CEN, the behaviour of clays as host rocks for storage. It is scientifically proven that these clays have adequate characteristics for deep storage and are not adversely affected by the heat released from the waste. These aspects of host rock selection will result in funding impacts as the process takes decades. Let us note that this funding is based on the polluter-pays principle – an obligation on Electrabel. You have heard what is currently happening with ONDRAF's assessments in terms of nuclear supplies, which meet this obligation and amount to EUR 10.7 billion. It is clear that, depending on the evolution of the process, these assessments will continue on a regular basis, in accordance with the law, and will not go down at all – on the contrary. The aim is to ensure the availability of all the necessary money when the facilities are to be built to store the waste. That is my answer at this point. Don't hesitate to come back to me on this. Since other steps still need to be taken, you know that the Nuclear Supplies Commission regularly re-evaluates them. On the side of ONDRAF, this statutory assessment may be set at a step-by-step level to take account of developments in the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. I agree with you on the figures that have been cited and that will be revised upwards since they do not include inflation or discounting in constant value of 2017, as you said for the 10.7 billion. I hope that the amounts will be properly assessed and that the provisions will also be correct in relation to the rather huge cost of storing these waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u45	Minister, the CRM Task Force is led by Elia and serves as a consultation platform between the transmission system operator and key stakeholders (production and demand operators and environmental organisations). The consultation is conducted through an iterative transparent process, with proposals from the CRM Follow-up Committee being regularly submitted to the user group. Therefore, why is the CRM task force led by Elia? How was this choice made? In addition, Bond Beer Leefmilieu (BBL), Inter-Environnement Wallonie (IEW) and Greenpeace wrote a public note in 2019 stating that according to European legislation, CRM is a measure of last resort and that the federal government and regional governments must make every effort to avoid it. How has their views been taken into account in the Monitoring Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you once again to slow down the debate so that the interpreters can follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u47	Mr. Chair, Minister, it is June 10 and the MRC file is largely bogged down. I note in particular from our last meeting last week that we are still discussing the principle of setting up a CRM, since the CREG is brutally opposed to it. We are still discussing the development of the volume and even the influence of the climate on winters in Belgium. The question of its funding was also discussed, but it is indeed an urgent matter. Strangely enough, an MR MP has a resolution asking you, Minister of Energy MR of Mrs Wilmès' government, to move forward on this issue. You will agree that this approach is very special, as I have already said on several occasions. All of this because you are not in a position to convince your government partners to take the orders and assume your responsibilities yourself. All the more so since you simply don't need a resolution to publish a financing order. All this while 2025, the year of the nuclear release according to the legal deadlines that we voted for, is already tomorrow, as Engie points out, which also calls for a clarification of the timetable, urgently. All this while the European Union has clearly announced that there will be an in-depth investigation of the CRM of at least one year. So there will be no auction for 2021, in any case one can doubt it. No auction in 2021 and therefore no solution to ensure security of electricity supply within the legal framework of the nuclear exit. Minister, do you think the deadlines are still tenable? What is the outcome of your recent CRM meetings within the Monitoring Committee? I say to you unequivocally: I am very worried! Since all our last debates in this committee, I have been even more so. What initiatives have you taken as a minister? I would like a precise back-planning of the CRM, including the deadline for completing the notification file, and including the average one-year deadline for the in-depth investigation, all in the light of the nuclear release schedule. How many power plants do you see being built by 2025 to ensure the availability of nuclear-exit capabilities? Elia and CREG do not agree on the question of the gap to be filled, on the methodology for developing this volume. What is your position in this regard? What about the public impact study that you have to carry out as part of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 extension? Will Belgium be in time to meet the requirement of the Constitutional Court? If this is not the case, what are you planning to fill this capacity gap?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u48	Mr President, in reply to Mr Warmoes' question, I should like to point out that the CRM task force is not led but is chaired only by Elia. This difference has significant substantive implications. This task force usually meets in the premises of Elias. I could deduce from your question that the regulator would be led by the system operator. Deceiving yourself, this is absolutely not the case, especially since it has come to this task force to meet in my office and every speaker acts with the greatest independence. The proof of this is that the CREG expresses itself freely and systematically whenever it wishes. The others, too. Everyone is free to speak, and we saw last week that all stakeholders were of the same opinion, with the exception of CREG. The Monitoring Committee has chosen to use the already existing platform of the Users' Groups of Elias to consult the sector. The CRM Follow-up Committee collegiately decides on the items on the agenda of the CRM Task Force, exactly as when you settle your work within the Committee. Belgium's implementation plan submitted to DG Energy in November 2019 analyses the functioning of the market in accordance with European regulations and concludes that, despite the measures listed in the plan, both regional, federal, current and future and related to market improvement, a capacity compensation mechanism is required to address the challenges expected by 2025. I will also recall that, on 19 September 2019, I instructed DG Energy to "provide it, as the public authority responsible for supply, with the assistance of the Planning Office, with an analysis of the remarks made by CREG in its 1957 study, and to make a clear and quick determination as to whether or not there is a need to ensure security of supply". The study was released on October 2, 2019. The findings of the study, which are still relevant, clearly confirm the need for a CRM. Moreover, since the strategic reserve is to be considered a measure before the possible implementation of a remuneration mechanism, its usefulness after 2025 was also verified before concluding on the need for a market-wide mechanism to pay for capacity in Belgium. Indeed, the strategic reserve covers only the winter period, as you know, while the CRM can cover the entire year. The capabilities participating in the strategic reserve operate outside the market, while for a CRM they operate in the market. This means, therefore, that the capabilities that participate in the strategic reserve do not generate market revenue and therefore demand a total remuneration of the costs for their retention, that they request to remain in the strategic reserve and to use them when it is necessary, in plain terms, for their general availability. This therefore makes this mechanism less expensive to attract capabilities that are unfortunately never new. Moreover, few existing capacities are available at the moment, since they are all on the market and have therefore not chosen to work within a circumscribed area outside the market. As the strategic reserve is to be considered before the possible implementation of a capacity compensation mechanism, its usefulness has been verified and as a result, we cannot count on the strategic reserve to cover the need that has been calculated and that we must reach by 2025. Existing capacities are no more developed today. We will not attract investors if we do not give a signal. And it is precisely because we have to give this signal that we will be able to meet the need and attract to our territory new and efficient capacities that will enable us to make our production fleet robust. Mr Ben Achour, I have no doubt that you will come back frequently throughout this process with the same questions. They will receive the answers that will have to be given according to the current situation and the evolution of the file. When you say that I do not "need a resolution to issue a financing order", I would remind you that paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of Article 7quaterdecies of the CRM Act clearly states that the financing of the CRM falls under the legislative authority, like any tax and levy, and that the legislator has delegated this power to the King, as indicated in paragraph 1. You know – and you pass each time – that we are in everyday business, so the King cannot act. In addition, an order referred to in paragraph 1 shall be deemed never to have been effective if it is not confirmed by law within twelve months of its coming into force. Secondly, I would like to know your source when you speak in an affirmative way of the announcement by DG Competition of its firm decision to conduct an in-depth investigation for a year. In addition, the CRM Monitoring Committee continues its work with a view to making the auction effective in October 2021. As Minister of Energy, I am very close to the development work of the mechanism. I would like to remind you that my cabinet is part of the bodies that are members of the Monitoring Committee in the same way as the others. As far as timing is concerned, it has already been repeated many times that a decision on the method of financing is expected to complete our notification file with Europe, which will lead to the resumption of the timing, of which you know the timing of the auction – in October 2021. You are also aware of all the intermediate steps that have been discussed at length, if you had the opportunity to participate in our committee last week in the hearings. As far as I am concerned, I do not have to predict the result of the calculation of the volumes of the auctions. As you have already been informed in Parliament by DG Energy, the consultation on the reference scenario launched by Elia has not yet been completed. Work on the launch of the public procurement for the EIA study (environmental impact study) is under way and I obviously confirm my ambition to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 after 2022. Every effort is being made to ensure that this environmental study is done on time and that we can present to your Parliament a correction to the law that meets the requirements of the Constitutional Court's 2021 ruling. In this way, we will have time to look at the whole file, which will certainly be very rich and very voluminous, so that you have all the information you need to position yourself with regard to the amending law that will have to be voted by 31 December 2022 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u49	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. You have not fully answered the second part of my question on the note from environmental organizations. You replied that it had not been taken into account and I understand that. But has it been seriously discussed in the follow-up committee? I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u50	I can come back to you with more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u51	All right. Thank you. It is a bit surprising to hear that the strategic reserve covers only winter. It is quite obvious that it is precisely in winter that the demand for electricity is highest, as we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u52	Not necessarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u53	The whole discussion of the capacity to anticipate focuses on the issue of winters. Secondly, if I am well informed, it would cost 210 million euros to make the strategic reserve available. This has been estimated, but is still less than the estimate of Elia and PwC for CRM. This would cost less to the taxpayer and the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u54	Minister, I did not think it would be necessary to remind you that you are not involved in a government in day-to-day business. You are a member of a full-fledged minority government. In addition, you know that the CRM Act provides that an order must first be made and then confirmed by Parliament. But the first step is a stop, and you take the whole procedure backwards. I was telling you when I asked you my questions. I was concerned about the fulfilment of the commitments we made with regard to the schedule and exit of the 2025 nuclear power plant. I am even more worried after hearing your answer, which, in fact, brings nothing new. As the days pass and time passes, nothing moves in your lead and the CRM file becomes more and more bogged down. It's been months since you've been trampling on this issue, months since you've been taking your responsibilities as Minister of Energy to propose a royal financing order, weeks since you've been trying to send the ball back to Parliament so that you don't assume that nuclear release times are likely to be getting harder and harder to keep up with. You've been keeping this blurred for months, refusing to give us a detailed CRM calendar. By this I mean a calendar with dates, durations, concrete deadlines, on a sheet A4. I ask you again: could you provide me with this simple document? As far as my source is concerned about the Commission's in-depth investigation, I am going to surprise you, but the information was announced in an article in La Libre dated 20 February. He himself quoted a source close to the file. I quote the article: "There is a very good chance that the European Commission will demand a public inquiry into the CRM. This implies that the processing time for the file is an average of one year, and a maximum of eighteen months, instead of two months." Subsequently, on 3 March last in committee to be exact, you yourself said: "There are informal elements indicating that the Commission is planning to open an in-depth investigation." You see, therefore, that I have not invented anything about the setting up of such an in-depth investigation by the Commission. As far as the duration of the investigation is concerned, we have repeatedly heard in the Climate Committee that an average period of one year should be expected. Last week, PwC's consultant referred to the in-depth investigation of the Polish degression system for the financing of CRM. As far as I understand, this is a much less voluminous case for Poland than the whole CRM mechanism that Belgium is currently notifying. It may also be less problematic, given the position of the national regulator in our country. However, this Polish case has been under thorough investigation since April 2019. This investigation has lasted for more than a year for a file that is a priori less cumbersome and less complex. In conclusion, if my group has always taken on its responsibilities when necessary, it will never take the lead of a government that is disunited, unaligned, unable to take on its responsibilities and that plays with our nuclear-exit commitments, on the one hand, and security of supply, on the other. Therefore, if the deadlines for exit are no longer tenable, I ask you, minister, to show some courage and to assume it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u55	"The Energy Charter Treaty constitutes an environmental and democratic danger. In particular, it allows energy industry and investment funds to sue States Parties before arbitration tribunals when they consider themselves aggrieved by environmental policy measures designed to align with the Paris objectives, which has already cost European taxpayers more than €750 million in public money in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u56	How does Belgium intend to promote, within the revised TEC, the binding objectives of environmental protection and CO2 reduction by preventing them from eroding in the face of the protection of private investment?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u57	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u58	•Is the content of the Commission's mandate likely to evolve and encompass the disappearance of the protection of fossil investments and the repeal of the ISDS arbitration mechanism? Should Belgium not plead in this respect?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u59	Unlike my colleagues, I will not refer to the written text of my question, because people follow online and they need to know what it is. I shall, however, somewhat shorten the question. Minister, the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) allows energy investors and investment funds to sue states in private arbitration tribunals (ISDS) if these investors consider themselves directly or indirectly injured. It is the most widely used investment protection treaty in private arbitration courts. Investors can thus obtain up to several billion euros of compensation for their future profits at the expense of the general interest. This treaty thus undermines the ability of States to regulate and has a major negative impact on democracy, because it limits the room for manoeuvre of States. The amounts can be so high that in the end, the mere threat of recourse to the ISDS private court mechanism is sometimes sufficient to make the states comply. In 2019, we experienced such threats. There have been 128 known cases and EUR 51.6 billion have been paid by the states, not to mention the amicable arrangements resulting from these threats. Examples include the case of Electrabel, which attacked Hungary in 2015, following measures taken by Hungary to lower the price of electricity. In Belgium, civil society is mobilizing and is calling for, among other things, the immediate abolition of provisions giving companies more power than the states, the abolition of the sunset clause, which allows investors to attack the states up to 20 years after the notification of exit, which is, for example, a problem for Italy, which has emerged from this treaty but is still suffering the consequences. Minister, how did the first TEC modernization session, currently under discussion, take place in April 2020? What were your proposals and demands? Could you give us a report on the progress of these discussions? Secondly, the negotiations will continue in July. Will you listen to civil society and take into account its demands to advocate for the withdrawal of those provisions that weaken States from investors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u60	Madam Minister, on 12 December 2019 the timetable was set, as well as the issues to be negotiated as a matter of priority. Four multi-day negotiating sessions were planned for 2020: April, July, October and December. With the explicit support of Belgium, the European Union has requested and obtained that priority be given to the negotiation of provisions affecting sustainable development, the fight against climate change under the Paris Agreements and the transition to a low carbon economy, as well as the provisions on transparency and corporate social responsibility. You have already said that the mandate of the European Commission does not, however, include the end of the protection of investments in fossil fuels. This means that Belgium can be subpoenaed by investors in fossil fuels for some of its environmental protection choices for arbitration tribunals. Can you give an update on Belgium's preparation and involvement in the preparation of the multi-day negotiating sessions? Has the April 2020 negotiating session taken place at all? If yes, can you report the results of that session in full corona time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u61	Mr President, I would like to understand. I will answer the questions in the order in which they were asked. Should I also answer Mr Verduyckt's question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u62	Mr President, I shall reply successively to Mr Cogolati's questions. Ben Achour, Mr. Warmoes and Mr. Ravyts, in that order. There will be rehearsals at times, although the questions have different accents. I beg your pardon. Mr Cogolati, Belgium did not attend the meeting of the steering group on 20 May, as it had not received an invitation. The European delegation, on the other hand, debriefed this informal working group within the working groups on the energy and trade sectors. An oral debriefing of this informal meeting was also given at the modernisation group on 2 June. The participants in the steering group are: the European Commission, Georgia, Japan, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the Vice-Presidents of the Modernisation Group and the secretariat of the European Commission. The purpose of this informal group is to facilitate negotiations, especially organizational ones, in order to enable the meeting to be held by videoconference on 2 June. In view of the discussion on the negotiating agenda, the European Union's compromise proposal was presented. As a contracting party, Belgium participated in the meeting on 2 June, which was mainly intended to discuss mainly organisational aspects and to approve the timing and mandate for the negotiations. An important point was the adoption of the agenda for the first cycle. For Belgium, it is important to talk about investment protection as early as July, which is a problem for some contracting parties such as Japan and Kazakhstan. At the meeting on 2 June, agreement was reached on the agenda and the 25 topics on the agenda. Additions may be made by unanimous agreement for the rounds of negotiations to be held in July, September and November. This is a compromise proposal approved by the EU, with Belgium's support in the spirit of consensus, and the importance of finally starting negotiations after a year and a half of discussions on the subject. For Belgium, it is important to clarify what is involved in protecting investments in certain sectors in these types of international agreements. The investment protection agreements provide that investments by one of the parties to the agreement in the territory of the other party to the agreement, first, shall be treated fairly and fairly, second, shall not be discriminated against in relation to national investments in comparable situations, thirdly, may be expropriated only for public purposes, in accordance with due process, on a non-discriminatory basis and with fair, adequate and effective compensation. It should be stressed that the establishment of such a system is not intended to prevent governments, at national, regional or other levels, from adopting new regulations of general interest, but rather to prevent investors from being unduly discriminated against. Thus, the failure to end the protection of investments in fossil fuels will not prevent the European Union and States from adopting environmental legislation and measures to implement the Paris Agreement until they are discriminatory. To this end, the European Union wishes to modernise the provisions of the Energy Charter Treaty in order to clarify and reaffirm the right to regulate States in the Energy Charter Treaty. The negotiating mandate entrusted to the European Commission by the Member States of the European Union, as set out in the Paris Agreement in its General Principles and Objectives and Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility sections, must lead to a negotiated outcome in line with the mandate given by the Council. The first proposal for a European Union text was sent to the negotiating parties and was published on the DG Trade website. Mr. Ben Achour, the session originally scheduled for April last year was not held because of the VOCID-19 pandemic. The first round of negotiations will take place from 6 to 9 July inclusive. Further rounds will then be held in September and November, as I have just indicated. Both Belgium and the European Commission will participate. As you know, the preparatory meeting was held on 2 June and focused on organizational aspects. Our country has participated. The Commission's mandate can always evolve if the Member States so wish, but it is now too late. On the other hand, in view of the Belgian position, including the disappearance of the protection of investments in fossil fuels would not be a good strategy, since this would lead to total opposition from the members of Central Asia and would block any process of modernization and, therefore, of adaptation to the Paris Agreements. On the other hand, we cannot turn to the ISDS option. Indeed, without arbitration, the Treaty is deprived of its raison d'être. Investment protection would no longer be guaranteed. Furthermore, we would like to stress that the term "investment protection" does not mean that, in the event of arbitration, the objective of the Treaty is to give investors systematic reason. This is obvious, for example, in the Dunamenti Erőms case. Mr Warmoes, the negotiating session scheduled for April was not held because of the pandemic and will take place from 6 to 9 July. The preparatory meeting was held on 2 June. You know the content and the debriefing. The aim of the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty is to guarantee the right of regulation for the Contracting States to the Energy Charter Treaty and to make it compatible with current trends and with climate and environmental objectives. For Belgium, it is important to clarify what is involved in protecting investment in certain sectors in this type of international agreement. The investment protection agreements provide for the protection of investments by one of the parties to the agreement in the territory of the other party. It will be stressed that the introduction of such a system is in no way intended to prevent governments from enacting new regulations of general interest, but simply to prevent investors from being discriminated against wrongly. This will not prevent the adoption of environmental legislation and measures to implement the Paris Agreement, as long as they are not discriminatory in the sense I have just said. With regard to the question of withdrawal of provisions, it was not possible to move towards that option, since, in the absence of an arbitration mechanism, the treaty no longer had any raison d'être. As I said earlier, we would like to point out that the term "investment protection" – I will never repeat it enough – does not mean that in the event of arbitration, the treaty is systematically intended to give investors a right. I cited the Hungarian example. Mr Ravyts, the negotiating session, initially scheduled for April 2020, has not continued because of the corana virus. As a Contracting Party, Belgium took part in the meeting of 2 June, which focused on the organisational aspects, timing and approval of the mandate of the negotiations. An important point was the adoption of the agenda for the first cycle of negotiations, which will thus start in July. For Belgium, it is important to talk about investment protection from the first round of these negotiations, which will take place from 6 to 9 July. An agreement was reached at the meeting on 2 June on the agenda and on 25 subjects. By unanimous agreement, there can be additions to the negotiating rounds which will take place in July, September and November and in which Belgium will participate. This is a compromise proposal adopted by the EU with the support of Belgium, in the spirit of consensus and the importance of finally starting negotiations after a year and a half of discussion. Mr Ravyts, you say that Belgium can be attacked by fossil fuel investors for some of its environmental protection choices for arbitration tribunals. I can reassure you on this point. The aim of the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty is to ensure the right of the Contracting States to regulate the Energy Charter Treaty and to make it more compatible with current trends and climate and environmental objectives. For Belgium, it is important to clarify what investment protection implies in some sectors in this type of international agreement. The investment protection agreements shall determine the investments of one of the Contracting Parties in the territory of the other Contracting Party in the Agreement. It will be pointed out that the purpose of the introduction of such systems is not to prevent national, regional or other governments from adopting new regulations of general interest, but rather to prevent unfair discrimination on the part of investors. In other words, this will not prevent the adoption of environmental legislation and measures to implement the Paris Agreement as long as they are not discriminatory. Fighting for investment protection to be applied to renewable energy is the only right fight, as it puts all energy sources on an equal footing instead of creating legal discrimination. Given the current trend, this is precisely what renewable energy sources lack in order to win the battle against fossil energy sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u63	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will be very brief to save time. Two problems remain: firstly, the arbitration mechanism is not in line with the latest case law of the European Court of Justice; secondly, investments or, in any case, the protection of investments that continue to exist in fossil energy, seems to be in frontal opposition to the sustainable and climate development objectives that we committed ourselves to achieving on the occasion of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. In my view, we must resolutely move towards the modernisation of this Treaty by setting up beacons, which have, moreover, been explained by SNCD 11.11.11. These are the following: to bring the TEC into line with the Paris Agreements, which will enable the European Union to preserve its credibility as a world leader in the ecological and social transition, to abolish the ISDS arbitration mechanism and to neutralise the survival clause which prolongs its effects for 20 years, to suspend any new accession to the TEC in its present form, to consider the exit of this Treaty after the last round of modernisation negotiations, in the event that the requests are not met, obviously taking into account all the effects that such withdrawal would entail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have heard that the current reform is intended to reaffirm the right of states to regulate. This is a positive point. However, I do not understand how the representatives of the time could so disequilibrate the balance of power between States, governments in principle democratically elected, and investors in nuclear energy and fossil fuels. No doubt, it was the time and the old recipes of the latter that guided these choices. You said – it's happy! He wouldn't have missed anything but that! – that the decisions of the ISDS private court did not necessarily make investors right to the detriment of the states. Nevertheless, it remains a private tribunal, which implies an undemocratic aspect that we do not accept. In addition, the mere fact of threatening by filing a complaint and bringing a case before the court is sometimes sufficient for investors to win the case. I will mention another example than yours, the one in 2009 of Vattenfall's intimidation of the German state with regard to the environmental standards of a coal-fired power plant on its territory. Vattenfall claimed EUR 1.4 billion and, in order to avoid payment of this sum, Germany has lowered the environmental standards of this coal-fired power plant. This did not prevent Vattenfall from again attacking Germany by claiming EUR 6.1 billion on the grounds that Germany accelerated its nuclear exit plan following the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Bullying therefore remains a tool. You said that the arbitration mechanism was essential and that without it, the treaty no longer had any raison d'être. That being the case, we are not going to complain if this treaty no longer has its raison d'être and should be abolished. In the end, your answer does not reassure us of the modernisation of this Treaty, which would be commensurate with the demands of civil society, which my colleague, Mr Ben Achour, repeated. From then on, civil society will mobilize and be able to rely on the PTB to put people before profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u66	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the state of play regarding the preparation and content of the negotiating sessions, as well as for clarifying the existing arbitration mechanism, the issue of discrimination against investors and so on. We will, of course, continue to follow up the dossier, as the necessary re-negotiation, which we support, will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u67	Madam Minister, much has been said about the Energy Charter. That dates back to 1998. In the energy sector, I think it is called antiquity. It is quite clear that this is problematic. There are plenty of examples of this given by colleagues. It puts a brake on Europe's policy to rank out fossil fuels. However, we must look forward. You did, Madam Secretary. I cannot in itself say much about your principles, because they seem fine to me. We shall see what the negotiations produce, because they seem to me to be quite complex and technical. I remember that you look at that fairly optimisticly and try to reassure us, but we are still getting other signals today. There is sufficient attention to this treaty in Parliament to ensure that the result is what we want, namely towards a different type of energy from the 1990s.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic200x.u68	The remaining questions will be postponed until the next committee meeting.
