ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Wouter De Vriendt, Samuel Cogolati, Christophe Lacroix, Séverine de Laveleye, Georges Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u3	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1071/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1071/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Jadin who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u4	Mr President, I should like to make a brief statement on this resolution. We have tabled this resolution with a number of objectives in both the humanitarian, political and legal fields, in order to address the situation in Idlib. That is what is urgently needed. The UN is also calling for more humanitarian aid funds. Our resolution has received a majority in the Committee on External Relations. I would like to thank my fellow Members for that. Our resolution contains three parts. The most important and concrete of these is the humanitarian component, which calls on the government to provide for an additional contribution on the budget line of humanitarian projects, in addition to the funds already provided for this year, to some three funds. Firstly, the Humanitarian Fund for Syria, for which EUR 7 million was already foreseen this year. Secondly, the Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund, for which EUR 7 million was already foreseen this year. Thirdly, the Central Emergency Response Fund, for which EUR 17 million was already foreseen this year. This resolution calls on the government to release additional funds and to respond to the call of the United Nations, in view of the serious humanitarian needs in the region. On the diplomatic front, we call on the government to commit itself to extending the UN cross-border assistance mechanism for the north-west of Syria and for cross-border access to the north-east. The third part concerns a number of legal questions, requiring the Commission of Inquiry on Syria and non-governmental human rights organisations to have unhindered access to the country in order to make the necessary findings. We are also making a plea to try to bring those suspected of war crimes and crimes against humanity to justice. We have also had a discussion on this in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u5	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to the proposal put forward by my fellow Members. As in committee, our amendments form the basis for my speech. You know that Flemish interest often refers to reception in the region as a solution to the refugee problem in Europe, because according to our group, refugees would be better received in the region of origin, for example in neighbouring countries. After all, they do not have to undertake a dangerous journey to Europe for which they have to pay a great deal of money to smugglers, with all the consequences. In addition, they could return to their own countries more quickly if that home country became safer again. Finally, this could solve many problems in Europe associated with migration, especially illegal migration. For these reasons, we have tabled a number of amendments in committee. First of all, we want to add to the proposal the statement that reception in the region is preferable to illegal migration in every respect and for all concerned. A third amendment is not now on the table and I will simply put it to the vote. Our second amendment is very important and has just been referred to by Mr De Vriendt. Indeed, an essential element of the resolution proposal is an additional contribution to the United Nations HRRP. We believe that if this is to be done, these resources should be sought in the donation of the Federal Agency for the Reception of Asylum seekers. By allocating additional resources for the reception of refugees in the region, we can save on the reception of asylum seekers in Belgium, and a shift of these resources seems to us to be very fair and fair. Mr President, with this I also have our amendments which will be justified again in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u6	Mr President, as a penholder with Germany and Kuwait in the Security Council on the subject at hand, the government can certainly play a significant role. That does not apply to all the resolutions in the Chamber, but the resolution before us can therefore get its feet in order to express it in this way, and have more meaning than a run-up. The agreement between Turkey and Russia has resulted in a ceasefire, which is always precarious. The proxy conflict in Libya and the condition in Idlib sometimes give the impression of being communicating vessels. The situation that is very unstable in one region usually has an impact on the other. The question of a cease-fire and keeping a humanitarian corridor or humanitarian corridors open seems to be the most ethically responsible choice. We support that choice, albeit not without some reservations, which I would like to formulate here. From a strictly rational point of view, there are arguments against this choice. Of course, they offer a breather, which is a good thing for the population. However, there is a risk that the conflict will be extended and that support for jihadic groups with direct ties with Al Qaeda will be offered. We must not be naive. These corridors, which are intended to bring food to the population, which is an initiative that needs to be supported, can and will probably also be abused at least in part for the transport of weapons and ammunition. A no-fly zone is of course a protection for the defenceless citizen, but it is of course also for the jihadis. Freezing at a certain time of the status quo is not just black and white a positive thing. We must keep that element in mind when discussing the text before us. We do not, of course, want there to be a so-called frozen conflict in the Idlib region, with a de facto permanent Turkish occupation, as there is one at the Golan Heights, for example. In other words, we really have to choose between two potential evils. We in the N-VA are particularly sensitive to the use of funds for reception and protection in the region, which hopefully prevents a number of people from taking very dangerous and expensive trips of thousands of kilometres. That is certainly an argument that has to play with this. Originally, the situation at the Turkish-Greek border and any material or moral support from Turkey to fighting groups in Idlib were not mentioned. We thought that was a shortcoming. We thought that was a flaw. This has been dealt with by amendments which, I believe, have improved the text. That has also proved to be true, because I may not be the only one who has received a letter from the Turkish ambassador in recent days, who was rather moderately enthusiastic about the adjustments. If it is my job to be here for the sake of the Turkish ambassador in all circumstances, that could be an argument. But that is not the case. I read that letter, but it doesn't change our minds. We shall therefore support this resolution, although we must realise that, like everything else in the world, this text is not entirely risk-free, especially in the international battlefield which confuses everything in the Middle East. But the pros are considering the risks, and we will support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pros are up against the counters, all the more so because the situation in Idlib is really poignant. It concerns 1 million people, of which 81 percent are women and children. The UN is talking about the biggest humanitarian horror story of the 21st century. There are no alternatives to humanitarian corridors for the time being. We must accept our responsibility and give humanitarian aid. People live in tents and trees. The winter with the worst cold is fortunately over, but diseases are still around, including COVID-19. Living conditions therefore cost human lives. We are therefore kicking in an open door when we say that humanitarian aid is urgently needed. Our country has made a great deal of efforts in recent years. Last year our country provided EUR 21 million in humanitarian aid. This year is EUR 14 million for the time being, but of course we can do more. The UN states that additional resources are needed for the humanitarian emergency plan for North-West Syria, to which Mr De Vriendt also referred. We confirmed our commitment to the UN Security Council in February. I think it is useful for Parliament to support that. We are grateful for the submission of this motion for a resolution, which we also fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us today calls for increased humanitarian aid in northern Syria. With my group, of course, we are in favour of this humanitarian aid and we support the people who are suffering from a war that has been going on for too long. This resolution is aimed primarily at Russia and Syria. It is clear that these forces have their responsibility in this conflict and use reprehensible methods. However, other forces are equally responsible and accountable for the situation in the region. They are completely absent from this resolution. I am thinking of Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Israel. I am also thinking of forces like Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, who is the last incarnation of the Nusra Front and who controls much of the Idlib region. Al-Nusra was the Syrian branch of al-Qaeda, the Front de libération nationale, an alliance supported by Turkey, which includes pure and hard Islamist groups as well as several groups fighting under the banner of the Free Syrian Army. A branch of al-Qaeda, the Islamic Party of Turkistan, not all these actors are mentioned in this resolution when they play an important role in northern Syria. If, in this text, we must not limit ourselves to humanitarian aid and take a political position, we want all belligerents to be taken into account. We must not be biased or reducers in a war involving several foreign actors. Mr President, we shall abstain on this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u9	Mr. President, please excuse me for my slight delay. Madam and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, while we discussed earlier in this plenary session the potential resumption for Belgium of military missions via its F-16s in the coalition against Daesh, this text is obviously essential. For my group, as I recall, the resolution of global conflicts is - more than an anti-enne, it is a conviction rooted in us - by strengthening multilateralism and respecting international law. This is tantamount to giving priority to prevention, dialogue and diplomacy at all levels, even in times of crisis. From this point of view, the fundamental role of the United Nations and the European Union must be given priority. At our level, permanent dialogue between the Departments of Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Affairs must be pursued in the formulation of policies, in particular in terms of conflict monitoring and post-conflict reconstruction, in order to ensure lasting peace and coherence in development policies. We must never underestimate the stakes of "after" in the long term, at the risk of reviving the same horrors. Unfortunately, in this case, we are still in the "now". Indeed, we are all aware of the current situation in this part of the world from which a particularly atrocious human suffering arises. Meanwhile, diplomatic progress appears to have stalled and the security situation is far from improved, as evidenced by the presence of numerous militias and terrorist groups. I am not even talking about the impunity that seems to prevail, while various international reports follow each other to show on many occasions the horror of the abuses of the Syrian regime, both in the use of chemical weapons and in strikes against schools or hospitals. The crisis of the VOCID-19 has led to this situation, however unsustainable it may be, going under radar. This text is essential. That is why I co-signed it with, of course, the agreement of my group. Until a structural solution for peace is found and international organizations and justice can act freely, our country must maintain its strong and coherent three-D strategy in the region, particularly in the humanitarian sphere. It is the meaning of this text that calls on the government to provide in the short term for the provision of additional funds for the humanitarian situation in the Idlib region of Syria. The text also recalls, at the diplomatic level, the importance for our country, through its seat on the Security Council, of continuing to make every effort to ensure that international justice can do its work in that region. Respect for multilateralism, human rights and international law must guide all our actions and positions. More than ever before, we must be part of any initiative to help the populations affected by these abuses, both in humanitarian and socio-economic terms, in Iraq, Syria and, of course, in the neighbouring countries that are hosting the most refugees fleeing barbarism. Here too, the European Union has a leading role to play. The aim is also to ensure the renewal of the United Nations cross-border assistance mechanism, thereby enabling United Nations humanitarian agencies and their implementing partners to deliver food, medicines, medical supplies and essential assistance to civilians in need. I was able to question the minister in committee on this point. I therefore hope that this text by my colleagues, which I thank very much, can be adopted by our House and, above all, that it will be followed in practice by our Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u10	I would like to thank the initiator, Mr De Vriendt, for a motion for a resolution on a matter which, as Mrs Van Hoof said earlier, perhaps few people in Europe know the order of magnitude and depth. It is a terrible humanitarian crisis, in a context where international action has been repeatedly called for in recent weeks to stop air strikes because human suffering and deprivation are so great that helping so many people becomes a necessity. In this sense, it is a bit of a wretched debate here in plenary today, especially in view of the ease with which air strikes are welcomed and the lack of ease with which this Parliament is prepared to make additional resources available in the event of such a massive humanitarian crisis. I certainly thank the initiators, and indeed the speed with which we have been able to do and improve it, as Mr De Roover said earlier. I would like to send the message to the government that we have the position to ensure that this unlikely humanitarian crisis becomes much better known and that it becomes very clear that Belgium, without any conditions, without fear, will move without resources, but really with additional resources, will alleviate the humanitarian crisis there. It is not only a major crisis, it is also far too long before an international initiative is launched. As Mr De Roover said, this is a resolution on which Parliament must ensure that it is used effectively. She gives a mandate to the government to do what is necessary. I will not repeat myself in two resolutions, but I am sorry that in such resolutions there are still people who find reason not to approve them. I would like to express my thanks to those colleagues who will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u11	Mr President, I am pleased that this resolution is being put to the vote in this House. This makes it possible to highlight the dramatic situation that still prevails in Idlib. This is a situation that has tended to be forgotten in recent weeks, in recent months, due to the fact that today media attention is focused mainly on the fight against the pandemic. Yet these people deserve our full attention as well as additional humanitarian aid than they are receiving today. So I'm glad. In addition, I have co-signed this text. I would like to return briefly to two or three points. First of all, I think that with humanitarian aid, what is always important is the protection of the people. For having been with these people for a long time in another life, I certify that the first need for a civilian population is to be protected. Unlike others, I make the link between the stabilization operations in the region we are conducting. We are trying to prevent other tragedies from occurring. And if there were only humanitarian aid, we would always be too late in relation to the suffering of civilians. I therefore establish this link between the need for protection and the need for humanitarian aid. In view of the letter we receive from the Turkish Embassy, I am pleased that it responds to our debates and expresses its point of view, but I cannot let go of the elements that hinder the Turkish Ambassador and, through him, his Government. First of all, he protested that Turkey did not support a group of armed jihadists in the Idlib region. Unfortunately, we all know – I insist – that Turkey has given its support and continues to give it to many jihadist groups in the region. I simply want to point out the very shocking murder and the hallucinating violence of Kurdish leader Hevrin Khalaf. Everyone remembers it, it was in October 2019. She was murdered by the Ahrar al-Sharqyia group, which was supported, armed and financed by Turkey. I therefore believe that the Ambassador should at least remember this example, among the many examples in connection with support for jihadist groups. Furthermore, we call on Turkey not to seek permanent occupation of Syrian territory and the Ambassador tells us that he occupies Syrian territory in full agreement with international legality. In this regard, we can only disapprove of this view, because there is no legitimacy, no legal basis for Turkey's current occupation of Syria. Therefore, we were right to ask Turkey to respect the integrity of Syria's borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u12	It was important to respond to this letter in such a way that, from that point of view, things were clear as well. While it is important to provide humanitarian assistance, it is also necessary to ensure that the permanent cycle of violence stops and that the financing of terrorist, jihadist groups and the illegal occupation of territories also cease in Syria. That is how we can better help and protect these populations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u13	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u14	Recital/Considerans L(n) • Annick Ponthier cs (1071/7) Demand/Request 1 • Annick Ponthier cs (1071/7) Demand 3 • Annick Ponthier cs (1071/7) Demand/Request 4 • 21 Wouter De Vriendt cs (1071/7) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u15	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u16	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mr Bertels, but for the part that was discussed and discussed in the Finance Committee this afternoon, that is Mr Vanbesien. Mr Vanbesien is not here. I therefore suggest that you start with your report, Mr Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u17	Mr President, my fellow rapporteur will be joining us shortly. I will give you a brief report on the work in committee on the draft law opening provisional appropriations for the months of July, August, September and October 2020. That draft law was discussed in the Committee on Finance and Budget on 10 June and this afternoon, but Mr Vanbesien will report on this. First, there was the introductory statement by the Minister for the Budget, who explained that the government was obliged to submit this draft law for approval in order to ensure the functioning of public services during the months of July to October 2020. It is a third instalment of provisional appropriations for this year, calculated in accordance with the relevant rules. The basis is the 2019 adjusted budget, the last approved expenditure budget. The new provisional appropriations have not yet taken account of an adjustment in the balance of social security contributions. This will be done in a fourth instalment of provisional appropriations on the basis of the updated estimates of the overall management of social security, taking into account, inter alia, the impact of the health crisis. The final clearance appropriations of the third tranche are EUR 193 million higher than the legal standard, which is 4/12ths of the 2018 adjusted budget. A detailed explanation of the reasons for the deviation in plus and in minus can be found in the pleading of the bill and in the report, as explained by the Minister. In view of the additional funds recently approved amounting to 1 billion, so that the interdepartmental commission for combating the coronavirus is now 2 billion, recently approved in the second instalment of provisional appropriations, the third tranche does not include an increase for urgent expenditure in the COVID-19 crisis. The existing interdepartmental commission of 2 billion should be sufficient for the time being. If not, action will be taken. Secondly, the Court of Auditors states that it does not have any comments in principle and considers that the conditions of the legislation in question have been complied with. All deviations are sufficiently justified. Thirdly, I will briefly go into the discussion and questions put by the members of the committee, because many amendments have been retabled and will be discussed in due course. All Members hope that a full budget can be discussed quickly. The system of provisional appropriations is intended to be temporary. Each also stresses the need for means to combat the corona crisis. Questions were asked and answered by the Minister concerning the use of the commission in this area. Most members of the committee also support the need to ensure continuity in the operation of public services and therefore recognise the need for provisional appropriations. Fourthly, the Minister then answers the questions, comments and amendments. I would like to explain some of them, which will not be returned to the general discussion immediately, I suspect, whether they were also not discussed in committee this afternoon. As has already been said, he provides information on the use of the interdepartmental commission, which has since been done in detail in committee. With regard to the NAVAP scheme, the end-of-life system for the operational staff of the integrated police, the Minister states that the discussion with the federal police is still ongoing on the figures, but that the federal police will be treated in the same way as the local police. If the figures are knocked off, the end-of-life system will be regulated by law. If funds are needed, they will be provided for, possibly through the commission. Following the information provided by the Minister, some amendments on NAVAP are withdrawn and other amendments are rejected. Replieks and additional questions and answers mainly concern the amendments, some of which have been retabled. I am not going to go into that further, because I do not want to do any duplication or take the floor from colleagues. The applicants will, if they so wish, have the opportunity to speak on this matter. So far, Mr President, the report of the committee meeting of 10 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u18	I shall suspend the sitting until Mr Vanbesien, rapporteur, is present. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u19	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. I see that Mr Vanbesien has arrived in the meantime. It is a matter of no importance and since you are the rapporteur for what took place this afternoon, I did not want to start without an oral report. You have the floor, Mr Vanbesien.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u20	Mr President, this afternoon the Committee on Finance and the Budget has been sitting together for about two and a half hours, but I shall make the report as concise as possible. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 15-25 forwarded to the committee. The committee has, however, found that these are two types of amendments: on the one hand, Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 7, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, As far as the first group is concerned, the authors insist that they can discuss it in plenary and vote on it. As all the amendments were sent to committee, it had to be voted on. The consensus we found there was that all the amendments would be voted on in committee and that they could possibly be retabled in plenary so that they could be discussed and voted on. Following that consensus, the N-VA said that it refers to the explanatory statement given two weeks ago in committee for amendments. 15 to 17. The Flemish Interest has done the same for Amendments Nos. 18 and 19 and the PVDA-PTB the same for Amendments Nos. 20, 21 and 22. All these amendments were rejected in committee this afternoon and will probably be retabled here or retabled so that they can be rejected in the near future. I come to the second group, the three new amendments. Amendment No 23 of the PVDA-PTB is about a €400 coronabonus for healthcare staff for a total amount of €52.8 million. That amendment was rejected by the committee. Amendment No 24 of the sp.a is about mental health care that is structurally underfunded, already before the lockdown. That's not new. According to the petitioner, the government had promised to work on this, but it never did. This amounts to EUR 200 million on an annual basis, which is now presented proportionally over the next four months. This amendment was accepted. The last amendment, No. 25, also of the sp.a, is about a solidarity premium similar to the consumer cheque approved by the super core. It is therefore EUR 300 for the care staff in the federal sectors such as hospitals and home nurses. The total amount involved is EUR 37.5 million. This amendment was also adopted. The draft law, including the amendments adopted, will shortly be put to the vote, together with the rejected amendments again tabled by N-VA, Flemish Interest and PVDA-PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u21	Mr President, I believe that there has been a mistake in the report. The psychological concern of the first line has been approved by a government in full power. So there has indeed been a reimbursement of that first-line psychological care, whereas Mr Vanbesien says that this has never been done. Secondly, that was a first time, a historic step for the reimbursement of psychological care in the first line, because despite all the socialist 'gesmos' with money, that never happened before.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u22	Mr President, I would like to repeat this. This is not a mistake that has slipped into the report, because that report reflects the conversation we have just had. This has therefore been discussed effectively, and if the Minister wishes to contest it, this can be done in the substantive discussion. However, the report is a correct reflection of what has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u23	Mr President, in this case there is a lack of knowledge in the committee and the reporter has included incorrect information in his report without knowing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u24	A report is a report, even if it may contain incorrect information. The substantive discussion will show what is right and anyone can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u25	Mr President, I would first like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Vanbesien and Mr Bertels. Mrs Depoorter will respond to Mrs Depoorter's comment shortly. I will give a general explanation of the position of the N-VA. Mr Minister, we shall see each other again in this plenum for the third instalment of provisional appropriations for 2020. Actually, it is the third and half disc, because we have already had an interim adjustment of EUR 1 billion. In the meantime, we've had provisional twelfths for 1.5 years. I am afraid to keep count of the number of times we have had to approve the provisional appropriations in recent years. I would like to remind you of the legal basis for provisional appropriations. They are crystal clear: 'In principle, expenditure of a new nature, which was not previously authorised by Parliament, is excluded from the provisional twelfths'. When we are in a situation of an international pandemic, our group believes that working with provisional twelfths is not optimal. I think we are not alone in that. You yourself mentioned this in committee. You have explicitly said that you are in favour of submitting a budget, but not everyone in the government obviously takes this view. At least there are some jammers here and there who did not really like the submission of a normal budget. Minister, for the corona crisis, we assumed growth of around 1.4 % and GDP of EUR 486,9 billion by 2020. According to the figures you have just given us, GDP is going to fall by as much as 10% this year and a V-shaped recovery in our economy is evidently going to be lost. You spoke of the Nike sign or the so-called swoosh. Just yesterday, the Federal Planning Office reported that the corona crisis has made public finances even more vulnerable than it has. For the federal government and social security, the situation is now particularly worrying. We are looking at a budget deficit of between 10% and 12% and a debt ratio of no less than 120 % by the end of 2020. We are talking about a general government deficit for joint governments between EUR 43 and 50 billion. Here and there we even hear the amount of EUR 60 billion. Those are huge amounts, which will have a huge impact on the functioning of the government and, of course, on our society. In this disc we do not even see the enormous budgetary impact of the corona crisis on the budget. We read sentences like: "This provisional settlement of equilibrium does not yet take account of the budgetary impact of the corona crisis." Or a little further: "this amount does not yet take into account the impact of the corona crisis." The current 'budget policy' is based on two pillars. Firstly, there is, of course, the protection of public health. And secondly, there is the absorption of the socio-economic effects. I would like to be very clear on that point. The N-VA Group, of course, fully supports both pillars. When we read that more than 100,000 jobs will be lost by 2020-2021, and that is a cautious estimate; some talk about numbers up to a quarter of a million, the situation is very serious. For us, the time has really come to draw up a real, full-fledged budget. Even if there is only one minority government, there is that possibility, so that we can finally tackle this unprecedented crisis with rigour and efficiency. When we read that total expenditure on combating the corona crisis can already be around EUR 14 billion, I can only stress that we must have a clear and clear view of public finances as soon as possible. This will enable us to get to work and, I repeat, to draw up a real and effective budget. The interdepartmental commission of EUR 2 billion, added to the previous instalment of provisional appropriations, is actually only intended for ad hoc solutions. This time, no new commission has even been added. I would like to stress once again that with the provisional twelfths, some parties can behave like irresponsible cowboys and the budget with additional expenditure, without any new revenue. Mr Verherstraeten has also made this very explicit in committee this afternoon, referring to the amendments tabled by the various other parties and to the Maribel Funds plus EUR 130 million in the current disc. It is very important for us to avoid such adventures. I reported that last time, but it just keeps coming. It is also important that we put in place a sound and focused fiscal policy in view of the current state of public finances. We ourselves have tabled a number of additional amendments, in order to remove some irresponsible additional expenditure in our view. The aim is therefore not to make additional expenditure, but to get expenditure out of it. My colleagues who are here in the House will explain this later in the debate. Finally, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that it is still important that the federal government should be able to pursue an effective and efficient policy. That is why, as many have said, we must have a normal budget as soon as possible, although this is not self-evident in the current difficult times. As I have said on several occasions, I would like to stress once again that people need security and action, now more than ever. It's up to you and us to give that to them. That was my statement, Minister. However, I can already tell you that we will approve the provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the operation on the basis of provisional twelfths in budgetary matters should be the exception for a State, for a Region, for a municipality, for any public entity. Yet it has become the norm for our federal state, and in our view it is a political and democratic problem, beyond being a budget. The last real budgetary debate on the basis of figures and analyses by the Court of Auditors took place in December 2018, more than two and a half years ago, before a party member of the Swedish majority of the time decided to slam the door and leave its partners Gros-Jean as before. Since then, our country has been without a majority government and therefore unable to hold such budgetary debates. The situation, which was then not simple since the deficit caused by the political choices of the Swedish majority was particularly large, has worsened further in recent months because of the pandemic and all its consequences in terms of economic slowdown, tax revenues and additional social needs and support for the economy. The pandemic has clearly not improved the situation. The budgetary situation is of particular concern. In the face of this situation for which we are in no way responsible, in the face of a budget base that we had heavily contested at the time – because it did not correspond to the choices that environmentalists want to make in social, environmental and democratic matters – our attitude has not changed. We have, quarter after quarter, supported the vote on the provisional twelfths because Ecolo and Groen are responsible political formations and we do not want to bring the consequences of this political crisis to the servants of the state, the civil servants, the customers and the suppliers of the state. A State, like any public entity, needs a budget to operate, even in the form of provisional twelfths. There have been some exceptions to this principle of provisional twelfths. In this way, together with other parties, we have voted for an amendment to allow a refinancing of the nursing sector, better known as the White Blouse Fund. This was a generous idea at the time - which is why we supported it - but a little vague as to its principles. We have therefore, in collaboration with colleagues from other parties, taken over the technical work to allow the allocation of these resources for the benefit of nurses. Similarly, we supported an increase in the interdepartmental provision - up to EUR 2 billion - to meet the needs of the coronavirus crisis. We have met several times with the Minister of Budget to obtain further details on the use of these funds, including the purchase of face masks for an amount of EUR 500 million. This essential purchase could have been much cheaper if, a few months earlier, it had not been decided to remove the strategic mask reserve and not replace it for reasons of economy. Furthermore, as Mr Dieter Vanbesien pointed out, our Committee on Finance has just voted on two amendments to the principle of provisional twelfths, on which I would like to return briefly. This is obviously not the ideal method. For us, priority must be given to consultation with the actors concerned. Although a dialogue is under way with representatives of workers and institutions in order to try to obtain structural means, we feel it necessary, at some point, to launch a first signal on the support of mental health care. Indeed, we have been very concerned about the physical consequences of the pandemic, not only on the victims of the coronavirus, but also on all the others, who have been affected by various conditions, who have been forced to postpone interventions or who have been unable to receive adequate care. The Committee on Health has devoted numerous hearings to this issue and drafted resolutions on the subject. However, we do not insist enough on the mental and psychological health consequences of this crisis. Prior to the crisis, as ecologists, we were concerned about sufficient funding for this type of psychological health care. You have to treat the head before you heal the body. It is obvious that after the crisis of the coronavirus, after confinement, after these months lived in a vacuum, after these job losses, after these debts that could not be lived by many families, we will need to strengthen our mental health care system very clearly. The first envelope - even if we are told that an agreement has almost been reached within the government - will provide adequate funding for mental health care. That would be a first step. The other envelope is intended to provide health care workers with a one-time premium. Those who believe that the award of this bonus will be sufficient and will be a step in keeping with the efforts made by health care staff are obviously wrong. This is an important gesture, but what healthcare workers expect is recognition and structural means to get a decent salary, to take a vacation for more than two or three weeks, to be able to take training and to have a management rate that is in line with the European average. It cannot, of course, be considered that these resources, which are otherwise defied, will be the balance of all accounts for the health care sector, nurses, including those not covered by the measure and the amendment, which are active in nursing homes which depend on other levels of power, the Regions. It seemed difficult for us, as environmentalists, not to support these two amendments, because we want to tell health care workers how important they are to us, how important they are to society as a whole. But it's a first step that won't be enough. We call for the creation of a real government with a real majority and with a real project to support the non-market sector in the health care sector, both for the financial year itself and for the refinancing of health care in particular. We are, as ecologists, available to do so, to work on it, even if we know very well, in the budgetary context that Mr.Clarinval and the government are going to bequeath to the next government, that things will not be obvious to achieve, that we will need fair management, an improved perception of tax revenues. I can only think of the question of the fight against tax fraud and the contribution of income from capital, but also of making savings where possible and where this has no impact on the service to the citizen or on those who work for the state and for the citizens. I wanted to return to this particular context, hoping - and this is my conclusion - as in my previous interventions on the provisional twelfths, that this will be my last intervention on the provisional twelfths. I hope that we will be able to carry out a serious budgetary exercise as soon as possible, with expenditure where necessary, with revenues that are essential to make solidarity work, to invest for tomorrow and to create a society that is both more resilient and more positive for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the provisional appropriations are intended to ensure the continuity of public service and that of our institutions. Basically, despite some form of political instability, despite the difficulties we face, linked to the health crisis, they enable our State, in all its components, to function. They enable our institutions to deploy, to provide all our citizens with the services to which they are entitled, to ensure their health, their safety, as well as all the legal functions, the functioning of our judicial institutions. They also allow the state to function in what it has important for the deployment of its public policies in the service of people. Of course, I'm thinking about health. But we have seen again this afternoon the importance of international relations through the texts that we submit to Parliament. It is not enough to adopt measures, but they must be implemented. If I take the floor today, however, I would like to remind you of two or three points of attention. We know, as the National Bank and the Federal Office of the Plan say, that 2020 will be a particularly difficult year, with €50 billion in announced deficits. We ask you, Mr Budget Minister, to ensure, together with your Finance colleague, that we have a dialogue with Europe to ensure that what we call the Corona public debt, which will obviously be linked to the crisis that we are going through and which has rapidly turned into an economic and social crisis, can be immunised from all considerations related to the Stability Pact. We would not understand that we are being imposed, above all, on austerity policies which are not appropriate, and which we have seen all the inefficiencies in recent years. Indeed, we will see what government will be in place and what strategy – because it needs one – it will deploy to combine the necessary economic and social revival with the importance of public finances, which can gradually recover, precisely, from which to ensure the vocation of our State and its institutions, which is to ensure the well-being of the population. It's a difficult balance. Undoubtedly, there will be confrontations and oppositions of an ideological nature between those who consider that it is by cutting off public spending that we will succeed and those who, on the contrary, believe that public spending and public services will contribute to the recovery. Indeed, how can we imagine that we can mobilize all our forces if we deprive ourselves of certain levers that are the responsibility of the public authorities? I would like to add that I have always found it aberrant of this way of bringing public expenditure back to GDP, pointing out the fact that a high level of public expenditure in relation to GDP was necessarily a handicap in the international competition to know who had the most efficient economy. Do I have to point out that, in public expenditure, investments are included, that they themselves contribute to the creation of wealth – in other words, GDP, which is one of the two terms of comparison, by the way – and that current expenditure, which also makes it possible to compensate a number of our fellow citizens for the work they do, also contributes to the support of domestic demand and that, therefore, they support the economy and the creation of added value? And then, should we also recall that the State stands, in various ways, alongside our companies, by the investments it makes in terms of logistics, transport, spatial planning, when these are not direct subsidies? In short, we need to get out of some ideological postures. I would like to pay tribute here to the members of the Finance Committee, who took part in an interesting debate, during which four economists with sometimes different and nuanced visions were heard. In this way, we have obtained an overview and modeling of what needs to be done in order to carry out an effective economic recovery policy. I am not even talking about the aspects of social justice that can eventually fuel divergences, of course, but at what time is a euro spent by the state economically effective? We have had this debate, which will continue. I really think it is to our honour as a parliamentary assembly to set aside time for us to debate this kind of thing. And it's no big deal if we have different opinions. At least we take the time to see how we will be able, with expertise and opinions, to compete, one another, some in the majority, others in opposition, to what is best for the country, to win the battle for employment, the battle for economic recovery and also, dare I say – and this is where I take on my socialist membership – the battle for more social justice and social cohesion in our country. As far as the provisional appropriations are concerned, yes, this afternoon we had a Finance Committee. I thank Mrs Kitir for being at the initiative of this request. In the absence of Mrs Reuter, who could not be present for reasons beyond her control, this meeting was excellently chaired by Mr Bertels, who left a great deal of room for debate, with respect for each other. We were able to ask ourselves whether it was not timely and essential, while the superkern decided to provide a cheque of 300 euros in the head of employees in the private sector, that this framework that we supported be extended to other socio-occupational categories. In fact, and I don't think it's a polemic, minister, on leaving the superkern, a member of your government said that if the municipalities and some public authorities also wanted to give this cheque to their agents, they could do it. Everyone knows the financial and budgetary situation of some local authorities, but above all, what this member forgot to recall is that these local authorities are not subject to corporate tax. However, the superkern, when adopting this measure, immediately said that this EUR 300 cheque could be tax deductible. If there are colleagues involved at local level here, I do not think they will contradict me if I say that a municipality is not subject to corporate tax. A municipality cannot deduct a EUR 300 cheque from corporate tax. However, it was the statement of a member of the government (which I will not name) that prompted some to wonder whether public servants in the broad sense could also be entitled to this EUR 300 cheque. That is where we have shown a sense of responsibility, saying that from the federal level it may not be possible to finance it for all those who are not private sector workers but who are full-fledged workers. Then came the proposal of our colleagues in the Sp.a., which we supported, which was intended to make recognize the work of the nursing staff, nurses, and nurses, in other words, of all those people whom we have, for months, regarded as our heroes of everyday life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u28	Mr Piedboeuf asked for the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u29	I would like to make a small correction, in the sense that it may be a government minister who made this statement, but the decision on the EUR 300 cheque was taken by the enlarged Kern. Personally, I welcomed this news, hoping that funding would be provided, but I realized that this would unfortunately not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u30	I confirm that this decision has indeed been taken by the enlarged Kern. This was my introduction, and we supported this proposal. Among these socio-professional categories, which we believe should be given priority, are health care workers. Therefore, no one would have understood that we cannot decide, by a democratic vote, to release an envelope in favour of these workers, who have been on the front line in the fight against coronavirus, in order to allow them to also benefit from this EUR 300 cheque. I thank my colleagues in the Sp.a for taking the initiative on this proposal, which we of course fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u31	Mr President, in December 2017, a budget was last approved here in Parliament. Now, almost three years later, none of the gathered political class is awake from that. With the classic Belgian plumbing work, we continue to work in this country on the basis of the budget approved in this Parliament in December 2017. The financial well in this country is now rising from EUR 12 billion before the corona crisis to EUR 50 billion today. Fifty billion euros of prosperity is also being wiped out. The politicians in this country are today handing out free train tickets, truth committees about a distant colonial past, the rabies of a cat from Peru and the purchase of millions of mouth masks from obscure Luxembourg post-bus companies. These are embarrassing scenes in the light of budgetary reality. However, Minister, the estimation and distribution of citizens' hard-earned taxpayers' money should be one of the most important tasks of a fully-fledged government. Of course, we don't have one in Belgium. On 3 March, Pierre Wunsch, the governor of the National Bank, came to the Committee on Finance and Budget and we then asked him, just before the corona crisis, whether the Belgian budget was actually able to go through a severe recession. The question was then blown away, almost laughed away. Of course, no one could predict the impact of the corona crisis, including us. It is unique to a recession that it is not predictable, think of the global impact of an attack such as on 11 September or the implosion of the banking system in the banking crisis, the explosion of interest on sovereign debt in the Euro crisis or a global pandemic as is the case today. These are all things which were not immediately predictable, but which caused an economic downturn at set times. Today we have to find out that Governor Wunsch is gonna pull the alarm. There are 200,000 unemployed, there is a loss of prosperity of 50 billion and, above all, public debt rises to what he calls unsustainable levels. On Tuesday, the Planning Bureau mentioned the budgetary situation as particularly worrying. So we are remembering untenable and extremely disturbing. The governor of the National Bank also went against PS President Paul Magnette's proposals to set up a EUR 37.5 billion relay plan. Wunsch rightly points out that Belgium is now paying the price because it has failed to produce budget buffers in recent years. Countries that have done so, such as Germany or the Netherlands, can do much more for their people today, but not Belgium. It reminds us of the passage of Minister of Finance De Croo in the Seventh Day of 29 March. Journaliste Lisbeth Imbo then essentially summarized the situation in her question, or was it her conclusion, to Minister De Croo. I repeat her words: 'A country like Belgium has started the corona crisis with a well. Is it not the time when Belgian politics must finally admit that we are not prepared at all, that we have missed our chance to get our budget in order and to be strong when a crisis is coming towards us that cannot be foreseen? Some kind of sense of responsibility we have not prepared our country properly?" So far, the very accurate analysis in the Seventh Day. Of course, Minister De Croo never answered this very clear question, because there is no sense of responsibility here about the wells of the Swedish Government and the wells that actually date from the Verhofstadt governments. On the contrary, the left-wing progressive parties in this House are ready with tens of billions of new expenditure, but I am telling you clearly: that kite will not go on after corona. Many sectors are fighting to survive today, many companies are threatening to go bankrupt, hundreds of thousands of workers and self-employed people are threatening to lose their jobs and many people are struggling to keep their jobs today. So, after corona, don't bring in billions for climate or millions for asylum seekers, because our people won't stand for that anymore. Every penny left in the state treasury must now go to our own people. Last week, however, we saw in Parliament how parties, from N-VA to Green, were trying to be the biggest European. Belgium would contribute up to EUR 17 billion to the Corona Restoration Fund, and all parties in the hemisphere would welcome it. Political laws in this Parliament are being completely overturned. You may recall that in his maiden speech, the new group leader of Open Vld defended the fund of EUR 750 billion. That fund consists of two thirds of non-refundable grants, i.e. grants or transfers towards southern European wells. In committee, the representatives of N-VA advocated deepening the internal market. Liberals are calling for hundreds of billions of grants and Flemish nationalists are calling for Flanders' economic and fiscal autonomy to continue to be given to the federal Europe, a Belgium of great importance. When the word Europe falls, the Flemish parties immediately fall down. When Merkel and Macron unfold their plans, the Flemish parties go flat on the belly. We are therefore not in favour of the measures contained in this emergency budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u32	Mr Vermeersch, Mr Loones wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u33	Mr Vermeersch, I will be brief. I kind of like facts. Some facts are verifiable. You claim that the Swedish Government has only left budgetary wells behind. Well, when we started with the Swedish Government, the budget deficit was 3% and when N-VA left the government that was 0.8 percent. You also say that we would make europhile promises and send billions to the European Union, while yesterday we voted against a text in committee. If there is one fact in relation to the European Union and its plans, then it is the amendments that Flemish Interest submitted to the committee yesterday. One of these amendments is that, in the long term, we are entitled to make the agreements of the Maastricht Treaty a reality. The Maastricht Treaty has just established that the budget must be in order, that the debt must be under control and that the banking system must work. For the Flemish Interest, these agreements can be removed. Another amendment of the Flemish Importance: if conditions are attached to European pennies that are given as support to a number of European countries, the Flemish interest in its amendment says that it is against conditionality. That is literally in writing in your amendment, Mr Vermeersch. You do not want to impose conditions: our taxpayers' money can go to Europe and be immediately flushed into other regions of southern Europe. It doesn't even matter what the money is spent on: whether it is spent on corona expenditure or not doesn't matter. No conditionality, so, Mr Vermeersch, it would be a pleasure for you to stick to the facts. I have another fact. At the time, the Federal Planning Office passed on your election programme: with your election programme, we would have achieved the most deep-rooted figures of all. If I remember correctly, it was a budget deficit, an additional debt of EUR 8 billion on top of it, and we were not even in times of corona at the time. So, Mr Vermeersch, it would be a good thing for you to stick to the facts and then you might look a little more credible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u34	Mr Loones, you have to admit that the government has started with a smaller deficit than what it ended up with, and you bear the crushing responsibility for that. After the elections, it has become clear that the Swedish Government's wells are now up to EUR 14 billion, and you are responsible for that. You are responsible for the fact that we were not prepared for the corona crisis in the budget today. That is also your party's responsibility. You like to talk about facts in the debate on Europe. You have tabled a resolution against the European Recovery Fund, but once Green came out with his own resolution, you have dropped yours neatly. You didn't even put them to the vote in committee, so there's nothing left to see about your muscle roll. Finally, I would also like to reply to your reference to Maastricht standards. From what the economists have said in the Finance Committee this week, one thing has become clear, in particular, that a number of very important re-launch measures can be taken through monetary policy. However, we have also given your party all the necessary levers to Europe, all the levers that we need to ensure the revival of our economy today. We are tied with our hands behind our backs today. We depend on the European Central Bank, which is, of course, autonomous. We need these monetary measures in order to give our economy the necessary revitalization, but we do not have them today. What your party does in the European Parliament is increasingly giving Flanders autonomy. If Flanders ever becomes independent, we will no longer have economic and fiscal levers in our hands if it depends on the N-VA. We clearly fit for that, our model is certainly different.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u35	I think Mr Loones does not agree with you, because he is asking for the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u36	It is not so much that I disagree with Mr Vermeersch, it is the facts that contradict Mr Vermeersch. At the start of the Swedish government there was a deficit of more than 3%. When we left the government, that was 0.8 %. Anyone can verify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u37	It has been shown that all this was not so correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u38	Anyone can verify that. Those numbers are just known. They were also confirmed by the National Bank and all authorities. What particularly bothers me, Mr Vermeersch, is that you are now suddenly retiring here from budgetary orthodoxy, from sintering policy, while everyone in Parliament can see who you are majority with. You are constantly approving proposals with PTB and PVDA. Constantly. Every day here in Parliament, you also approve additional expenditure. That could be a conscious choice. Socio-economically, your party is a left-wing party. I have no objection to that. You say yourself that you would be a socio-economic left-wing party. Come out for it! Be proud to seek alliances with the PTB, with the Communists. That is a deliberate policy choice, please do so. But please, keep your facts-free, high-pitched talk there on the chair for yourself. Take responsibility for the choices you make. Take responsibility for the fact that your programme would increase the deficit by EUR 8 billion more. Take responsibility for the fact that the Fleming will eventually be able to pay that invoice, Mr Vermeersch. Take responsibility for that. You might be out of business. We certainly do not stand for the fact that the invoice of your policy, together with that of the Communists, will be sent to Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u39	I'd like to answer that. Indeed, my party assesses amendments and what is being discussed here in Parliament, not on the author, but on the content. For example, we have brought a nuance to the provision on tax havens. We were then accused by the left that we are defenders of big business. We voted against the totally absurd corona tax and were called the rich man's party. On the other hand, you see us as fellow Communists. The difference is that the Flemish interest in Parliament is blowing a new wind and eventually assessing amendments on the content, no longer on the author, as you choose. But that's not our choice. Finally, I would also like to respond to the calculation of the electoral programme. You say that there was a well in the programme of the Flemish Interest, but you know very well that that well was due to the fact that the Planning Bureau refused to calculate the transfers to Wallonia. These amounts are EUR 12 billion a year, and your party, when it was in the government, never wanted to deal with or discuss them. There is also our huge net contribution to the European Union, which also did not want to calculate the Plan Office. We are also still waiting for the cost of migration to be calculated, which has still not been proposed in Parliament, even if the Minister of Finance promised it by summer. We are still waiting for the cost of migration to be calculated. If you implement our programme, we will have a lot left over from the budget, because we will give our own tax money back to our own people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u40	Mr President, I want to make a correct statement of facts. I have just looked up the analysis of the Planning Bureau of the election programme and I was mistaken, because the well is not EUR 8 billion but EUR 11 billion. Mr Vermeersch, I would not like to give the wrong figures; your figures are even redder than red.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u41	The EUR 11 billion well can be filled with transfers alone, as it amounts to EUR 12 billion. So you're actually admitting that our account is correct. If we add the cost of migration and the European Union, we even have a surplus. Ladies and gentlemen, that said, we cannot agree with the measures contained in the proposed emergency budget. For example, Minister De Block wants to allocate an additional EUR 55 million for the reception of asylum seekers today. The budget for this year has almost doubled and Flemish Interest is therefore tabling an amendment to delete the EUR 55 million. We want to remove the millions for asylum seekers and give the money to our own people. That must ultimately be the priority for us, because promise makes guilt. Remember, at the beginning of April, Minister of Finance Alexander De Croo promised a bonus of 1,450 euros to the caregivers, a so-called corona premium. This was one of the measures agreed by the remaining Wilmès government in the fight against the coronavirus and its impact. In the newspaper De Tijd, Minister of Finance De Croo talked about 10,000 applications of 1,450 euros, together accounting for 14.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u42	Mr Vermeersch, you mentioned Minister De Block and she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u43	Mr Vermeersch, you speak to me, I will explain it to you again. We are still working with the provisional appropriations on the basis of 2018. Of course, that so-called multiple question always comes back. You say that there must be a full budget. We are still working on the basis of the 2018 budget. Meanwhile, things were already allowed. They are, of course, settled and those things always come back. You say there's gonna be one every time, but if you don't get it, I can't explain it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u44	I understand very well, Madam Secretary. I do not have the right amount in mind, but I thought that EUR 200 million was included in the 2018 budget. This year, you've already asked for almost 200 million on top of it. I see Mr Francken nodding. He's the specialist to the point and he can confirm it. You've already needed almost 400 million this year. That is almost a doubling of the 2018 budget. Of course you come knocking on the door every time. Well, our party has been saying for years that asylum influx must stop so that we can give our taxpayers' money first and foremost to our own people. Forget about getting to the people after the corona crisis, especially if we are experiencing a severe economic crisis, with even more money for asylum. Unfortunately, that kite won't go on. I referred to the promise made by your fellow Minister De Croo, namely a premium of EUR 1,450, representing 10 000 applications and a total of EUR 14.5 million. The Flemish Interest gave the Minister's promise in a text and submitted it to the Committee. The corona premium promised by the Minister has been included in an amendment and tabled literally, one-on-one. In the committee, the PVDA then built the copier. Our amendment was literally transferred during the sitting and another EUR 10 million was added. For this meeting, sp.a re-enabled the copier and added another EUR 10 million. It is clear that after the initiative of the Vlaams Belang there is a bid going on, but the Flemish Interest has finally played its role as a whip party to the full. The ministers made a promise. The Flemish Interest has made that promise in a text in Parliament and the other parties have taken over the initiative of the Flemish Interest. It was finally approved and, of course, we welcome it. We have stirred up Parliament to give what is due to women and men in care. The Flemish Interest does not assess amendments to the petitioner and not whether the party belongs to the so-called left or right block. Left and right are, in my view, outdated political concepts from an outdated political culture. It will not have escaped anyone's notice that the Flemish Interest is blowing a new wind in the sometimes musty Parliament. We are assessing amendments on their content and not on the author. That's what we did here. We made the right choice. No one will deny today that the corona crisis has clearly demonstrated the importance of the healthcare sector. The Belgian budget was particularly ill before the corona crisis. The greenhouse's empty. Belgium was a risk patient before the corona crisis. That risk patient has been particularly severely killed by corona. Belgium had the highest mortality rates and excess mortality rates. So the Belgian patient had to do the money infusion and is artificially kept alive with Flemish tax money, so ventilated by the Flemish taxpayer. The strategy of the parties wishing to form the new government is clear: they want to forward the invoice of the corona crisis to the Flemings. Belgium must be permanently ventilated with Flemish taxpayers' money. Let us be clear, the Flemish interest will not support a tax increase on the Flemish hood. Today, the Flemings already pay the bill of mass migration, the pivotal European Union, Wallonia and the Belgian cumbersome political structure. I don't want any more corona bills in there. We will continue to call on the Flemish electorate to cut the money infusion to Wallonia together with us and to stop the ventilation of Belgium with Flemish tax money. Belgium is dead. Long live Flanders!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u45	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a draft on provisional twelfths. Normally, a debate on this should run smoothly. But, as I said, the normal thing in this House today is the abnormal, and the abnormal becomes normal. Colleagues, this is the seventh edition of the provisional twelfths. I'm not proud of that. Perhaps we are responsible for this, but all the other groups are also responsible. A budget with provisional twelfths is normally a technical budget. That we approve it for the seventh time, I repeat, I am not proud of it. It's not ideal, but it's necessary. The Prime Minister called again this afternoon to form a fully-fledged government. It has a surplus of right. If we want to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, we must take not only freedom, but also responsibility. Then we must also dare to step out of our hedgehogs. That too is political. These provisional twelfths, in a period starting in March 2020, have become abnormal provisional twelfths because, of course, due to the corona crisis, we had to spend a lot more, and we had to do more than rightly. I am thinking of medical materials, protection materials, bridging credits for the self-employed. This, of course, has meant more than justified additional expenditure on social security, where temporary unemployment has been a sipper. However, as in 2008-2009 with the banking crisis, temporary unemployment was a pillar for the launch of the relay policy, it is now so. Fortunately, we have that in our country. By the way, several countries have copied that from us. Of course, there are fewer tax revenues in such times. They melt like snow for the sun and there is a deficit, which will approximate the amount of EUR 50 billion and amount to more than 11% of gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen, how should we act as representatives of the people in Parliament? First of all, I would say that there may be no rules of the game in a democracy, and that perhaps in a democracy there may be some boxing under the belt. If, however, we expect the Belgians to respect the law that we are approving here, which is right, then we should first of all do so ourselves. The question is what can and can be done with a law of provisional appropriations and hence a budget law. That is the question we have imposed on ourselves in order to control ourselves. We are in a state of current affairs and with a government which has no competence and cannot take the measures it might have wanted and had to take. That is why we must avoid derailment. That is what the legislator has entered in a budget law, which has been in existence for years. That is what has just been said, and I have also referred to it in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote what we have imposed on ourselves: 'Preliminary appropriations are calculated on the basis of the corresponding appropriations in the last approved general budget'. So that's 2018. Now it comes to the question of 'Preliminary appropriations may not be used for expenditure of a new nature which has not previously been authorised by the legislator'. We must therefore not, in the provisional twelfths, register any new expenditure for which we have not given any new authorization in advance. That is what we want to do today. We are doing the opposite of what we expect from the Belgians themselves. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, We can talk about its content or its method. I abhor the method. I think it's irresponsible. I'm ashamed of ourselves. However, I support the content. However, this is not the time to do so. Of course, we have, rightly, already spent many billions in the light of corona. Of course, this is less relative. Those who are about to approve it, or who have just approved it in committee, have had powers, have authorized themselves. They have given confidence to this government, except for the N-VA Group. They've given powers of attorney, with the N-VA, to this government. They were able to sit with the supercore every Saturday and discuss it there. During the week, they were able to do the same with technicians, on Saturdays with ministers and party chairmen and the praiseless leader of the N-VA. It was then time to poach your sleeves for these things. That's where you kept your mouth shut. Now you come like a thief in the night, against the law, chasing this extra expenditure through Parliament. I would have supported the content of the amendments if we had sat together at the government negotiating table. In fact, I think that we may have to go even further in the future for mental health care. The OECD recommends that we do the same. Mrs Van Hoof has been talking about this for years. It has also tabled a resolution on this subject, which will shortly be before the Chamber for this part-session. Madam Minister, for the first time you have had the merit of providing psychological aid for the first line, worth EUR 22 million. Those aren't fortunes, but they're a first step. There are conditions attached to that. Those conditions, those thresholds are not obvious. We learn that this does not allow the resources to be used up in practice. At present, only EUR 500 000 out of these EUR 22 million is being used up, not anymore. Our well-meaning measure clearly needs to be improved. We should also improve it, but where is it supposed to happen? That's supposed to happen with conventions within the RIZIV. What are they doing? Are we going to give money first, and if there will be no convention within the RIZIV, what is the money? First, make arrangements within the RIZIV and, on the basis of these agreements, provide the necessary appropriations. That's good governance. But no, they don't. Colleagues, we spend too little on mental health care. We spend less than the OECD recommends. We need to spend more. In substance, I support the objective of this measure, but I do not approve of the method and the way in which it can be done better and requires more agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u46	Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Pas wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u47	Mr Verherstraeten, first of all, I find it very touching that you are defending the law and following the law here today. In your position as Secretary of State, where we discussed a state reform together, your interpretation of laws and constitutional articles was slightly broader. Secondly, you say that it should have happened at the heart of 10 and not in Parliament. I fundamentally disagree with you in that regard. If it has to be done somewhere, it is openly in a debate here in the Chamber and not in cores, super-cores without statute, in back rooms where closed doors are conceited and where certain parties are excluded. Thirdly, you are 'nuts' here in a few millions, and I have not heard you say a word about the fact that this government, supported by only 38 seats out of 150 in this House, is committed to billions in that European Recovery Fund. Of the EUR 750 billion that this country is committed to, this country is going to amount to EUR 17 billion, and I do not hear you say anything about this, but about a few millions that are coming to our own people. You'll have to explain to me why you're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u48	As far as exclusion is concerned, Mr Pas, you are right, and if it were up to me and our group, it would remain so for centuries and centuries. You claim that with the sixth state reform we would have violated a constitutional article. I dare you to tell me which one. You filed complaints against the government at the time. We are even in favour of the Human Rights Committee. That was just a farce. We have respected everything in this area. All the procedures you and others have initiated have been rejected. As far as the recovery fund is concerned, many call our country, with its small economy, yet another state in Germany. Economically, that is true for a large part. This country depends on the economic growth of strong economic engines. This country and other countries also benefit from Europe's recovery and the revival of the economy. Many Belgian entrepreneurs and later Belgian employees will benefit from this. This was the case in 2008 and 2009. That's how it's gonna be now. You say that in a few million 'nuts', to say it with your words, but 237 million does not seem to me to be a change. But once again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if that money is spent with the right method and in the right legal way, it can of course be discussed. The law must be voted on in the Chamber, just as the debate on that law is taking place here. We would not have avoided that debate. My argument is that those invited to the table could have spoken there, but they did not speak there. Colleagues, in any case, I would have preferred the budget to be discussed during the government negotiations, so that the way in which it would have been done in a more correct way. As far as the 37.5 million is concerned, I can ask who is opposed to a EUR 300 consumer cheque for people who worked in the storm, who we sent to war without weapons or protection. The question is, however, whether this is the right method or whether the recipients of it are asking parties. Have the proposers consulted the social organizations on this? The answer is no. However, I felt that the heralds of the social dialogue were among the green, red and communist families. But no, you don't have to. The trade unions, the representatives of those people, are not asking for one-shot but structural measures. For this reason, the federal and Flemish governments must jointly organise this social dialogue, as Mr Van Hoof has said for a long time. That would be a better way of doing things. In the context of this social dialogue, this premium can be a part, not left out for us, fine for us. I think, perhaps together with a majority in the Chamber, that they deserve a better statute. Let us work on this in a proper way. In the light of the current political context, I therefore regret the adoption of some of the amendments. In my view, that happened in a non-legal way. As a democrat, I accept the majority of Green, Red, Communists and Flemish Interest, a majority which we in the Chamber have had to undergo regularly in recent months. It is a new alliance, which I do regret. The draft law for the provisional twelfths will be adopted because we want people to receive their benefits and because the officials who give the best of themselves deserve their wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the seventh time we have had this debate on the provisional twelfths. I do not want to debate the budget here. That's not the issue right now. It is true that an antisocial budget was approved a year and a half ago and that the provisional twelfths continued that antisocial character week after week and month after month. That's the problem. So the question is: can we expect from the people that because there is no government, it is waiting passively? There is no government, so there is no budget. You cannot expect this from the people. There is a debate, there is a participatory democracy, there is pressure; there is a class struggle, it is happening before our eyes. Who are the first victims of VOCID? These are manual workers. Studies show that. Who are those who were at the front, who were the most infected with the virus? Those are the workers. That class struggle, that class integrity, we saw it right here in front of us. The debate is about who will pay for the crisis. That's really exciting! For five years, ministers of the budget have told us: "Listen, there is a rule that we cannot change, it is austerity." Frankly, there was gravity (9.81 m per second squared) and then European austerity! Two objective data that could not be debated! If we dared to get a little bit out of the frame, it was a scandal! In three months, all these liberal dogmas fall like a vulgar castle of cards. The debate now is whether the deficit will be thirty, forty or fifty billion. We're not about ten billion. I've never seen Minister Clarinval swing the numbers like that. We were debating whether it took a few million to the right or left for five years and here, hop, thirty, forty, fifty billion. This is proof that austerity is a purely political, dogmatic, ideological choice and not at all a data that would have come to us from where and from which we could not come out. The debate today is where this money is going to go, and above all who is going to pay. It is said: 'PVDA - expenditure, expenditure, expenditure'. We're the only party here that's gonna come up with income. I have heard in the debates that the Liberal Ministers are being asked how they are going to fill the pit of EUR 30, 40 or 50 billion. The answer is that people are counting on payback effects. The return effect! If we invest one euro, we have two in return! The Liberals have only that in their mouth: for every euro invested, we have two euros! That is exactly the opposite of what was said for five years. For five years, we were told that the more we shake, the better the economy will be. There is a systemic problem! We come with solutions. The "corona" tax we are proposing is revenue. There is a problem, in Belgium, we have grown in 15 years from one to twenty-nine billionaires in euros. The rich have become richer in this crisis. Do you think it was the crisis for everyone? Not at all! Why would a "corona" tax not be possible? Even Paul De Grauwe is in favour and he's a liberal ex-senator, not a PVDA. He also thinks that that would be the right thing to do. If you have any other proposals to bring in money, come with them. At least we come up with a concrete proposal: a coronatak of 5% above EUR 3 million will raise EUR 15 billion. This is a concrete measure that can be debated; that is responsible; we do not just come up with big slogans about payback effects and tutti quantumi. Mr President, I notice that there is a question from the N-VA, which I would like to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u50	I'd like to give you some debate, but you're referring to Professor Paul De Grauwe. You come up with revenue proposals, but we all know what revenue they are: taxes, taxes, taxes, taxes, taxes. You will tax everything and you will always answer the question of who you will tax. What, however, are you saying in the Chair: I would very much like to refer to Professor Paul De Grauwe's proposal. In the meantime, we have seen what Professor De Grauwe's proposal means, because last week it was in Knack. If a family, a couple, together earns 4,500 euros net, he wants to tax them extra. According to Professor De Grauwe, these are the rich. That is what you are defending: any couple who together earns more than EUR 4,500 wants to tax you more. Tags, taxes, taxes. For you, too, the facts count. When you say that the rich must pay for the crisis, at least be honest about what you are proposing: it is not the rich who will pay for the crisis, it is the middle class who will pay for the crisis with your proposal. You are also making a whole speech about how antisocial the Swedish Government was and how antisocial the budget was. You are quite right to say that the provisional appropriations are still based on the Swedish Government's budget. That's the only good thing about it, by the way, but you think they're hugely antisocial. Big words, tough talk, patati and patata, but what are you doing in Parliament? Are you voting against? No, you wouldn't dare. You don't have the guts to do that. If you think the budget on the table is so antisocial, vote against it and take responsibility for it, and then tell the people that if their pensions cannot be paid and care premiums cannot be paid, that is because you think that the budget is so antisocial that it deserves your vote against it. What are the real facts, dear colleague? After all, it is repeatedly claimed in Parliament that health care expenditure has fallen, and the Minister is sitting here, but the facts have their rights there too: absolute health care expenditure has increased under the Swedish Government. More than EUR 3 billion has been added, but that too may be one of the facts you would rather deny. What you'd rather hear is tax, tax, tax and pay, pay, pay, but it's the middle class that will get the bill for that, and we also know which middle class: the Flemish middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u51	I am now truly convinced that you have never read our proposal. I'm really sorry about that. I read the programme of the N-VA and I follow the political debates among other things. I want to know why you lost the election. But you don't seem to be reading our program. We do not come up with any income tax at all. Paul De Grauwe talks about income taxes and capital taxes. PVDA talks exclusively about power taxation. Those are not capital gains taxes or wages taxes, but that is a property tax. Come on, you've studied a little tax, you can understand that. That's a tax on the ability itself. The proposal that François Hollande had to withdraw in France concerned an income tax. I'm not proposing an income tax. I propose a property tax. Stock and flow! It's still the ABC when you're in the first year of economy. Explain it to him! Make an effort! You can't agree. Anyway, stock isn't the same as flow. We propose this measure, just so as not to affect the middle class. In our definition of the corona tax, we are talking about all fortunes of more than 1 million euros. That's 2.3 percent of the population. This is not how we meet the middle class. That's the definition of our corona tax. There can be no exception to that. It's about patrimonium, and that was analyzed, centile per centile. One can be for or against that. One can be for the richest, as is often the case with the N-VA. If you want to drive for those 2 % richest, you can, but we don't. The remaining 98 % is by definition not affected by our corona tax. That's the definition of our tax. You just didn't understand. That's the ABC of taxation. That's what they learn in the first year of the Bachelor's degree in Economics. That is my first point. Secondly, who hit the middle class? Who pays the VAT of 21% on gas and electricity? Who approved that? The N-VA. Who's gonna pay for that? The Fleming. Who approved the increase in excise duties? The Swedish coalition. Just pay. Who's gonna pay all these taxes? The question here is certainly where this money should come from. Thirdly, why are we voting in favour of provisional appropriations? There was an important budgetary moment here where the people's voice was heard in the amendment that was tabled, not a EUR 30 or 40 million, but a EUR 400 million. Then the N-VA said that they should not, that they sided with the populists, but now it is that after the corona crisis they do not dare so much. Can an opposition party do anything? Yes, she was able to get a EUR 400 million white-collar fund approved. You didn't do that for the pleasure of the PVDA. I'm sure of it. You have done so because you have all felt the pressure of white rage in your networks: mails, actions, lobbying, demonstrations. You've all felt that popular pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u52	Mrs. Depoorter wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u53	My party was mentioned, Chairman. Mr Hedebouw, you have the same good memory as your colleague last week. You mention the 400 million for the white blouses and you forget to mention that you initially brought in the cooperation with Flemish Interest to get that 400 million in the budget. Indeed, after that, the N-VA worked very constructively, the colleague of the PS chaired the meeting and we came to the conclusion that we have a structural measure that could be effectively spread throughout the healthcare sector. We've put payback effects into that. We've gone for more hands on the bed. It has been proven that this will generate resources. That was a very different story from the EUR 400 million you initially mentioned on the floor. Just aside from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u54	I would like to invite everyone to reread the minutes of the plenary sitting in which this fund was voted. What did Flemish Interest first refer to as voice? Abstention. The left had said they were in favour. I agree. Collaboration's over. Discussion's over. But read the Minutes of the plenary sitting: abstention. Why? Because mathematically, those voices weren't necessary. I invite everyone to reread the minutes of this famous plenary session. Then we can confirm what was said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u55	This is the same story that we heard last week from your colleague, Mrs Merckx. If you read the report in full, you know very well that Mr Vermeersch was asked in the middle of his speech what would be our voting behaviour on the PVDA amendment, when he had not even read the amendment at that time. It is understandable that he should say, for the sake of safety, that we shall abstain. We only received the amendments afterwards. You know that very well. That's what that report says. The only thing that matters, Mr Hedebouw, is voting behaviour. If we had not supported it then, we would have voted against it, it would never have been there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u56	You confirm that there has been abstinence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u57	No, I speak completely against what you say. I'm not confirming anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u58	It is said here that there has been no coordination. They even said during the debate that they would abstain, unlike the far left. So there has been effective no coordination. That is also shown in the Minutes. You said you would abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u59	Mr Hedebouw, you were interrupted again. I have the impression that you would like to be interrupted, but I would like you to take up the thread of your speech again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u60	Mr President, I must also contradict that. Mr Hedebouw, if you look at the video footage from that afternoon, you will see that I sat next to you in plenary. Mr Goblet was even very angry that I sat next to you, because I came to ask for the right figures. I saw EUR 67 million and I wanted that confirmed. We discussed the fact that it was EUR 400 million on an annual basis in this plenary session. You can see that on the video footage. I invite everyone to check that out. We wanted to know what we voted and we finally supported it. It is a fact that if we had voted against there would never have been a healthcare budget. At that time, therefore, we have taken a wise decision, which we stand by today. You must be correct, we gave the support at that time, and you did so thanks to our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u61	I'm not going to go on, but it's clear that he's abstaining. With regard to the concrete debate before us today on the provisional twelfths, we will support the sp.a. initiative. I think it's important. It's kind of the "promised thing, something due" operation. As the government has committed itself, I think it makes sense to give that. But I want to warn this whole Parliament about the current negotiations in this sector, to those who believe that we are going to get away with small amendments of EUR 1.25 million. The area is angry. The sector requires a real salary increase. A real salary increase is not a small annual bonus. It's an increase in wages. The sector will not wait for a government to form, it will demand that in the framework of this provisional government, money be released. Madam Minister, in order to be able to give the 200, 300, 400 gross euros that are claimed by many people in the sector, it will take 800 million euros. We are not going to wait for a next government to get that balance of power and salary increase. It was 134,000 people who led the fight on the front. These heroes we applauded at 8:00 p.m., are we going to give them these salary increases? Do you find it normal to clean a hospital for €1,420 a month? I'm asking you the question seriously. The wage freezes voted by all right-wing parties must be stopped. Today, it is time to revalue all these wages. Minister, I call on you to release the funds, because you know very well that if it stays at the hospital level, there will not be enough money. If we need to refinance a sector today, it is the hospital sector - 6-7 billion euros - to manage to do "kif kif" and thus avoid bankruptcy. But the 800 million euros will have to be found to allow these salary increases. I'm talking to you here in the short term, minister. You cannot claim that they were the heroes of everyday life and, at the same time, not to raise their wages. That's not right! I swear to you, the anger in the area is huge. In Flanders, in Brussels and in Wallonia. When the Prime Minister was turned away, that was not symbolic action, that was fundamental anger. Our amendment dealt with EUR 400 million. Now that amount needs to be doubled urgently. EUR 800 million must be made available for the wages of everyone in the sector. That is what is urgent, ladies and gentlemen. Last item and last amendment. After the general discussion, I shall leave the floor to Comrade Gaby Colebunders. That is the question of military expenditure. An amendment was proposed. I always hear on the benches of the government that we don't have money, that we don't know how to spend. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that such a decision was taken by this government, that of spending EUR 4 billion on the purchase of F-35 bombers? That's $15 billion if we count the extra maintenance. The government bought 34 F-35, paid planes to wage war. Let me remind you that one F-16 costs 8,000 euros per hour of flight. Do you know how much the flying time of an F-35 is? 24,000 euros! It costs 24,000 euros per hour to fly such a machine. EUR 15 billion will be distributed here to buy the F-35 bombers. Colleagues, I am asking you here to make decisions and break that contract. There are 35 to 40 billion euros in debt coming to us. Dare to show that political courage. If I have to choose between re-evaluating the wages of the whole white and fury sector and spending EUR 15 billion on F-35s, then my left-wing heart has made the choice. I ask you to stop with those F-35s, many of which, by the way, show that they are still not technically to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, today we propose a concrete, clear and clear amendment to break this decision of the F-35 contract, in cases of force majeure. We can't afford to spend $15 billion on warplanes, while we're going to be in front of an incredible budget hole. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will support our amendment. I sincerely believe that the PTB brings budgetary solutions and not "return effect" trivialities to all sauces. Because you know very well that these are the workers you're going to charge. And I disagree!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u62	Mr President, even though I have been a Member of Parliament for one year and have been standing here for the first provisional twelfths, twelve months ago, I am surprised. What misappreciates the principles of responsible budgetary policy and sound parliamentary work are we doing here? Everything has become urgent. I don't like being asked for advice. All coalitions, including the most unhealthy alliances, are possible. Never seen, my colleague just said, using extreme left and extreme right when it is convenient. It is a combination of all variations of traditional-left, not state-supporting, but state-pending links, green-left, communist-left, and since the words nationalist and socialist should not be used, chameleon-lefts of the Flemish Interest. At two hours, an amendment was suddenly brought up to spend an additional EUR 100 million this year in the context of what is today a virtual budget, a budget of provisional twelfths, a budget which does not require budgetary control, where no policy can be pursued, where we are trying to glue something together, and rightly so. There are many measures that need to be assessed in the right place and at the right time. Ten thousand people have worked very hard in the healthcare sector, and today they want to give a premium to 125 000 people. The government will pay for it. We will provide EUR 200 million each year for free psychological assistance. I do not know whether this applies to Parliament. Colleagues, has all budgetary common sense evaporated or disappeared in this corona crisis? Or is this just about a PS maneuver to show her pouvoir the nuisance, because she is aware that she is not one hundred percent incontournable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u63	Mr President, I hear the expression "power of nuisance of the PS". Mr Leysen, we are either having a serious debate, a budgetary debate. You then explain why the amendments that we have supported are not justified in substance, in form, on what they represent in terms of rebalancing between the decisions that have been taken in superkern, and which we have supported with regard to the private sector and, on the other hand, other workers who are not in the private sector but, for example, in the public sector. And not just any one! Those whom we have celebrated and thanked many times here. No, you, from this rostrum, allow yourself to say "power of nuisance of the PS", because we Socialists want to send a positive signal, certainly insufficient, but a positive signal to the nurses and you talk to me about nuisance? Through us, it is these workers that you insult, those who were on the front line in hospitals to treat people, to heal them, to prevent them from dying, and you talk to me about nuisance. Mr. Leysen, you're now on Giscard d'Estaing. I would remind you, however, that he did well in his second presidential election. If you want to follow the same path, free to you! So I was saying that we are either having a serious debate and then at that point you are avoiding insults, because "diversion" is an insult, or we are going into something else, into controversy, but I think our Parliament is better. You may disagree for some reasons, but when political parties take on their responsibilities and tell you that it is both possible to improve the status of nurses, nursing staff in nursing homes, for example, and other categories of workers who deserve our respect, I tell you clearly, Mr Leysen, you are not up to the debate and I am not going to accept that through us you are insulting these workers. Let's be clear, Mr. Leysen!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u64	I'm not a member of the supercore. I'm not there. I don't know what's being discussed there. However, I am surprised, if I may put it this way, that you are trying to 'chassen' this flawed legislative work. We shall see what results this leads to. We have seen it with the blouses - after nine months, we are beginning to try to implement this great slogan, which has been put into an amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u65	Mr President, Mr Leysen, those funds for 2019 for the Health Care Staff Fund have had an effect thanks to many parliamentarians, not you. For the funds for 2020, there was an impact a few weeks ago, perhaps you agreed with them. These resources are already being used on the ground. Do not miss the power of those means. And please don't disrespect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u66	I certainly do not deny it, since I have been involved in the implementation of it, together with Mr De Caluwe. My great concern is that this Parliament will be the parliament of the great redistribution, not the redistribution between rich and poor, but that between today and tomorrow, that everything will be spent now and nothing will be left for tomorrow. The greenhouse is already empty. Everyone carries a backpack of 40,000 euros in debt. We'll add 4,000 to that this year. I can't get rid of the impression that people believe that the money is gonna come swirling out of heaven. If you spend money that you don't have, someone will have to pay the bill someday. Otherwise, we will go directly to hyperinflation, as Paul De Grauwe confirmed. A hundred years ago, such hyperinflation was known in Germany to shame, with bank notes of 200 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u67	Mr Leysen, the new narrative, the new riedel of Open Vld, is that we should be careful with taxpayers' money. We need to look closely at what we're spending it on, and there must be no Santa Claus politics. You say that there is a need for sound parliamentary work, and you do so with some pride, high on the pulpit. However, let us take a look at the facts of these provisional twelfths and the previous version that we approved this year. Open Vld Minister De Block received an additional EUR 150 million on top of the normal costs of asylum reception in 2019 and this year it is even EUR 180 million extra. Then you come to the pulpit and say that we have to pay some attention to our tax dollars, while the cost of an Open Vld Minister has increased by more than 50%. That's a first fact. A second fact is that different groups in this House take the budget extremely seriously. We are having a debate on this and we are doing what is expected of Members of this House, namely to bring forward amendments. We are therefore putting forward very concrete proposals to reform the budget, in order to save, for example. The N-VA has tabled several amendments to ensure that savings are made, for example on the ever-expanding asylum shelter. There we can safely get rid of a few millions that could be invested more efficiently elsewhere. Like many other groups, we come up with amendments but from your group and you are not seeing anything. You are a Member of Parliament and you say that you stand for budgetary orthodoxy, sound parliamentary work, savings and efficient use of public funds. Then please do your job and come forward with concrete legislative proposals and amendments to achieve all that. I have just looked at your proposals and, above all, I saw a proposal to distribute some extra subsidies in the arts sector. I didn't leave it, so we gave it to them. You can imagine what you want, but please do not accuse some groups of lightly dealing with tax dollars. A third fact. Yesterday we had a very interesting discussion on the European resolution. That debate has been going on for weeks and the amendments had been tabled more than a week ago. This is a particularly important project, with EUR 750 billion in expenditure. Of course, that's a huge amount of money. What was your opinion on the Finance Committee? You didn't have an opinion. Of those EUR 750 billion, only EUR 5.5 billion will return to this country. This means that every Belgian will put about 1,500 euros extra into the European pot and only get 500 back. An additional grant of more than 1,000 euros per Belgian who will leave this country. All the groups have had the debate on this. We've asked your opinion on that. What was your opinion? You had no opinion! That European budget, third fact in that piece, may cost us EUR 17 to 19 billion extra. Belgian tax dollars collected here will be passed on to the European Union, while we already have a budget deficit of more than EUR 50 billion. Once again, we have had a debate on this and asked for your opinion on it. What was your opinion? You had no opinion! One more. New European taxes. This was also the subject of the debate. The political groups have taken their positions. We've asked for your opinion. Same thing again: no opinion. What was the worst of it? Your answer was, and everyone can read the report: you had not read the texts. You had not even read the amendments. You had simply not read the basic text of the resolution. Once again, all of you, not to me, fill in your duties as a Member of Parliament as you wish to do, but a little modesty would be a credit to you. If you do not even bother to read texts that cover up to EUR 19 billion of Belgian taxpayers' money, then perhaps I would speak with a little more modesty in your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u68	Mr President, Mr Loones, first of all, the policy is run by a government. For the fact that we have not had an approved budget since 2017, I have to look at you and your group first. Secondly, I am an advocate of less but better laws, rules and institutions. So you will not get any new ideas and proposals from me. I try and hope that, when my mandate is finished, I have abolished a lot of laws and rules and amended them if necessary. Let me do that. In legislative work, haste and urgency are rarely good. In all modesty, I sometimes make choices in which I put energy. For me, full resolutions are declarations by a fixed or accidental majority to a government that is still looking for a majority. However, those are choices I make. We don't make enough choices. We live in the short term. Perhaps, in the long term, dare to think is not the practice of politics. I'll tell you things you don't like to hear. I would rather have many more parliamentary meetings without streaming. If there is no streaming, I can see that the content of the debates is stronger. I have a special appreciation for a number of working meetings that we had, which I also admitted. What was even more important than the resolution this week was what the National Bank of Belgium stated. There will be €47 billion less revenue by 2020, of which there will be €5 billion net less revenue for citizens. They have fewer revenues, which are, however, largely compensated. There will be 8 billion less income for businesses. A sum of EUR 34 billion, i.e. three quarters of the missing revenue, has been transferred to the government. That can't last. This amount of EUR 5 billion net amounts to 2% of disposable income. If we still hand out a lot of gifts, it might be zero. Eight billion euros less income for businesses means 10% of turnover. The government will have 17% less revenue by 2020. Its deficit will be around 20% more. Forgive me if I confine myself to those basic elements and express my surprise at them. We live here somewhat in a virtual world, as if we, as Members of Parliament, could tackle a crisis without costing anyone anything. In reality, some will suffer more from a crisis than others, and we as Members of Parliament will be able to compensate for things, but everyone will have to pay. I think that we should have the courage to face that truth. That is why I am unhappy about the current working methods. I think we can do much better. The same applies to all parties, including mine. There is, of course, the history of our party; someone even noticed that the liberals had been in power for sixty years. Of course, that is not true; the fact is that we bear responsibility. But either we always look at the past and we do to goosebumps, of course we can also play for sintering classrooms - or.... and this is my proposal.... we look to the future, to the next year and to the next generations. We will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u69	Mr Leysen, your words often sound like music to me. When you call on Alice Nahon to look "deep in his own deer," that remark is justified. Let's watch out with the blackbirds. You have just accused the left of being a socialist, but you cannot blame them for that, as they can be expected to do. They're socialists. Imagine if they were not, how boring would it be in Parliament. Nor do I have any understanding for your statement of having much to do with resolutions. I am a member of the Committee on External Relations, where resolutions are being pumped through the machine at a rapid rate. So I can fully follow your opinion. That is why I propose that we not talk about resolutions, that we do not talk about socialists, or that we be accused of being a socialist. I would ask you to support one of the measures proposed at the meeting of the super-core, of which I was a member. If you are consistent with your words, you will certainly be our ally. It's the plan to give everyone ten train rides; it turned out to be twelve later. That plan, as was the agreement, would cost nothing, but afterwards nothing turns out to be at least EUR 110 million. Now, let us agree, without resolutions, that you are our ally in the firing off of that plan. That is concrete, that is not a resolution. The first 110 million are in. At the last meeting of the supercore may have taken place, but I no longer had the honour to be invited for obvious reasons, because I had messed up the party you were not present, but your party was represented. That's why I'm addressing you. Well, let us agree that we also measure that party at the bar you have set for us here and let us ask, for example, why suddenly and without any logic, another 100 million cheque is being issued through the OCMWs, adding another 10% to compensate for the costs incurred by the OCMWs for the distribution of the 100 million. I shall confine myself to those two concrete measures. We will not cast that into a resolution, Mr Leysen. We will take parliamentary initiatives to ensure that these sintering-class choices are not carried out and I am counting on you to be our concrete ally, against the socialists, because I am not counting on them to help us. I'll count on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u70	Mr President, I would, of course, like to address Mr Leysen, but I do not think he was present at that meeting of the super-core unless I was mistaken. I have seen the composition of the supercore and there were a lot of superhumans in it and also the esteemed colleague De Roover. He also told me in smells and colors that it was an interesting meeting. I also noticed that Mr De Roover took part in all these meetings and that he ran away at the last meeting. The last one was too much for him. He didn't say much, but apparently there was an incident with PS. At the penultimate meeting, this famous meeting, we talked about the catering cheque and the rail passes. I have been told, but I may be mistaken, that these measures have been adopted by all parties, including Mr De Roover's party, the N-VA. Those rail passes were approved in principle, with long teeth. I'll admit it was with long teeth with us, too. You were there. One thing I greatly appreciate in you, Mr De Roover, is that a word is a word for you. If you give your word, you keep it. As far as the OMCWs are concerned, I have to admit that Mr De Roover said no to the 100 million, that that was about, that that went too far. Mr De Roover, if you are consistent with that decision, I suggest that the most important OMCW in the country, in particular the OMCW of Antwerp, firmly refuse that money. If you do so, if you tell your chairman and the mayor of the city of Antwerp that you do not need that money from the OCMW, then you are consistent. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u71	I think the personal fact is very appropriate, Mr Van Quickenborne. I think you said at some point: that's what's going on. That's me. That's a very personal fact. I have two points. First of all, your claim that the problem will be solved when all N-VA municipalities or one of the gift cheques will be waived, of course, do not take it seriously yourself. That's an attempt to get you out. I don't think she's very convincing. Let's do that for everyone all of a sudden. You are our ally. Let's not just do it for Antwerp. Let's do that for everyone. Secondly, I was indeed present. That I haven't said much, you've heard of it. I didn't just talk at first. I spoke three times during the meeting. There was also a kind of political law rule: if everyone is dissatisfied, we agree. To everyone's bewilderment, that party was ruined because I said I didn't agree with the measure. I even had to be quick, because people were already asking around. I didn't mean for anyone not to agree. If you say a word is a word, you speak to my heart. If you say that you will take a measure that costs nothing, then you must do so. That's the word given. That is also the word given by your chairman. There was no budget attached to that at any time. Mr. Van Quickenborne, I know a good restaurant. I suggest we eat there tomorrow. I think I can get it for 10 euros: appetizer, main course, dessert and all drinks included, with a nice pousse café. Will you come with me? You come along and tomorrow afternoon I will call you that the party is taking place, but that it costs 120 euros per person. You said you were coming to dinner, which I said would cost 10 euros. If, after you have heard that it will cost 120 euros, you say you will not go along, then I complain that you will break your word. That's what you're blaming us for. You said it wouldn't cost anything. Your own chairman has agreed to these conditions. EUR 110 million is just too far from 0 to fall under category 0. I get it, it happened really fast, and a person sees no reason not to let people take the train for free. Promoting public transport is all very good, but come back to that stupidity and show solidarity with us in firing it. Now I would like to discuss an envelope for care staff, because there is something to be said for that. They have made efforts. But everyone on 12 train rides treats, because the word corona is stuck on it, honestly, I don't know which current finds an argument for that. I don't think the Liberals do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u72	Mr President, what really worries me in this non-discussion is that the superhumans, as Mr Van Quickenborne calls them, apparently all believed in the supercore at that time that train tickets and train journeys were free. That anyone who came up with the idea, Mrs Almaci, has such an economic image, does not surprise me, but it worries me that in the super core, apparently everyone was away that it was a free affair. Mr Leysen, you say that Parliament's work is not taken seriously, that the importance of a budget is being taken seriously and that it is being derailed. I think you're very badly placed to give lessons about that. We have had purple and it is only under purple that the budgets have begun to derail completely. Purple meant EUR 27 billion in the sink without a corona crisis, on the contrary, in full-scale economics. So a little more modesty would be good for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u73	I didn't mean to be impolite, but I think we all feel that it doesn't work that way anymore and that we need to think carefully about our way of working. It can and must be different. I think we are all aware that if a lot of money is distributed, part of it ends up where it shouldn't end up and part of it ends up where it doesn't need to. The sooner we decide, the bigger that share is. I do not dare to stick up percentages there today. Mr Van Quickenborne's proposal is a good one in this respect: those who do not need it have the courage... If people who were technically unemployed for a day get a check to pay their energy bill and they still live with their parents, it is normal for them to return it. That should be done better, because now we all think that we are allowed to play Sinterklaas. It has been a bit 'punished, punished, punished' between the different levels of jurisdiction. I fully agree that we must be particularly vigilant about what is happening at European level. We have too many institutions, we have too many people who want to play sintering class. You will find an ally in me and others for a long-term and responsible policy. Despite my bad feeling about the procedure we are following, our group will approve the provisional twelfths. I hope to be able to work well with all of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u74	Mr Loones, there are three other members of your group who are not even present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u75	Mr President, my group leader has asked a very clear question to which we have not received an answer from the speaker, although we have heard in the last two sentences that he is opposed to sinterklaa policy and to sound budgetary policy. Mr Leysen, will you stop us from handing out 12 free train tickets?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u76	Mr President, I shall first let the other colleague speak, and then I shall reply. I don't want to...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u77	Mr President, Mr Leysen may answer, but I do not want to dishonor him, and if he gives me priority, I will take it. That's not a problem, I'm flexible and pragmatic. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law opening provisional appropriations for the next four months. I shall first deal with four main principles and then with the amendments. It is now the seventh time that we have to approve provisional twelfths here. We have always assumed our responsibilities and we will do so again. Mr Verherstraeten, even though the basis of those provisional twelfths is regulatory, that budget for 2018 has not carried away our approval. However, like most colleagues here, we are responsible and we believe that there is an absolute need for continuity of public services. I have already mentioned it in the report and many colleagues say it: even better is there to be a new federal government, that we can finally discuss a full budget, about revenue and about expenditure. We need to be able to discuss something structural. I invite colleagues to read the reports of the incredibly interesting hearings we have had in the Finance Committee, with various experts and with the National Bank. What was the outcome of these hearings? We need to make more public investment. Good government investment, I'll say it myself. They are absolutely necessary for the revival of our country, we must do so. The role of the ECB, for example, was also discussed, absolutely necessary. It has also been mentioned in the resolution on Europe. That's what we have to do. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the sp.a has a proposal for this. We have worked out a new social deal to get our country back on track, to move forward together. We want to enter into this discussion immediately. We have a plan ready. Let's have the discussion. You know what we stand for, we want to discuss this openly. We hope there will be a new federal government soon, but that does not depend on us. We want to. Mr De Roover, it is very simple. It can happen very quickly. If we approve the new social deal, we'll have a government tomorrow. You're free to go. Look at it, say yes, and it's okay. We do have a problem: we want to change your policy a little bit. We're not okay with that policy. But you can vote for it. (Mr Calvo and Mr De Roover replicate without micro) With the debate on revenue and expenditure, I believe that we should not wait for a full budget. We can already have that discussion in the Finance Committee. That is where our proposals lie. I'm taking the securities tax off of it. It's less debatable. He's down as a priority. Let's discuss this and not push it away. Let's discuss this openly. We can do that now. I'm asking for that. There are other proposals to be made. So you cannot accuse us of being irresponsible. In the case of a government in current cases, or almost in current cases, Parliament has to take responsibility for a number of matters. That's not the first time. Otherwise there would be no deviations from the provisional twelfths. Now there are a lot of them. Here too, we will not do that for the first time. Thanks to Parliament and the colleagues of the Committee on Finance and Budget, for example, the previous section of provisional appropriations still in force added 1 billion commission for urgent COOVID-19 measures. This has been done thanks to Parliament, with majorities being voted on. Parliament has taken responsibility for the people. We want to do that again now. That is what this is about, not about our ego as politicians, as I said last week. We did the same with the Health Care Staff Fund. We have worked that out and are now in operation on the premises. Hospitals use it to recruit people. Don't believe me. You just have to ask the hospitals. They have been provided with resources and are able to recruit people. The first people started a long time ago, thank God. We have done the same for the 2020 budget, with a lot of people together. This has been worked out for the benefit of the people on the ground, for the benefit of nurses in hospitals, home nurses and for the benefit of training. That's good business, and we were all proud of it two weeks ago. That was a good thing. Parliament must do so and continue to do so. At least I'll keep doing that. For the resources and the additional needs of the people, there is Amendment No. 24 on mental health care. I have also explained in committee that we have drawn up a good resolution and a very good framework for this. We have tabled this together with Mrs Van Hoof, who was just present. We had a very good discussion on this in the Committee on Health. Colleagues, our mental health care is underfunded and more resources are needed for strong health care. Everyone agrees on that. I'm very zen. That was the case for the lockdown and that is certainly the case after the lockdown. Just look at the resilience exercises that are now in our hospitals. (Mr De Roover speaks without micro)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u78	That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bertels has the floor. Can we therefore respect the speaker? That is Mr De Roover's question and I will join him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u79	Mr President, everyone has said that action is needed in this area. We have already pointed that out to pre-corona. After all, I would remind you of the discussion we had with the Minister and the Ministers when we discussed the previous issue of provisional twelfths. At that time, we had the same discussion. The same amendment was tabled at the time. That is what this is about, and that is what Mr Vanbesien has said. Then we withdrew the amendment because there was a promise from the government to work on it. Promises must be kept. After all, everyone agrees on accessible and accessible mental health care. She needs to get there. We have worked out a very good framework for this in the Committee on Health, which makes it possible to do so. Colleagues, if promises are made, words must not be left alone. There must also be action. We must use these resources. You must read the text, which is well-motivated. The resources that can be used must be used on the basis of multidisciplinary consultation. This is possible within the convention system, within the consultation bodies of the RIZIV. There is work on the basis of budgetary resources. Resources are budgeted in the context of the health budget and the conventions, the consultative bodies, work out this. That is also possible with this. The actors are certainly ready for this, as demonstrated by the committee hearings with the actors in the field and the experts. As I said earlier, this will have immediate effect, no one will deny it. A third of the current budget of sickness benefit insurance is devoted to mental problems. We need to solve the mental problems, which will reduce benefits. There is even an economic argument, because the OECD has calculated that psychological problems cost us EUR 20 billion. I do not call it a return effect, but there is an immediate effect on the social well-being of our people; that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u80	Mr Bertels, when you call for responsibility, I think you are touching on a sensitive issue, especially in Parliament, and certainly on this issue. It is about people in the healthcare sector who have made enormous efforts during the corona crisis. The string is sensitive because we believe that these people should be treated seriously. We absolutely do not want promises to be kept that cannot be fulfilled quickly. I believe that Mr Verherstraeten's speech is in the same context. A budget works in a certain way. First there is a very thorough debate in Parliament, a majority is sought and the law is changed. Afterwards, the cost is calculated and then the cost is inserted into the budget. That's the normal way of working. Today, however, you are turning that order around. You start with the budget and then you say that you will then ensure that the money is spent and that it ends up with who it is to end up with. I understand that impatience, but I still have some questions. The substance of the debate is being held in Parliament at the moment. I refer to the texts by Mr Van Hoof and our N-VA colleague, Kathleen Depoorter, and you are also working very actively on them. At the moment, an in-depth resolution is being drawn up in Parliament which deepens and decides on a number of social choices. The logical approach would be to do so first and then look at the budgetary impact and translate it into the budget. However, you are doing the opposite. I am specifically concerned about this because, on a previous disc of the provisional twelfths, this has already happened with the EUR 400 million white blouse fund. There too the budget was hijacked and it was decided to spend the money after which we needed nine months to provide the legal basis for this so that the money could also be spent effectively on the ground. I would just like to express my very great concern here. You are making an important decision with this amendment, but at the same time you have a very great responsibility. We are sending out a signal to the health care sector that a premium will be awarded, and I hope that we will be able to count on you and the other colleagues to ensure that they do not have to wait nine months for the effective award of that premium. If that is the case, it will be the responsibility of the parties who have improperly handled this dossier. After all, they did not start with the content to end with the pennies, they wanted to put the pennies in the window immediately. Mr Bertels, I do not doubt your sincerity, and I even believe that you have a number of slopes in mind to achieve this. However, you will have to live up to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u81	I will try to make that happen with great pleasure and responsibility. I will go into the healthcare premium later because I was now at the point of mental health care. Mental health care isn't just pushing the cart in front of the horse...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u82	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u83	Okay, but I wasn't talking about the bounty yet. I was talking about mental health. The figure I have quoted comes from Zorgnet-Icuro, which has worked out a whole schedule for this. The actors in the field know what they want with it, within the framework we outline. So if one wants it to be implemented quickly, and that is what the actors want it to be. There's no doubt about that. All the parties have said they want to, they are asking party. There has been, for example, a state-general of mental health care, from which all kinds of plans have come up. The Knowledge Centre has carried out a study. There are all kinds of plans that are perfectly feasible in the first, second and third lines, with the networks and connections between them. It also contains the multidisciplinary consultation to which I referred in the amendment. I didn't invent that myself. I have had a lot of discussions on this with the actors in the field. Colleagues have heard all this in the hearings on mental health care. It has also been incorporated in the resolution on mental health, which will normally be on the agenda next week. I am giving credit to all my colleagues who have contributed to it, including colleagues from the minister's party. They also contributed positively to this. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point we must take responsibility for doing what we have promised and said. I come to the amendment on the solidarity premium. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, it is absolutely impossible for the consumer cheque, the EUR 300 that can be given to support cultural life, catering and local shops, to be socially and fiscally exempt and paid by the employer, to be given to certain workers, which is allowed and good, but not to those who, in your opinion, deserve it most, namely the care staff, because of, among other things, the financial situation of hospitals. The hospitals don't have the financial margin for that right now. As a federal government, we are the biggest funder of hospitals. The same applies to home nurses. They do not have the margin to give that EUR 300 to the care staff. That's not what we want, is it? That is why we want to ensure that the care staff, and preferably all the care staff for the residential care centres, have to look at the Länder, but we do have competence for the federal care staff, who are heroes of care in the federal health sectors, which can get EUR 300 in a similar way as the consumer cheque can be obtained. This is also important for the credibility of politics, ladies and gentlemen. We are not the ones who have begun promises to the care staff. They're members of the federal government. If promises are made, then it is credible that after the words, we should also have action followed. Not only applause, but also financial recognition for the heroes of care. For federal health care, we absolutely must do so. That is what we have dealt with here. This is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, as the people of the Health Committee know, for the motivation of our care staff. The motivation of the care staff was very high in the treatment of the corona crisis. I sincerely hope that it will not be necessary again, but perhaps we will need them again for a second wave. Let us hope not. Let us not demotivate them by false promises either. We must make a targeted investment for our care staff so that they can receive this solidarity premium, that consumer cheque, in accordance with the rules that exist. Yeah, that's executable, too. Yes, Mr. Loones, that's what pistes are for. There are even precedents for that. I have also made the calculation on the basis of the precedents that exist for staff in the federal health sector. I didn't go ice cream in one night. I had hoped the government would come up with it itself, but it didn't. So Parliament must assume its responsibilities. Let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen, to me this is not an either-or-story. This is clearly an en-en-story. I repeat what I said here last week: in the negotiations for a new social agreement aimed at reducing working pressure, improving working conditions and wage and working conditions, the Minister, who has imposed a deadline on himself, and who said in plenary that there would be a new social agreement by 21 July, is receiving full support. You have to. We will have to take structural measures. Those people are entitled to that. We're gonna need that care staff. Everyone here recognises the need to invest in care personnel. Madam Secretary, you have 110 percent of our support. You certainly need to conclude a good new social agreement. I'll leave the discussion on IFIC to you. Yes, there must be structural refinancing within the framework of the social agreement for our care staff. It's one and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u84	Mr Bertels, thank you for your support in the negotiation of a new social agreement which I am undertaking together with Mrs Muylle, the Minister of Work, and Minister Clarinval, but I am surprised. However, did you inform the other people sitting around the table? The first requirement of the trade unions is the implementation of IFIC at 100%. The second requirement is not a premium. Someone at the table even said it would be cynical to give a shit. They want structural wage support for the following years. I am surprised to hear you say that you support me in concluding a new social agreement while making other choices. That is what you have done this evening with the adoption of that amendment. Perhaps you would also like to know about what is said at the table? We are indeed far away after four or five meetings. It is the trade unions who have asked for a knockdown by 21 July. I accepted that. I think it's getting smoother and smoother. You're quoting something else that they don't consider unisono important. Mr Hellendorf, on behalf of the Common Trade Union Front, said that the premiums meant nothing to them. They want a structural wage premium for all people in care. What you're doing isn't for all the people in the care. You exclude categories. I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u85	Madam Secretary, you haven't listened very carefully. It's an en-en-story. Mr Van Quickenborne, I did not promise that one-off premium. Those were two ministers of your party. If one promises that, one must do the same. If these ministers cannot, will or may not keep their promise, I shall leave it all in the middle, then Parliament must accept its responsibility. It's an en-en-story. You are well aware of the need for structural measures, Madam Secretary. Let the negotiations run until 21 July. It will have to be structural working and wage conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u86	(...) 200 million euros here and 300 million euros there. I want all of that. For me, it may be EUR 2 billion, but it must come to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u87	But it's up to everyone the federal government has jurisdiction over, unless you want to give federal money to something else. It's up to the whole federal health sector. You shouldn't say that's not true. Everyone's been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u88	[[(...) that the people of the residential care centers...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u89	Do the residential care centers fall under the federal government? You should know that by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u90	I'm just telling you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u91	They don't belong to the federal government. I assume you know that by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u92	Mr Bertels, I would like to hear you say that it is an en-en-story. If so, how will you finance it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u93	I have already said that we have a proposal before us in the Finance Committee. Vote it and it's more than funded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u94	(...) of the Communists, is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u95	We didn't file that, it's not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u96	I keep seeing that creativity comes up when people are looking for money. If we ask how we want to increase pensions and minimum wages, this will always be done with a tax. The creativity of that tax comes up again, but in the meantime the holes are getting bigger and bigger. Frankly, they are noble initiatives, but what worries me is the frivolity with which money is spent here every week and which increases wells that will have to be filled by future generations afterwards. I expect more responsibility from a party like yours, which I highly estimate. This is a dangerous budgetary risk you are taking, which is why our party is concerned and I hope that many people are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u97	Mr Loones, I think you are breaking all the records in terms of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u98	Mr President, I feel that there is some tension, so I would like to come up with a compromise. The train tickets are still coming, they are not going to be put to the vote today. What is before us today, Mr Bertels, Mr Van Quickenborne, is to return to the migration policy that was pursued by Mr Theo Francken. Your Minister has distanced himself from this migration policy. She has even literally said that she wants to pursue a different policy, a more open one. That's a literal quote, I think, or it looks a lot like it. With this lax policy, we are spending EUR 180 million extra on asylum reception today, so in addition to the EUR 400 million we normally give, EUR 180 million will be added. We have tabled an amendment to return to Theo Francken's policy, which means that we are saving EUR 180 million. This will allow us to pay almost five or six times the healthcare premium for the healthcare sector. So you do not need to look for new taxes, we have a saving for you. All you have to do is push the green button when the amendment tabled by Theo Francken, a very good colleague, is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u99	It was about an open migration policy, Mr Francken, and then you came in. Mr Bertels, would you like to make an attempt to move forward and round off more or less?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u100	Mr President, I will conclude. Mr Van Quickenborne, for us this is responsible expenditure. For most of our colleagues, this is responsible expenditure. We are as concerned about the gaps in the budget as you are. We have other solutions to this; you may need to look at them. We've submitted our new social deal. We've presented our election program like you. It's financially viable. You should take a look at it, and you can go along with it, and we will solve that problem fairly and fairly, perhaps for the better. For us, this issue, both for mental health care and for the care staff that it deserves, is not something like spilling money. This is just responsible, and those people deserve to get this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very interesting debate, where I hear the words budgetary orthodoxy and responsibility fall and where, on the one hand, there is a knock on the chest that we are giving that care premium and, on the other hand, care is going to be compared with F-35 devices. That's hallucinating. We are talking about public health and care for our patients. The word I have not heard in any of these discussions is the pharmacodynamic budgetary insight. We'll put the health budget against a plane, a car or anything. No, ladies and gentlemen, in the budget for health, we need to think very carefully about how we are going to deal with this concern and how we are going to organise the future of care. Then we are doing well, then we are working on the care and then we are talking not about a premium, but about structural changes. Then we'll do it on a scientific basis. Health economists are enough to point out that we can save between 10 and 15% in the healthcare budget, to reinvest in healthcare and to make a future plan, in which our patients and our healthcare providers are at the heart of the matter. That has made me very disappointed here tonight during the three hours I have been sitting here. I therefore invite everyone to discuss this effectively in the forthcoming parliamentary debates and, away from the symbolic discussions, to really take care of the health budget. After all, efficiency gains are not just anything. They can be realized in medical imaging. They can be realized in the global medical records by scaling up the files. They can be realized in biosimilars. They can be realized in the billing of hospitals. All these concrete proposals can and will be discussed in the Committee on Health and may also be very interesting for the members of the Committee on Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a tip to the group if we really want to work and save on a structural basis in the field of public health. A number of parties put re-federalisation on the table. Well, by regionalising, we will make structural choices, and this will also provide structural money. However, I would like to put that aside. In any case, the sp.a. is well aware that our group would have preferred to have this discussion before adopting amendments. Moreover, Members pointed out the importance of drawing up a legal framework first and then filling in what we will do with the money. I was surprised that the Minister, from the start of the discussion of the report, was very proud to announce that resources for mental health care and first-line psychology had already been registered. That's right. There were. With 500,000 euros per year and 500 connected first-line psychologists, we did indeed have first-line psychology.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u102	Mrs Depoorter, it was EUR 22 million and that amount is already higher by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u103	Madam Secretary, you are talking about the year 2019. You've read the KCE report. Well, that concludes that Belgium is stuck with psychiatric care. That is why a resolution has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u104	It's about psychological care, not psychiatric care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u105	It's about the totality of mental health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u106	The measures have been taken for psychological care, not for psychiatric care. I assume you know that difference, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u107	You want to separate the two? Mrs. De Block, you're a doctor, you know better than that. It is quite clear that there are payback effects; Mr Bertels has referred to them. It is precisely because it is also thought from a pharmacodynamic point of view that the N-VA Group was very keen to join Mrs Van Hoof's proposal and co-signed it. We know the needs, we know the problems in the sector: young people and older people do not have enough access to first-line psychologists. We're going wider and deeper. It was better for the scheme to have come about in a different way, but we will at least be able to spend the resources now that they are registered. I also find it difficult to compare the one-off costs of EUR 38 million compared to recurrent costs of EUR 450 million for scaling up the IFIC. That's not a comparison, Madam Secretary. It is true that the N-VA fraction is a cool lover of one-off care premiums. We prefer to intervene in a structural way. I understand that at the table with the social partners the care premium is not the first to be considered, of course not. Contrary to agreements already concluded in 2014 and for which funds have still not been released, you are now proposing a one-off €300 premium for nurses in federal institutions and hospitals. That's not a correct equation. Where are we supposed to go? We need to get to a pay scale. We need to get more hands on the bed. It has been scientifically proven that more hands on the bed result in fewer deaths, less chronic sick, more active people. How are we going to get our budget back in order? By getting our people to work, by increasing our activation rate. This is how public health and activation go hand in hand. That is how we must reason; that is what we are expected to do. Many colleagues have already said that we will not make it through a care premium or corona compensation. In any case, it is not possible for those who have given the best of themselves in the private sector during the corona crisis to receive the premium, while those who have worked in the home care centres, who have also worked day and night, had to do it for 12 hours with the same protective suit, wear a mouth mask the previous week and feel protected with it, take leave of colleagues and accompany the dying, fall out of the boat. Today they have to get back to work and perhaps they will be reassigned to a second wave. I believe that they really deserve that premium and that we can support the proposal in this respect. The form may not be as it should be, but no one in the hemisphere can say that they would not deserve a care premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw has already said a number of things. I think we're the only party that's put forward proposals to put money on the line. Small proposals are also proposals. All the little bits help. The amendment we have just tabled aims to halve ministers' wages. Maybe that doesn't mean the big numbers we've heard today on an annual basis, but symbolically that could mean a huge added value for the population. We will continue to raise these dossiers. Why do we insist on this? That's obvious. You live with your political caste in a bubble, over which many virologists would frown the eyebrows. At EUR 10,000 a month, ministers are among the very best earners in our country. You share a living world with the 1% of bankers and managers. You must ask yourselves who you represent. Politics must just represent the people. The PVDA lives on an employee's wage. You know that. At the end of the month we must also see that we are coming, just like the people, with all the measures you take here every time. We feel how hard that social policy has been cutting in over the past few years and not you. That really is a democratic problem. We have already put forward the proposal of the one-off spirit of solidarity in response to the corona crisis. Many countries have shown us this: Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece, Morocco. There, politics paid back part of the wages out of solidarity. Belgium misses that opportunity again. That one-off contribution would have been an important signal. What is even more important is that we systematically reduce the generous wages of politicians. That's how we get politics out of his worldly bubble. Moreover, today's debate on the invoice of the corona crisis has been erupted from all sides. We've heard numbers that we're falling back on. We just haven't heard who's going to pay that bill, but we do have a hunch. We're going billions in red. We say clearly: go get the money where it is! Let the politicians who make a lot of money put a dime in the bag. It is time for politics to get down on the ground and feel what it means to just have to live with a wage. That is why we hope to finally find a majority in favour of our proposal to limit the culture of gray.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u109	Mr President, we hear the colleague of the PTB talking as if we were all living in a bubble. At the same time, there is an amendment by his group today to delete the budget for all fighter aircraft. Then I sincerely ask myself: who the hell lives in a bubble? Very briefly a number of facts, Mr Colebunders. Firstly, in recent decades, no department has saved as much as Defence. Of every 100 euros of tax money, only 1.6 euros goes to the Defense Department. Secondly, the F-35 devices last for 40 years and in those 40 years together they will cost EUR 12 billion. All included. Flight hours, personnel and so on. In the same 40 years, healthcare will cost 1,700 billion. The pensions amount to another 2000 billion. Perhaps compare that 3,700 billion with the 12 billion for the fighter planes, and please tell me where the ratio would be wrong. Thirdly, contracts have been signed to buy those planes. Anyone who would terminate these contracts, which you seem to be proposing, Mr President, will also have to take responsibility for the fact that compensation is to be paid. Tax money that would be spent in an unusable way. Fourthly, Corona learns that we have to protect ourselves. Today we have a health crisis. A few years ago, we had a terrorist crisis. Unfortunately, in the future, we can expect to see new security crises again. Let us hope not too much and not too soon. What do we see? Defence has a role to play in this, and yes, our air combat capability also plays an important role in this. That is what Mr Van Hees says in committee is that this is for distant foreign nationals and not all important for security here on our territory. That's just not right. The fighting capacity is also extremely important for the security of the airspace of this country, of the Netherlands, of the whole of the European Union and of our NATO partners. It is also important to combat terrorists in the countries where they live, such as the Middle East. Fifth and finally, Limburg. In the middle of the corona crisis, Limburg was the most affected province. Defence then ensured that the people who were too ill and could not be taken care of in Limburg hospitals were transported safely to other hospitals in the country. Those who think they need to create a tension between health and safety do no one a service, especially the Limburgers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u110	Mr President, I am pleased to be able to respond to points that I have not even raised through our amendment. Mr. Loones, with N-VA, you have proven that you were the best in Latin, but mathematics wasn't your strong suit. I'd like some answers to what you're saying. It's about making choices. Let's go to Limburg. I worked at the Ford factory. At some point we all lost our jobs, a failure for the whole of Limburg. I have to make a choice between either the PlayStation asking my kids for Christmas or giving them a sandwich. What choice would you make, Mr. Loones? I ask you the question, you may answer, but you don't have to. I will answer myself: I make sure my children have sandwiches first; then the PlayStation comes. People of our people are hungry. You have just said twenty times and argued with figures how good your policy was. Well, I'll tell you what I take as a measure. Child poverty in Belgium has only increased, poverty in general has also increased in Belgium, and the number of unemployed in Belgium has also increased. That's thanks to you guys. At the end of the journey, just before the corona crisis, the budget deficit appears to be EUR 13 billion. That's because of your policy. Then I would like to make the final statement on the cost of the F-35s and their possible proceeds. All our proposals and amendments raise money. You are putting forward other dossiers, which have absolutely nothing to do with my amendment. But, yeah, that's how we know you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u111	Mr Loones, I see that you are asking for the floor. I've been very generous in all the interruptions. Come on, the debate at the committee meeting is all over again. It's 11:30 in the meantime. I don't know if you're still asking questions about the relevance of this. I've received a motion. There's another item on the agenda. I don't understand where they're going with this. Speakers from all political groups have been addressed. There is now just a game made from one to the other and back. You cannot claim that I did not give you the floor, Mr Loones. You have spoken at least six or seven times, just now in reply to Mr Colebunders. You have put forward facts about which Mr Colebunders had not even spoken. Let us now try to conclude this general discussion. Mr Colebunders also finished his speech. I would ask the government to give a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u112	Mr President, I would like to discuss another amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u113	Mr Francken, we are now in the middle of a general discussion. First, we'll have a general discussion. When it is completed, we will discuss the amendments. That's how it works. Mr Donné, you are still asking for the floor? May I assume this is the last intervention? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u114	Mr President, I will try to be brief. Mr Minister, today we are discussing the new provisional twelfths, with a new plea from me to the police. I do so every time, both in committee and in plenary, when discussing provisional appropriations, as long as there is no final solution to the police end-of-life system. Part of it has already been resolved: for the local police, we found a solution at the beginning of the year on the initiative of Mrs Taquin and myself, among others. You followed up on that, and thank you for that. As far as the federal police are concerned, however, I also noted this in committee last week, but no funds have yet been allocated, both to the movers and to the keepers of the NAVAP system. However, these resources are urgently needed. I also informed you of the amount needed for funding: EUR 34 million on an annual basis. You promised to take action at the committee meeting. My amendment was not accepted. You said that you would see whether the inter-departmental commission could be used, but you committed yourself to finding a solution for the federal police, both for the movers and for the keepers, and that that solution would be found before the plenary session to which the provisional twelfths would be addressed today. I was therefore pleasantly surprised a few days ago when I read that you argued at the heart of the matter and that you would have been allowed to grant a grant of EUR 34 million to the federal police for 2020, which would cover the NAVAP system, both for the movers and for the keepers. I would like to thank you for that, but I will first listen to your explanations and explanations. I would like to ask you to take account of the urgency of these resources. Since you would like to work through the interdepartmental commission in the budget, I would ask you to make a redistribution decision as soon as possible and certainly before the start of the recess on 21 July so that the commitments you have made will be respected. I would like confirmation that the funds will be made available to our police before the recess. Since they serve our community and give the best of themselves daily, it is only right that we should give them such support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u115	Mr President, I will try to be brief while answering all the questions that have been asked to me. First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Van der Donckt that we are not going to repeat the debate on the macroeconomic figures which we have had the opportunity to discuss in very detail in committee. I can only repeat them here. The figures announced remain to the same extent. Like other members of this House, I deplore the fact that we are still working in provisional twelfths. I would also have preferred to have a full budget. I confess, as I have already done in committee, that I tried to see if it was possible – not with another government party but with a contact outside the three government parties – to make a six-month budget. I didn't feel an overwhelming enthusiasm in the exchanges I had. So I didn't go any further. That is why we continue to work in provisional twelfths. Mr Gilkinet, Mr Bertels and others, with regard to the two amendments voted on this afternoon, as I said earlier and as my colleague, Maggie De Block, pointed out, in substance, whether it be the premium or the intervention for psychological care, the Government is in favour of the measures that have been mentioned. Most of the parties in the enlarged Kern were also present during these debates. As Maggie De Block has said, we have already met with the trade unions five times to objectiveise and have an agreement with them to refinance the hospitals but also to raise the wages of these workers. Work's going well. It is clear that we have not yet reached a conclusion, but we should be able to do so quite quickly. As far as the substance of the two amendments is concerned, I repeat that we have not made any criticisms. On the other hand, we find the form somewhat deplorable for several reasons. First of all, these two amendments disrupt these negotiations. As Ms De Block said, the unions made it clear that they were not asking for the bonus. I can confirm that. They asked for other things, but they said, "The bonus is not a claim we make." Therefore, by proposing these amendments, you intervene directly in the negotiations. Secondly, this represents an estimated cost of approximately €237 million on an annual basis. It's not nothing, and no funding is planned. So it's a little the same story as for other similar events. Expenditure is forecast, but the corresponding income is not available. Besides, I don't have a legal basis to spend that money. Will it be a bonus? All you did was put an amount in the budget. You don't have a legal mechanism to spend it. If it is a bonus, will it be defied? I don't know. You could imagine taxes on that income. Let's be good. I have no legal basis for applying these two amendments. So we will inevitably have to talk about it again. I don't see how I can apply them. I also told you in a meeting, Mr Bertels, that creates discrimination. You assumed that these bonuses would only be awarded to federal health care personnel. However, care workers who have been on the front line, whom we applauded because they deserved it, will not have this bonus. I'm thinking about those who work in nursing homes, and other levels. You therefore assume that there will be discrimination among those who worked during this crisis of the VOCID-19. I'll add one more item. I may be a little hard, but I find that there is some kind of lack of loyalty on the part of some parties that have attended all the superkerns, that have participated in the discussions and that today, passing through the window as Mr Verherstraeten has said, come to have this text voted when they have the opportunity to do so via the superkerns. I therefore deplore the form, and I take note of the decision. Mr Laaouej, I have heard your question about the immunisation of the public debt corona towards the European Commission. I obviously share this objective, as I told you in committee, but I have no more confidence than I did 15 days ago that this will be the case. I'm not yet in a position to confirm that. I hope, however. Mr Vermeersch, for the EUR 55 million you are talking about Fedasil, as Mrs Maggie De Block has confirmed, we are based on the 2018 budget. At the time, reserves had been established and had been used at a cost of 87 million, which should therefore be offset. This is why these amounts have been recorded. In addition, $10 million was transferred. You are aware that this year is a bit special, since the Aliens Office has been closed, resulting in flow problems. All these reasons justify the amount mentioned. Mr Hedebouw, with regard to aircraft, Mr Loones has brought a lot of perfectly valid arguments which join mine: when you break a contract, you pay compensation. I will only address this aspect, as Mr Loones has given several relevant elements. In this case, not only would this breach of contract cost us a lot, but we would also not honour our commitments to NATO and our international partners. I know that at the PTB, the Atlantic Alliance may not be your preferred partner in your international ties. In any case, as far as we are concerned, an agreement is important. We therefore wish to respect it. Finally, Mr.Donné, you are right about the NAPAP (non-pre-pension activity) plan. I'll give you the information in this area. Fifteen days ago in committee, I made a commitment to come here with a solution. I found her. It was negotiated with the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and with my colleague Pieter De Crem and the Finance Inspectorate, so that we could agree on the figures. By way of summary, I would like to inform you that, for the local police, we are going to grant an amount of EUR 51 million, in addition to the EUR 46 million already committed at the beginning of the year, resulting in a total of EUR 97 million, which covers 100% of the local NAPAP schemes. This is more than in the past, since the previous envelope covered only part of the NAPAPs. For the federal police, we reached an agreement, as there were previously differences in interpretation of the figures. The amount of EUR 34 million is foreseen for this purpose. In addition, $13 million had already been programmed in previous budgets. With an additional $21 million, we will cover 100% of the federal NAPAP plans. In addition, in this agreement, we added a icing on the cake, to the tune of 30 million for police investments. We have responded to requests for IT, rolling stock and radio equipment. It is clear that this agreement has been validated in Kern as well as by the Finance Inspectorate. But I undertake to table before 21 July a text that contains three elements. Firstly, this text will include a part on NAPAP regimes, which I have just mentioned. Secondly, it will include changes to the allocations to the federated entities, which I spoke to you about in committee. The law on the financing of the federated entities provides that we shall give the Communities and the Regions amounts in proportion to the growth of the previous year. Since the growth of the previous year is obviously much greater than that of this year, we have agreed, with the Communities and the Regions, not to grant them the amount envisaged in order to smooth the impact of coronavirus over time. Indeed, if we give the amount expected this year, we should give a much lower amount next year. The Communities and the Regions, unanimously, wanted this to be smoothed out in order to avoid a brutal impact next year. Thirdly, I think that it will, unfortunately, also be necessary to come with a new billion to meet the expenditure; this will therefore be a third billion in the interdepartmental provision. In summary, I will have to present you before July 21st – it is normally possible –, if you agree, this text which will take over the NAPAP file, the amendments for the federated entities and one billion more for the interdepartmental provision. It's a bit of a pot-pourri text, as my colleague from Justice would say. It will be a single text, because the situation is what it is. I thank you already for your cooperation in concluding these three very important points. Mr President, I think I have answered the main questions. I do not enter into all the polemics that have sparked this debate, which is very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u116	Minister, I would just like to correct what you said about the costs of asylum seekers. We've talked about that a lot. The budget foreseen in the 2018 budget was €262 million. If we take four months of that now, four twelfths, we will have EUR 87 million. Ultimately, EUR 142 million will be spent here or an increase of EUR 55 million compared to the 2018 budget. At the first provisional twelfths, an increase of EUR 87 million was already requested and an increase of EUR 42 million for the second provisional twelfths. If we take these things together, we can see that there is an overrun of the budget, the original 261 million euros, by 84 %. That is a fact, that is what the budget says, that is what one reads out of the tables, that is what one should not be a great mathematician for. I want to see that correctly, however, that there is almost a doubling of the budget this year. We will see what it will be for the last few months of 2020, but we will hold our hearts for what is to come. Surely that must be corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u117	Mr. Chairman, I heard the minister say that a bonus is not going to solve everything. It's obvious. Minister, the initiative of my colleague from Sp.A. is to remind you of a promise you made a few weeks ago. I heard you and Minister De Block say that we need a structural solution. Can I interpret this as an agreement-in-principle on the part of ministers on the sector's claim book, which is being negotiated today and which is estimated at 700 or 800 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u118	The negotiations are under way and I am not committed to any envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u119	There is no refusal on the part of the minority government to be able to meet budgetary demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u120	My colleagues Muylle and De Block and I are attending meetings with union representatives. We listen and work on claims. It's probably going up, but I can't tell you exactly how high it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u121	I take it that's going to go up. We will know how high in the coming days. This is an important signal from the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u122	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your answers, in particular for taking on board the concerns of Mr Joy Donné and guaranteeing these investments in our police force, investments in both pensions and equipment. We examined these provisional twelfths for the first time a few weeks ago and discussed them in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. At that time, we explicitly asked you whether we should provide additional funds for the corona commission, because the EUR 2 billion would not be enough. We asked if we should provide for some extra, to be sure. Your answer was negative at the time. This afternoon, in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, no mention was made of the need to extend this commission. So it is a little surprising to find out that this will be the case now. This means that we will once again have a bit of art and flying work, both in the Committee on Finance and the Budget and here in plenary, in order to adopt an amended version of these provisional twelfths before 21 July. That could have been avoided if we had done so this afternoon in committee. Perhaps that would have been a little more transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u123	As far as the provision is concerned, I want to be transparent with you. At the last committee meeting, the addition to the provision was in the order of €1.8 billion. I think everyone remembers that. You will also agree that 1.8 billion euros is almost 2 billion euros. We agree. However, some of the files on the table could quickly lead to a further EUR 2 billion. Here I take an example that won't surprise anyone. I think I've already talked to Mr Bertels about this. If SN Brussels Airlines' file were to come to the table, it would be well over EUR 2 billion. We are at the end of June and you are aware that after 21 July, the parliamentary holidays are coming... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u124	And governmental! I would indeed like to take a holiday this year. I'm not hiding it from you. In the meantime, I don't want to fall with an interdepartmental supply too short in the middle of August. I guess you don't want me to call you back either. Even Mr. Hedebouw doesn't want me to call him back on August 15 to come and vote on this. Therefore, it is a little as a precaution that I will be asking, in the next few days, for a third billion to spend August and September and so that we can, I hope, see us again in September-October, at the beginning of Parliament, without having to appeal to you in the heart of the holidays. So it's a little bit of a third billion precaution, but I'm not telling you that we may still need it, in part at least. I wanted to be transparent with you. Mr Loones, I agree with you. Fifteen days ago, the figures were $1.8 billion, but things are moving very fast at the moment. On the other hand, negotiations are still under way with the health care sector and I do not rule out that there are demands there too. A wise man is worth two!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u125	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u126	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1300/1+7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1300/1+7) The bill has 35 articles. The draft law has 35 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u127	Annex V.Part • 29 years Marco Van Hees (1300/8) • 33 Wouter Vermeersch cs (1300/8) • 26 years Theo Francken (1300/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u128	Theo Francken (1300/8) • 30 years Marco Van Hees (1300/8) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 22/1(n) • 31 October 1997 Marco Van Hees (1300/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u129	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u130	Sustained: the amendments, Article 2 and the annexed tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u131	Article adopted by article: 1, 3 to 35. ****** Mr Francken asked to speak to defend his amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u132	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I would like to make another brief comment. I have tried to find out in committee, but I have not received any clear answers. I have tabled three amendments to Section 13, FPS Home Affairs, Migration Policy. Once again, a great deal of money is being asked for asylum reception in this country, more than EUR 55 million. Of that, EUR 10 million is a transfer, so I have no problem with that, but EUR 45 million is an extra budget. It is said that it is the same budget as in 2018. I don't understand. I don't know what this is about. I've contacted my advisor on budgets just to be sure. The 2018 budget was 261 million euros. That was what was in the budget, so saying that the funds are simply transferred and that everything is actually the same, I do not understand at all. It is a matter of extra new budget. I repeat that I understand the difficult situation of asylum services, especially during this corona crisis. I also understand that, in the case of multiple asylum applications, a limitation has indeed been achieved thanks to the fact that I admit it is a creative solution to restrict secondary migratory flows to our country. In any case, I think it would be better to change the law on childcare for that purpose. I have submitted a proposal to that effect and have received your opinion, Mrs De Block. That will be discussed in Parliament shortly. However, I still believe that the approach of autumn 2018 should have been continued. We must make it clear that there is a limit to the whole asylum story. The government must dare to say that it also stops somewhere and to restrict, in principle, the reception of certain categories, such as young single men, who came from Palestine on a massive scale, to a certain number of people per day, because the asylum centres are simply full. Basically, the entire reception network is still full. There are still a lot of reception problems, although the influx has fallen sharply and the occupancy rate, I assume, will have fallen somewhat, albeit not so much. The corona situation has not made much progress with the work, as I have noticed from the number of files handled per month at the CGVS. One takes care of the other, of course. The occupancy rate remains very high. In this respect, we believe that the money would not have been necessary if another slope had been followed. That's what we're sticking with. We also believe that too much money goes to shelter. This is a unique crisis in Belgium; there is no such crisis in other European countries. There should have been another policy; that can still be done. The second amendment concerns return policy. I understand that the return policy has virtually stopped at the moment, which makes sense. The boundaries are pretty much closed, too. There is only talk of a return within Europe and probably also to Albania and the Balkans. However, return countries such as Morocco have not yet opened their borders. So we can't go back there. However, you apply minus costs for the next four months. But do you expect the return procedures to be restarted? That must be the intention and ambition. That is why we want to give the return policy sufficient resources instead of saving money or removing money from that budget. An amount of EUR 1.1 million is not a high figure, but it is important to give extra money to the return service so that it can work properly and efficiently after the corona period when work is restarted. That is a very important point for us. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my third point has already been raised on a number of occasions. You are no longer responding to it, because it apparently confronted you at the beginning of your term of office, when you were just Minister. I don't blame you, either. It is about the extra budget for the Department of Foreign Affairs, especially for the Department of Access and Stay. I'm gonna keep hammering on that. We have had a lot of debates on family reunification and on legislation in this area. One of the most painful points that emerged from these debates on, among other things, the Foreign Affairs Office was that there was a great deal of delay in dealing with the family reunification files. There was an explicit demand from the foreign services for extra money, so that more staff could be recruited and family reunification applications could be dealt with more efficiently and more quickly. You promised that money on the committee. You actually came back to that. I don't really think that's a way of working. The Foreign Office and the officials on Access and Accommodation have read your promise and feel fooled. They are asking for this extra money to be made available so that the services can do their job. At the moment thousands of family reunification cases are not dealt with and they receive positive news after 12 months, because if an application is not answered within 12 months, the person concerned will receive a visa. I cannot imagine that the MR, your chairman and other parties in the government could support such a policy. That money is necessary. I'm gonna keep knocking on that nail until there's effective extra cash for the Access and Stay Service. Mrs De Block, I do not need to remind you that it is a pain that the waiting lists at the Family Reunion Service are rising so that thousands of files get visas without one person looking at them. That is a very unhealthy situation. We're letting people into our country we haven't even looked at the file. That is a very painful reality. It's about 3 to 6 million euros. With EUR 2 million, the service will be welcomed, which will enable 40 staff to be recruited. Give me the money. That's really important. We're talking billions, here 100 million, there 200 million or 300 million. We're talking about hundreds of millions for social security. I'm asking for an extra 4 to 6 million euros for Access and Stay. I have to ask for this time and again and again, and I always get a negative answer to that, even if you have promised me that, Minister. I am very sorry that this is the way it is going, and so I will continue to bang on that nail and table that amendment, including in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u133	Does the government still want to answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u134	With regard to these three amendments, the derogation of EUR 55 million has already been mentioned. The use of Fedasil's reserves in 2018, amounting to EUR 85 million, must be compensated. A transfer of 10 million euros to the Régie must be returned but, above all, we observe a larger occupation of the reception network. Because of the pandemic, there are no outflows. In mid-March, the Aliens Office closed its windows for two weeks. Since then, applicants have come by appointment and, as in the case of hearings at the Office of the Commissioner General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA), the pace of processing of cases is not pre-pandemic. Our estimate for the fourth quarter shows a negative balance of EUR 18 million. Indeed, in the first quarter, the derogation concerned advances for agreements between Fedasil and the partners. As you know, Mr. Franken, host partners such as the Red Cross have a contractual right to receive at the beginning of the year a 25% advance of the previous year's expenditure to finance their operations. It is therefore logical to recover part of these advances a posteriori. As far as return policy is concerned, my colleague Maggie De Block and I have reiterated that it is the good cooperation with Frontex (in particular the special flights that bring illegal migrants back to their country of origin) that enables the Belgian State to achieve an economy on repatriation costs. Indeed, the related expenditure is borne by Europe. Since the beginning of March, it has been difficult to talk about return policy because of the closure of many borders. I now turn to the debate which has been of concern to us for some time now, namely the service of the Office for Foreigners. It goes without saying that all recruitment procedures have been blocked since the beginning of the health crisis and that recruitment of staff was already not easy before the crisis, due to the lack of candidates on the labour market and the various procedures to be followed. My collaborators have had the opportunity to meet with the administrations and the Strategic Cell of Asylum and Migration on several occasions. The profiles to be recruited are established. All we have to do is start the proceedings. For my part, I can assure you once again: what I said in plenary session on 12 December 2019 is still relevant. The three million announced are indeed provided for in the interdepartmental provision. There are two million for the Aliens Office and one million for the CGRA. It is clear, however, that it is not for me, the Minister of Budget, to decide whether to allocate these resources to a specific service, be it the Asylum Service or the Access and Residence Service. It is up to the executive committee and the minister responsible, in particular, to determine the needs within the Aliens Office. As far as I am concerned, I can assure you that the latest update for 2020 and 2021 of the personnel appropriations shows that there is even a margin of 4.4 million in the staff appropriations of the Office for Foreigners today. With a total of 6.4 million (2 + 4.4), the Agency is therefore able to increase its workforce by approximately 200 full-time equivalents. Therefore, this is not at present a budgetary problem but a recruitment problem. The evidence is that there is no request for an exemption from the three-twelfth rule for staff credits for asylum bodies. We have even provided $45 million for the interdepartmental provision, as it is expected that the flow into the host network will return rapidly to a normal level, or even higher than previously. Indeed, the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) has already warned in May that there will be a sharp increase in migratory flows to Europe in the coming months. In addition, applications have been awaiting registration since the beginning of the pandemic and, of course, we must honour our commitments. I come to the relocation of 1,600 people. This approach is long overdue and produces a high rate of occupancy in the host network. This is more a recruitment problem than a budget problem. Of these services, there is a significant turnover rate of staff. Staff do not increase quickly enough to perform the necessary work. In any case, in budgetary terms, I confirm to you that the means are there. Mr President, I hope I have been very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u135	Mr President, Minister, you say that EUR 10 million must be deducted from the EUR 45 million because it has been repaid to the Government of the Buildings. I'll take that as a supposition. That's what I said, by the way. I notice that you say that there was no more outflow from the network during the pandemic, because there was no influx. The Little Castle was closed. There were no new asylum applications from Corona. Yet you say that there is no more outflow. I am very sorry about that. The CGVS also has a piece of flattened by corona. I understand in particular that the CGVS and the asylum services said that no new interviews were being conducted. You should know, there are thousands of files behind schedule. I would then think that with regard to all the dossiers in which interviews have already been conducted and where conclusions have finally to be drawn, the people working at home can finish those files. I'm actually disappointed in the number of files handled by the CGVS, because that's going to be on the website every month. I'm disappointed this isn't higher. I also don't understand why this can't go any higher. I have already said that. In that sense, I am surprised to hear you say that the reception network remains very dense and that there is no more outflow than usual. There hasn't been an influx. How come there's no more outflow? There is something fundamentally wrong. That is a question of poor management in my view. You say you need less money, thanks to the good cooperation with Frontex. I'm happy for that. We set up this cooperation a few years ago. However, there is also a huge shortage of personnel on return services, CID, identification of illegal immigrants, identification of people with criminal records, etc. There's a huge shortage there, people are crying out for people. That is why we say to provide extra money. I understand that Frontex is taking on part of the return flight bill. That is a very good thing. Let Europe pay for it. They can pay something, too. They don't always need money from us. We can get something back, too. Good. But let us use that money to strengthen the return services. Thirdly, you say that you are sticking to the point you made in December, namely that EUR 3 million is provided for in the interdepartmental commission, EUR 2 million for the DVD and EUR 1 million for the CGIS. However, this is specifically about asylum, not about entry and residence. Mrs De Block has asked for this money in the context of the asylum crisis and apparently it has not yet been included. However, it is not intended for entry and residence or for family reunification, the major problem. You also mentioned the amount of EUR 4.4 million of DVZ's staff credit that has not been drawn up at the moment. Minister, if I have understood you correctly, that is what you are saying. There is therefore in fact no problem with money, but with recruitment. Why doesn't Mr. Roosemont launch? Why doesn't he work with Selor to ensure that these personnel are recruited? After all, there's plenty of money. I've heard that for years, your Budget department told my services at the time that they didn't have to worry because there was money available. Mrs Wilmès also said that there was money at the time. But then the money turned out to be blocked by the Budget. That's the well-nothing game I've been through in the administration for years. One administration says that there is enough money and that one can recruit while the other administration says that it does not get the money unblocked and can therefore not recruit via Selor. Clearly, there is still no solution. At that time, I sat with colleagues, including Mr Vandeput, who was then responsible for civil servants' cases, to see if Selor could resolve that. That was not possible at the time, and I understand that this has still not been achieved two years later, which is particularly regrettable. So the same story is going on again. I hope that with the economic crisis and the technical unemployment we now know, enough people can be found for a job in the Foreign Office so that the files can finally be dealt with more quickly. After all, who will suffer if one or two years have to wait to deal with family reunification? Those are the people who are asking for this family reunification. As mayor, I get it on my desk too. They ask why it takes so long. I'm in love and I'm married to someone from abroad. I'd like the visa to work out. We don't depend on the government. I have a good job. I could live here. I'm in love. Why can't he come? They have to wait and wait, sometimes a year and a half, before that visa comes. Who else is the victim of this inefficient government? Those are all those people who mean well with that foreign policy. They have no bad intentions at all with our country or who we are. They fell in love with a girl or boy from abroad. They'd like it to come here. They apply for that visa, but then have to wait for months, until even a year or two years. I'm really sorry about that. Let us therefore just provide for that reinforcement. Mrs De Block, I really hope this will be looked at again. Your Minister for the Budget says that there is now EUR 4.4 million available to recruit. I hope this will happen, because this is a road without end. I'm asking for money now. Your minister says this is not necessary, because there's plenty of money. Just turn it on. Why doesn't the DVZ do that? When I myself was qualified, I said to my top official: what is the point? Why don't you just do that? Who's right now? I hope that this can be addressed and that we will soon be able to strengthen the Family Reunion Service so that these files can be dealt with and people will receive a reply to their request within a reasonable and fair time. I'm talking about the bona fide applications. I'm not just talking about the crooked requests. There are many more people who mean well and who have to wait a long time. I hope there will be a solution to this. I'll keep knocking on this nail. Mr President, it is already late, but this will be on the table again next time. A solution must be found for the Access and Accommodation Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u136	Thank you, Mr Francken. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u137	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kathleen Depoorter, Peter De Roover, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Valerie Van Peel. The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this bill. (647/9) The Committee on External Relations proposes that this proposal be rejected. (647/9) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. I do not see Mrs de Laveleye, rapporteur, in the Chamber. I shall, however, give the floor to the main applicant of the proposal, Mrs Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u138	Mr President, I will briefly explain the legislative proposal myself. It concerns the introduction of the integrity charter among actors in development cooperation. I am sure that this bill will receive particular attention. It is a question of abuse of power in the form of sexual cross-border behaviour. I am sure that everyone here in the hemisphere agrees that this is unacceptable. It is unacceptable in this society, but it is also unacceptable when we talk about vulnerable people in the South. Unfortunately, development cooperation is not spared from such facts. We've all been through the scandals around a number of major organizations. When we look back at the debates here about victims of sexual abuse, we know that even in a society with a lot of framework, where victims can go for help, the taboo is very large. Victims sometimes take years to get effective help there. Then how can we live in the situation of a girl or boy in the South who experiences sexual cross-border behavior in the context of abuse of power, in the context of someone whose life depends on his or her family! That is why we are bringing this bill back to plenary after the discussion in committee. What do we really want to do now? We propose a central hotline where the victims can report in complete neutrality and security. We want to raise the integrity charter to the national standard for all actors in development cooperation. We are talking about institutional organisations, we are talking about private actors, we are talking about civil society organisations. If infringements are reported, the suspension or removal of subsidies may be carried out in accordance with the seriousness of the infringements. This bill will also work on a progress report, which will enable Parliament to carry out its monitoring role in terms of the resources of development cooperation and thus increase the acceptance of development cooperation. In committee, we discussed this proposal in detail and there were some legal and technical amendments which need to be put to the vote. We ask the House to allow the bill to be brought back to committee. There's been a vote. There's been some mistakes. We have been asked to proceed to the vote again, but that was not possible under the Rules of Procedure. We would now like to go back to work on that text in the Foreign Affairs Committee, vote on the amendments, and then return to the plenary session with a text supported by the Foreign Affairs Committee, and then vote on it on the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u139	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u140	On 18 June 2020, I requested the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments I had received on the bill (Ms Özlem Özen, Ludivine Dedonder and Sophie Thémont, Mr Patrick Prévot and Mrs Evita Willaert and Julie Chanson) improving the situation of workers in the cultural sector, Nos. 1154/1 to 13. On 18 June 2020, I asked the Council of State for an opinion on the amendments I had received to the bill (Mrs Özlem Özen, Mrs Ludivine Dedonder and Mr Sophie Thémont, Mr Patrick Prévot and Mrs Evita Willaert and Mrs Julie Chanson) to improve the situation of workers in the cultural sector, No. 1154/1 to 13 I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. That is the decision we took at the Conference of Presidents on the proposal on the cultural sector. We have taken the decision to put that at the plenary session next week or in the week of 9 July and to have the committee meet in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u141	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents and at the request of the authors, I propose that the following proposal be referred to the National Defence Committee: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Georges Dallemagne and Nabil Boukili and Sophie Rohonyi) on the protection of civilians against the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact radius in populated areas, No. 1222/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents and at the request of the proposers, I propose that you refer the following legislative proposal to the Defence Committee: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Samuel Cogolati, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Nabil Boukili and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi) on the protection of civilians against the use of explosive weapons with a wide range in populated areas, No. 1222/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on External Relations. This bill was previously sent to the Committee on External Relations. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u142	By e-mail of 25 June 2020, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Servais Verherstraeten, Benoît Piedboeuf, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Peter De Roover and François De Smedt tabled a motion on a request to set up a special commission to examine the management of the VOCID-19 epidemic. By e-mail dated 25 June 2020, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mr Peter De Roover and Mr François De Smedt tabled a motion asking for a special committee to be set up to investigate the COVID-19 epidemic. The motion is in order. The motion is admissible. Before going on to the substance of the debate, we must agree to the addition of this item to the agenda. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u143	The number of signatures shows that one third of Members support the request to add this item to the agenda. Accordingly, this item is added to the agenda. As a result, this item has been added to the agenda. We shall now begin the discussion on the substance. I propose that you move the motion. I suggest you recite the motion. The motion reads as follows: The Chamber, in accordance with rule 21, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, establishes a special commission to review the management of the VOCID-19 epidemic under the following conditions: MISSION This special commission shall be established as soon as possible and shall be responsible for: - to examine the measures taken at the federal level, in particular since H1N1 influenza1, with regard to the prevention and management of a large-scale health crisis; - to examine what information from international authorities and other countries Belgium had between the appearance of VOCID-19 in December 2019 in China and the first confirmed cases of contamination in our country in early March 2020 and to examine the follow-up to this information; - to examine the decisions and measures taken at the federal level between the announcement in December 2019 of the appearance of VOCID-19 in Wuhan, China, and the first confirmed cases in Belgium at the beginning of March 2020, including measures taken in other European countries; - review crisis preparedness and planning, including the management of strategic stocks of medical equipment and medicines; - examine the coordination and implementation of measures to combat the epidemic, including: (a) the provision and distribution of protective equipment for hospitals, health personnel and front-line workers and other care facilities; (b) The organization of hospital capacity, including the establishment of VOCID units in hospitals and the enhancement of capacity in intensive care and respiratory care; (c) activation of the plan for the distribution of patients between hospitals; (d) Provision of protective equipment for the population, taking into account official recommendations; (e) the choice of the production and distribution channels for the means of protection and the association of the Belgian industry and enterprises, the retail sector and pharmacies in this context; (f) Accessibility and distribution of goods and products needed to combat the pandemic; (g) the availability of tests for suspected contamination of VOCID-19 and the organization of contact tracing; (h) the availability, extension and use of screening capabilities and the evolution of screening policy, particularly vis-à-vis other European countries; (i) relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, the various European and international institutions; (j) The special committee will hold regular consultations and exchanges of information with the committees established within the parliaments of the federated entities and the authorities responsible for assessing or reviewing the management of the crisis of the VOCID-19 in order, if necessary, to coordinate their work with mutual respect for each other's competences, in particular to examine the efficiency of coordination at national level; (k) the association and involvement of clinical laboratories and agreements with the pharmaceutical industry in the field of testing and research; - examine the measures taken in terms of operational support and financial support for hospitals and the consultation with stakeholders in this context; - examine the effects of the crisis of VOCID-19 in the field of non-virus-related care; - to examine the effects of the crisis of VOCID-19 in the field of mental health care; - to examine the chain of communication of the federal authorities on the crisis of the VOCID-19; - to examine how containment and then the various stages of de-consolidation were decided and organised between March and June 2020; - examine how the non-medical aspects of the crisis have been managed: border closure, repatriation of nationals, travel control, etc.; - to assess the role of the Crisis Centre in the tasks assigned to it, in particular in the framework of the Royal Decree of 31 January 2003 establishing the general emergency plan at national level; - to examine how Belgium has reported health data to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, particularly with regard to other European countries, and to make these data accessible to the public; - to formulate recommendations to improve and review the prevention and management of pandemics, both nationally and internationally, and to draw lessons on how public health is organised in Belgium at the institutional level; - to table a report, the conclusions and recommendations of which shall, after a debate in plenary, be put to the vote no later than 12 months after its establishment. COMPOSITION The committee is composed of 17 actual members and as many alternates, appointed by the House of Representatives from among its members, according to the rule of proportional representation of political groups. The other political groups may each appoint a member who will participate, without the right to vote, in the work of the special committee. OPERATION The Commission shall hear the persons and request such documents as it deems necessary. It may call on four experts to prepare, if necessary, a preparatory report on the Commission's tasks within two months of the establishment of the Commission. The Commission shall ensure, in the performance of its tasks, the protection of its sources and the consideration of the strategic interests of the companies or bodies which it may hear. The meetings of the committee shall in principle be public. The Commission alone may, on its own initiative, or at the request of the invited persons, use in camera. The Commission shall lay down all rules of operation which are not provided for in this text, without prejudice to the Rules of the House of Representatives. FUNCTIONING AND STATUS OF THE SPECIAL COMMISSION If the special committee encounters difficulties in carrying out its tasks, its work will be continued at any time by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Without prejudice to the preceding paragraph, when considering the report of the commission, its operation and status shall be assessed. It is examined in this respect to what extent the work can possibly be continued by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The motion reads as follows: In accordance with Rule 21 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall set up a special committee responsible for examining the response to the COVID-19 epidemic, subject to the following conditions: COMMAND The special committee shall be set up as soon as possible and shall be responsible for: - examine the measures taken at the federal level, in particular since the H1N1 flu outbreak, in preparing and tackling a large-scale health crisis; - examine the information provided by international bodies and other countries Belgium between the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus in December 2019 in China and the first findings of infections in our country at the beginning of March 2020, and the way in which this information has been followed up; - examine the decisions and measures taken at the federal level between December 2019 (the first reports of a COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan, China) and early March 2020 (the first confirmed infections in Belgium), also in the light of measures in other European countries; - examine the preparation and planning of crisis management, in particular with regard to the management of strategic stocks of medical equipment and medicinal products, - examine the coordination and implementation of measures to combat the epidemic, in particular as regards: (a) the provision and distribution of protective equipment for hospitals, health professionals and primary actors and other concerns; (b) the organisation of hospital capacity, in particular the establishment of COVID departments in hospitals and the increase of intensive care and respiratory care capacity; (c) activation of the patient distribution plan between hospitals; (d) the provision of protection material to the public, taking into account official recommendations; (e) the choice of channels for the production and distribution of protective equipment, involving Belgian companies and industry, supermarkets and pharmacies; (f) the availability and distribution of the necessary goods and products to combat the pandemic; (g) the availability of tests in case of suspected infection with the COVID-19 virus and the organisation of contact tracing; (h) the availability, extension and use of screening capacity and the evolution of screening policies, including in the light of policies in other European countries; (i) relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries and European and international institutions; (j) the Special Committee will regularly consult and exchange information with committees in the Land Parliaments and bodies evaluating or investigating the management of the COOVID-19 crisis in order to coordinate, where necessary, their work with mutual respect for each other's powers, in particular to examine the efficiency of coordination at national level; (k) the involvement and involvement of clinical laboratories and agreements with the pharmaceutical industry on screening and research. - examine the measures relating to operational guidance and financial support for hospitals and consultations with the actors in this respect; - examine the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on non-COVID-related care; - examine the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on mental health care; - examine the Federal Government's communication chain on the COOVID-19 crisis; - examine the decision-making and organisation of the lockdown and the different phases of the exit strategy between March and June 2020; - examine the way in which non-medical aspects of the crisis were tackled: closing of borders, repatriation of compatriots, control of movements, etc.; - evaluate the role of the Crisis Centre in the context of its tasks, in particular in the light of the Royal Decree of 31 January 2003 establishing the contingency plan for crisis events and situations requiring coordination or management at national level, - the way in which Belgium has reported the health data to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, particularly in the light of the situation in the other European countries, and the way in which Belgium has made that data accessible to the public; - to formulate recommendations for improving and reviewing the prevention and management of pandemics, both at national and international level, and to learn how public health policy in Belgium is institutionally organised; - submit a report, the conclusions and recommendations of which will be put to the vote after a debate in plenary within 12 months of the establishment of the committee. COMPOSITION The committee shall be composed of 17 permanent members and the same number of alternates appointed by the Chamber of Representatives of its members in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of the political groups. The other political groups may each designate one member who participates in the work of the special committee without the right to vote. OPERATION The committee shall hear the persons from whom it considers that they should be heard and shall request the documents it deems necessary. It may call upon four experts to draw up, where appropriate, a preliminary report on the commission's tasks within two months of the Commission's installation. In carrying out its tasks, the Commission shall ensure the protection of its sources, as well as respect for the strategic interests of the undertakings or institutions which it may hear. The meetings of the committee shall in principle be public. Only the committee may decide to meet with closed doors on its own initiative or at the request of the invited persons. The committee shall lay down all rules of operation which are not specified in this text, without prejudice to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. FUNCTIONING AND STATUTE OF THE SPECIAL COMMISSION If the special committee finds it difficult to carry out its tasks, its work will continue at all times by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, the functioning and statute of the committee shall be reviewed in the course of the discussion of the committee report. In this context, it will be examined to what extent the work could possibly be continued by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. As a reminder, only the proposers of the motion and one member per political group can speak. As a reminder, in the debate only the authors and one member per political group may speak. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I must also refer you to the discussion we had yesterday at the Conference of Presidents. You know the tension field. Proposals have also been tabled for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. This proposal provides for the setting up of a special committee. You also know what is going on in the parliaments at the moment, the Brussels-Capital Parliament, the Flemish Parliament, etc. I think that we should take a decision on this in this plenary today. Who is asking for the floor? I shall first give the floor to the principal applicant, Mr Laaouej in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this text before you proposes the establishment of a special committee to examine the management of the VOCID-19 epidemic by Belgium. You will have noticed from the beginning at the end of the text that this special commission can at any time turn into a commission of inquiry if it appears that it is experiencing difficulties. Of course, we can imagine a whole series of situations that we have experienced in other special commissions. This possibility, which provides for quasi-automatism, is well reflected in the text submitted to you and which obviously has to be decided in a special committee. For the rest, I won't be much longer. The aim is, of course, to be able to give a very broad overview of all aspects of the assessment and analysis of this crisis management. It is also planned to work closely with other levels of government through the other committees set up with respect for each other's competences. For the rest, the wording of the various provisions contained in this motion is clearly broad enough to allow for a thorough debate, which, we are sure, will make it possible to clarify everything that we, as parliamentarians, feel should be. We also have a number of lessons to learn from this analysis, so that we can have the information to make recommendations as well. You will have found that this committee provides for a composition of 17 members with a proportional distribution as usual, and also a time limit within which the final report will have to be given, considering that it is certainly desirable to be able to refer to the appointed experts. But I am already anticipating what could be decided when this committee is set up. We believe that it should be done as soon as possible. It will be recalled that, in general, four experts are appointed to attend this type of commission. We will need a preliminary report that will allow us to have a working base. I repeat, and I know that some colleagues may have considered other vehicles, other ways of doing things: this special committee can be transformed into a committee of inquiry at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u145	In the meantime, I have received a number of amendments from Mrs Fonck, which I am having distributed at the moment. Mr De Roover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u146	Mr President, it is rather late, but that is not the argument I would like to raise in order to express my fears. Serious things are unrelated to the clock, but I do hope that we do not have too long discussions here. There are different views on this. I'm not the big believer in one formula or the other. What is very important, however, is that the corona issue gives rise to the most in-depth parliamentary analysis of what has happened, in the first instance with a view to learning from the mistakes. There may be a second moment in the corona crisis, but in the future we may experience totally different pandemics that will also require an accurate response. We have now been able to find the broadest majority in favour of the idea of a special committee. However, what I do think is important is the following. Mr Laaouej has just drawn attention to this. From the moment it appears that the formula of a special committee imposes restrictions which prevent a thorough analysis of everything that has happened, we must indeed scale up to the formula of a committee of inquiry. That is also the commitment of all colleagues, who fully understand the logic of this. That is explicitly stated in the text and for us that is not just a sentence. If it becomes clear that the formula, which in itself is special, hence the name of the special committee, is sufficient, then we can conclude our work within that framework. The question is, in particular, to what extent we will be doing serious work, and that is in fact somewhat separate from the question of what form that committee takes. We believe that around the formula of the special committee the largest group can be gathered, and we want to follow that formula. I call on all colleagues to pay more attention to the content than to the form used. If the most broad consensus can be reached on the form of a special committee, then today is the formula in which we must go along. If we do not do so, then we are particularly in danger of having very long discussions that hinder the launch of research, which cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u147	Mr President, it is indeed very late, but the course of the text before us is much longer than the length of this plenary session. It has been written for some time that Parliament is committed to evaluating the corona crisis and its management. It is also an open secret that we have been debating the best form for some time. Similar debates are also taking place in other parliaments. At the start of the corona crisis, my group has taken a very clear line. We advocated first managing the crisis and joining forces to bring down the curve and then joining forces for a thorough evaluation. I myself said those words at the time of the installation of the current government. Since the government was set up, I think there have only been arguments to make a thorough assessment. That is why my group has been looking for a majority, both publicly and behind the scenes, to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. At our policy level, however, we have a relative tradition of digging out important issues with a committee of inquiry. In my parliamentary experience, although it is not the largest, I have seen that parliamentary research through a committee of inquiry helps to investigate things thoroughly, to expose responsibilities and to learn lessons for the future. The best and most recent example is the committee of inquiry on the attacks you have led, Mr President. There has been thorough work and responsibilities exposed, but there has also been a very constructive way forward. This experience, but also the problem, the thoroughness and the enormous nature of the corona crisis, is the reason why we are still convinced that a parliamentary committee of inquiry is the best way of working. I have found in the contacts before and behind the scenes that there is no majority for this at the moment, and I regret that. I understand those Members who say that a parliamentary committee of inquiry tends mainly to look for responsibilities and culprits. I understand that, but I think that's normal, too. After what happened, the question of responsibility is not a wrong question to ask. In the past it has also been shown that a parliamentary committee of inquiry can be something very constructive, very constructive and very forward-looking. I do not fully understand the arguments put forward. At the same time, I also note that a majority is being gathered to review and examine the matter in a different way and to make recommendations for the future. I would, by the way, like to express my thanks to Mr Laaouej for sticking his neck out and trying to achieve something there. He shouldn't. He is formally a leader of the opposition - there is no majority, but Mr Laaouej is still formally one of the opposition - but he has nevertheless sought a formula which has a parliamentary majority. On behalf of my group, I would still like to make it clear that, as far as we are concerned, the best formula is a committee of inquiry. Texts have been submitted by PVDA-PTB and by us. Those texts will probably be discussed next week. The question we are asking today is whether we are in favour of or against a special committee. My group will stand up for that. I've just been in touch with the services again. It's a vote to sit and get up. At the moment, I tend more towards abstinence, but in a vote one has to vote in favour or against. In all honesty, I cannot vote against a special committee either, because that would mean that there is nothing at the moment and nothing would be totally irresponsible in this crisis. It is therefore with a strong conviction that the committee of inquiry and a strong commitment to a possible special committee that my group will soon rise up, but that is not the end of the debate. A committee of inquiry, the start-up and implementation of the procedures will be discussed. The scoop is quite wide, but it will eventually also be a matter of realising in practice. The text offers an important perspective. As soon as the special committee comes up against its limits, we should not have any more major discussions about the transformation into a parliamentary committee of inquiry. We want to be very clear about this. It would be better to do so now, but if there is any reason to turn the special committee into a committee of inquiry, then we must make that choice immediately. The following is perhaps a little polemical, but I would like to have said it, also in public. We in this House have the tradition, which I do not contest, of respecting the D'Hondt key for the allocation of the Presidency. This means that the Presidency is currently in the hands of the Open Group. I do not want to question that principle, but everyone realizes that there are important responsibilities for the liberal political family. If we respect the D'Hondt key, which I am in favour of - let there be no doubt about it - I want a very clear commitment from the chairman of the special committee to an investigation, evaluation and operation in full independence at the start of the committee. There must be no affinity in the area of political colour and family. I have already said that with regard to a number of colleagues in more closed meetings, but I would also like to say this in the open of this sitting. Yeah, we have to respect the key D'Hondt. If this committee is the next one to be set up, then the Presidency will belong to the Flemish Liberals and Democrats, but important questions have arisen, for example, in the file on masks, on liberal ministers. If a committee is chaired by someone from the Open Vld, then I want a clear commitment that the investigation takes place in complete independence and openness. Mrs. Pas, you're chuckling. The key D'dog is an important appointment in our midst, which I don't want to contest. However, at the present stage I would like to express my concern about this, particularly as it may be that a special committee is chosen rather than a committee of inquiry. That has so far been my presentation in a debate which may have started today, but which has not ended today either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u148	Mr President, when my group first submitted a proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry in March 2020, it had been considered. That wasn't random. That was not a proposal to set up a special committee. I have been a member of the Chamber for 13 years now and have been in various parliamentary committees of inquiry and have also experienced various special committees as a member. One should not be a lawyer to know that between these committees is a heavenly difference. A parliamentary committee of inquiry can make the findings of a judge of inquiry, which is absolutely not the case in a special committee. A special committee is much more voluntary. From the special committees to which I was a member, I can tell you that they excelled in non-bindingness. I am convinced that a majority could have been found for a parliamentary committee of inquiry. If I had reread all the statements made by political groups and parties in the hemisphere alone who have all spoken out in favour of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, that would even have been a very large majority. If, of course, parties are excluded in advance and they are not consulted, it is difficult to find a majority. My suspicion, however, is that the more non-binding option has been chosen consciously. However, a parliamentary committee of inquiry would have been the logic itself. It is the perfect instrument for responding to all the tough statements that everything must be investigated to the bone. There are already a number of parliamentary committees of inquiry in this House, from dioxin chickens to the previous Parliamentary term Kazachgate, Optima Bank, friendly settlement in criminal matters and so on. It cannot therefore be explained that the right approach is not being used from the outset for a crisis of this magnitude. It is a never-seen crisis with ten thousand deaths, many of which were to be avoided. So many families affected, not only by the suffering of sick relatives and friends, but also financial suffering, job losses and so on. As far as these citizens are concerned, we must use all the means available to this House to clarify matters. We have a duty to them. I do not understand the fear of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. In this way, it can be dealt with thoroughly from the outset. Then all you can do is give the signal that you have something to hide. If it were just the form, I could still consider approving the creation of this special committee, because at least there will be another investigation. When I read the order of order motion, that is a good way to make sure that the many mistakes and blunders that have been made are analysed, so that they can never repeat themselves again. However, there is a very essential piece missing from this task, namely the demand for responsibilities. It's not in your extensive, comprehensive assignment, as you put it. So you do not have to worry at all about the D'Hondt system, Mr Calvo. That special committee does not even need a member of the Liberal Ministers to push them out of the wind, because responsibilities are not even required at all. A committee that doesn't do anything about it is an integral part of it. We cannot possibly support that. We need to define these political responsibilities: why so many measures have been taken too late, why there has been so damaging communication, why this crisis has been deliberately minimized. Why does a health minister insist until mid-March that this is just an innocent flu, when the same government registered www.infocoronavirus.be at the end of January? You don't do that for an innocent flu. For us, however, those political leaders must be identified. That is not the case in the commission of this special committee. The Flemish interest will therefore not support it. I repeat: if a parliamentary committee of inquiry cannot be set up for ten thousand deaths in this country, then what is it for, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course there is a difference between a committee of inquiry and a special committee. First of all, politically-symbolical, and then also legal. Some colleagues have already cited historical and less historical examples. I note that the quality of committees does not depend on the type of committee. Some pretend that a parliamentary committee of inquiry has been successful, has gone to the bid, is appropriate, while another committee has nothing to do with it. I must contradict that. I have had special committees here, such as those on sexual abuse, for example those on banks, which were very successful, which did a serious job, which made in-depth recommendations that we have taken into account. I also knew a parliamentary committee of inquiry which was successful, which was also referred to: the last, in relation to the attacks. I also had other consciences, including in previous legislatures, where it was not appropriate, to put it mildly. Before that, I knew where the politician was playing, where a report approved by a committee was thrown into the garbage can. That too has happened. Colleagues, I would say rather: let's get started. This morning I said that the cat's name doesn't matter if she catches mice. Let's get started. The committee can invite anyone it wants, the committee can ask any questions it wants, the committee can request any documents it wants according to the law on public access. If she is keen in her analyses and thus indirectly identifies responsibilities, who will stop her? Where does it say this is out of the question? After all, the committee can make all the recommendations. If some fear that the clause on transformation will only be in the form, then I refer to Optima. That is where we did the transformation at the time when the committee considered that this was appropriate and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start quickly, by which I mean installing the committee and setting up high-level experts who can make time to prepare a preliminary report on the basis of the documents we will collect. The committee can then put its teeth in it in an informed manner. That's our suggestion, let's start and not keep arguing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be explained that, after such a major crisis, no committee of inquiry can be set up in Belgium. It is impossible to explain to the public that after one of the worst crises since the Second World War, a commission of inquiry could not be set up. Have you ever tried to explain this to anyone on the street? There has been a lot of dysfunction and it is obvious that a commission of inquiry must be organised. It's obvious, isn't it? We have set up research committees in Belgium for the Sabena crisis and Optima Bank. You will see that we will work well on that committee. In Belgium, a commission of inquiry was set up into the state of the tunnels in the city of Brussels. But we will not be able to set up a commission of inquiry for one of the worst crises since the Second World War. It's simply inexplicable. I have not yet heard an argument that there should be no committee of inquiry. The only argument I hear is that it doesn't add anything. That doesn't add up. If it's the same thing, why don't you decide to make a commission of inquiry? If it comes down to the same thing, let us just start with a committee of inquiry. So it shows that there is a difference, a difference that the parties who have signed the proposal consider important enough not to set up a committee of inquiry. That is the political reality. I still don't know why, but we'll find out in the next few weeks. Why is there such a blocking now? There is still no argument in the Conference of Presidents or in plenary as to why there should be no committee of inquiry. We have already set up far fewer committees of inquiry, for example for the dioxin crisis. Ten thousand people have died because of COOVID-19, but we are not setting up a committee of inquiry. I will tell you why we need a committee of inquiry: we need to demand the documents. We have the right to receive them. It has already been three times that we are asking Minister De Block to dispose of the contracts that have been signed with the major pharmaceutical companies and the tracing contract. We asked her three times, and she replied negatively, saying, "I don't have to give it." I want a parliamentary instrument that allows us to say - if we agree - to Maggie De Block: "It is not you who decide, but we as parliamentarians! These documents, you give them to us!" That's the difference a commission of inquiry makes. Scientists are telling us this morning that in January, they had already sent messages to Minister De Block asking for a strategic stock. I'm talking about the three renowned scientists working on strategic masks. I want, we want those messages. It is not a matter of choice for the minister: she must pass them on to us. As you know, only a commission of inquiry can demand it. In addition, things are declared under oath in a commission of inquiry. It's not just political ping-pong, designed to surround the public. No, no! When someone doesn't tell the truth, they're punished. That's right, a commission of inquiry. Colleagues, I'm surprised. A month and a half ago, everyone agreed with the idea of setting up a commission of inquiry. At the beginning of April, Georges-Louis Bouchez called for one. Two days ago, he said, "Those who want a commission of inquiry, it's for the political show." That Georges-Louis Boucher talks about "political show", it's obviously already fun. Above all, would that mean that all the other commissions of inquiry that have taken place would be political show? Optima, the dioxin crisis, the attacks, all that would be? What do all these changes of opinion mean? What's the problem? Joachim Coens was on VRT radio: also for a committee of inquiry. But what happened between four weeks ago and today? I don't have the elements. I would rather have a debate with arguments for and against, but we do not have them. We will probably find them on that particular committee. It will probably be a special committee, and we will probably have to go to a committee of inquiry. We will have to find those arguments. We will have to prove in that special committee that the Minister is lying. There have been many major problems, effective. That is a problem in the motion that has been proposed to us, colleagues. You read the contents. It is clear to everyone that the crunching of skills is a disaster in the management of this crisis. What do we say? The committee will clearly remain on federal jurisdiction, so as to respect other parliaments. So everyone is going to talk in their corner, while the problem is precisely how this National Security Council has worked. Flemish minister Wouter Beke didn't even know that he was competent for testing in the residential care centers, as he literally stated in De Standaard: "I didn't know that." I believe that such points should be discussed in a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not understand it, and that is why we will be voting against the creation of a special committee. If it is set up, we will of course cooperate fully in it, because we want the debate to take place. However, I will see you next Tuesday at 10.15 a.m. in the Committee on Health, where our proposal and that of Green Ecolo are on the agenda. The adoption of a special committee today does not prevent us from upgrading it in four days' time. Perhaps you will think about it over the weekend and note that there is something in Hedebouw's arguments, which may lead to a positive vote on Tuesday. Voila, so meet next Tuesday at 10:15 on the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u151	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Laaouej for his initiative to set up the special committee. First of all, I would like to comment on the choice of a special committee or a committee of inquiry. The choice of a committee of inquiry does not depend on the seriousness of the facts, on the show element or on the impact of the subject; one chooses a committee of inquiry if there are indications that there is a need to investigate the truth. So the question is whether those indications exist today. The answer to that question was given in the Flemish Parliament, the answer to that question was given in the Brussels Parliament, the answer to that question will also be given in the Walloon Parliament. The answer to that question at the moment is unisono in all these parliaments, namely that a special committee is enough. However, if there are indications that there is a need for research, we will immediately automatically switch to a committee of inquiry. That is the commitment of the proposers. We are not afraid of that, but we need to be more diligent about the instrument. A good example of this was the famous Chidiev committee. A committee of inquiry was set up immediately and it turned out to be a farce. So we make the choice consciously, but if we collide with someone who doesn't want to testify or documents that we can't find, then we have no problem with choosing a committee of inquiry. In that respect, you have my word, no problem at all. Secondly, on the subject of research, we have said that attention must be paid to the good cooperation between the various committees. I would like to say to all my fellow Members that if there are four committees in the various parliaments in total, there will have to be good cooperation between the chairmen and the offices of those committees. After all, we have collided with the limits of our powers, you have a point. It will be a matter of making recommendations on this, which may be in one direction or another. It would certainly be a good federal cooperation if these committees were to coordinate their operation. That is why the text also makes very explicit reference to the fact that the special committee will regularly consult and exchange information with the committees in the Land Parliaments in order to coordinate work with mutual respect for each other's powers. The mission is important. Let every parliament do its job. The population does not need a show where ministers have to appear three, four, five times in all these different parliaments. Let us make good agreements between the committees and ensure that every minister who has to appear also appears in all transparency. That brings me to the last point that Mr Calvo has said. He says he'll respect the D'Hondt system, but with some reluctance, if I've listened to him properly. He believes there's an appearance of partiality. Mr Calvo, I would prefer you to be clear, rather than being a little cheeky, which I do not like very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the recent past, one of us has properly chaired a committee from the majority, even though party members were the subject of the investigation; I do not need to mention the committee by name. I can assure you that any one of my group who presides over the committee will do so in all objectivity. Anyone, whether it is the minority government or the opposition, will of course be able to exercise the full right to speak and work. It will be. That's what we should do. If this results in certain responsibilities being established, consequences being drawn from them, then so be it. Colleagues of mine have seen me actively on the Chodiev committee. Eventually, that didn't lead to much. I assure you, Mr Gilkinet was one of my witnesses - that as a member, I also questioned members of the majority consistently and harshly until we got the answers. That's the mission of all of us here. Let us try not to let it get bogged down in political games, but to make it a fair and transparent task. I am sure that is what a very large majority of Parliament wants. That is also my commitment and that of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u152	Mr President, I think that beyond the question of words, special committee or committee of inquiry, there is one thing that is certain: that the Members who will compose it, whether special or investigative, will be the same. I do not think – I still trust my colleagues – that they will do the work less well if it is a special committee than if it is a committee of inquiry. We all believe that there are elements that deserve a thorough analysis, both on what has not worked and on what has worked. Things have worked; positive actions have been taken. On the other hand, there are some on which we have questions and we have the feeling that there has not been oil in all the workings, and in particular oil in the workings between the federal state and federated entities. The federated entities have decided to set up special commissions. We're doing the same thing. Of course, we will have to consult and try to understand what happened and what did not work. But if parliamentarians do their job, this special committee will work. And if our interlocutors do not give us satisfaction with the quality of our work, we have planned the automatic transformation into a committee of inquiry. There is absolutely no kind of escape or any kind of concealment or fear. We're gonna do our job. We will designate the best among us to do this work, accompanied by experts; and then we will see what the conclusions will be, whether it works or if it does not work. And if it doesn't work, we'll change the committee's qualification. But I have the feeling that those who do the show now, in relation to this qualification as a commission of inquiry, have already condemned, before we study, those who would be responsible for something. But before condemning someone, we must first know what worked, what didn't work, who is responsible for something. As for the failure to indicate in the very broad spectrum that we have established, what are the responsibilities: we know that this is why we are doing it. There's no need to say. That is why we are setting up this committee: it is to make it clear. We all feel that we are going to do the job seriously. In relation to the chairmanship of the committee, I would ask you to check which people were concerned with previous problems and what the political colour of the committee chairmen was. It's quite upbuilding, and we realize that, despite everything, it has worked in the past, because parliamentarians are serious people and that, all of us, we are going to use the best of us to do this work. We have a responsibility to the citizens and to all those who have been victims, and we intend to assume this responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that my party's preference also goes to a committee of inquiry. I've listened to the colleagues very carefully. Some say: we do not get it explained why we do not choose a committee of inquiry. In all honesty, I can't be explained that we can't even find a political consensus on an assessment of the crisis and even have a debate on it. Our preference is for a committee of inquiry, because we consider it important that an evaluation be carried out. That evaluation must be much wider for us than just the story of the mouth masks. In the meantime, we know we didn't have any supplies. We know we were behind. However, other elements also need to be examined. Think of the test capacity, the communication, the psychic impact of the lockdown. It is important that we learn from this. That is why we want an evaluation. We want to be better prepared for a second wave or a new pandemic. We can only learn lessons from the mistakes made in the past to arm ourselves for the future. We have already discussed this in the Conference of Presidents. We have found that there is no majority in favour of this. We're not going to discuss the form right now. Servais calls it the cat. I said this morning that I don't care what name the child gets, as long as it gets there, as long as we can do that evaluation. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the special committee today. The most important condition is that, when necessary, we switch to a committee of inquiry. The modalities are clear. I've read the order motion correctly. As soon as it is necessary or we are given too little information, we will be the first to ask for the conversion to a committee of inquiry. Others have also given a guarantee today that they will support this question when it is needed. I think that people are particularly interested in the lessons we can draw from this in order to protect ourselves better, and not whether this research will be carried out through a committee of inquiry or a special committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already taken a position on several occasions in favour of a committee of inquiry, such as, in substance, the majority of the parties that are just saying the opposite. A few weeks ago, the peak of the crisis was greater and the number of deaths was much higher every day. At that time, everyone agreed to the establishment of a commission of inquiry. It is unjustifiable today to create something other than a commission of inquiry. Not only is it unjustifiable, but it is very clearly also incomprehensible to citizens. You fired. You've changed your mind. This obviously gives the impression that you want to hide things. This is not how we will be able to restore a minimum of trust to the citizens when they are deeply shaken. You explain to us that this special commission will be able to work under the best possible conditions but it has been weeks since many people here share the same observation as mine. It's been weeks since in the Health Committee, for hours, we ask questions, we repeat them. Ministers choose the questions they want to answer. Clarification is requested on a wide range of documents, on contracts, on information that has been circulated or not. And very often, too often, the answers and documents are missing. Information is not given or is deliberately hidden. In substance, you are proposing that we set up a committee that will do the same work as we have been trying to do for several weeks in the Health Committee, and under the same conditions. Frankly, it's not okay! Not only do citizens find this incomprehensible, but I can tell you that those who find it even more incomprehensible are the caregivers. It's also light on the content. Above all, I would like to highlight two points. The first concerns the type of missions that you are going to entrust to this commission. You're planning an evaluation. You are planning to learn the lessons for the future, but bringing full clarity to these ten thousand deaths and to this serious economic and social crisis means that political responsibilities must also be highlighted, if necessary. Not a word in the content of your text on this subject. Again, it gives the impression that you do not want to address the issue of political responsibilities. The second point concerns the articulation, coordination and ping-pong game that we could deplore week after week between the different levels of power. What you write is very light and very soft and yet it's a real knot. I was still reading in the Flemish press a few days ago, which showed that two thirds of Flemish citizens and two thirds of Flemish citizens want a profound change in the distribution of health competences and no longer want a system with nine health ministers. They are right because this crisis has shown how crucial this is. The content of your text is extremely light on this subject. For the Buizingen accident, and for the attacks of 22 March in Brussels, commissions of inquiry had been set up in a legitimate manner. Here, for a situation that has hit a lot of people, you consider it not worth it. However, ladies and gentlemen, we owe it to the citizens. We owe it to every family that has been affected by the death of a loved one. We owe it to all those who have kept Belgium standing throughout the confinement. We owe it to the caregivers who have invested without counting. We also owe it to all the citizens who, let us recall, have seen for many months their freedoms reduced to the skin of grief. I have tabled amendments to this proposal to allow you to follow what almost all the parties represented here have committed themselves to do today, namely to set up a committee of inquiry. These amendments also clarify the scope of the Commission's mission in order to go further, to draw lessons in a clearer way, and in particular on the aspect of the articulation between the different levels of power. They also allow us to go further on the determination, where appropriate, of political responsibilities. These amendments, Mr President, I have tabled them to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, like your party presidents, parliamentarians in the Committee on Health and all those who have spoken in all directions in the media, we will give ourselves all the means to do so, that you will change your mind today, or perhaps next week in the Committee on Health. Or in any case, that you will agree to have a much clearer, much more transparent vision and approach, without taboos, brakes and restraints. We will do this for all those who have been hit hard by this health crisis, and who may still be affected tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u155	Mr President, I understand that the debate is between a committee of inquiry and a special committee. That's quite normal. The main and strongest argument is probably the signal to the population, which could misunderstand the initiative. I see a pragmatic advantage to start right away with a special commission. It is the formula that meets the widest consensus and it has the advantage of being consistent with the choices made so far by the federated entities and of avoiding a lag where one of the levels of power goes for a commission of inquiry and the others for special commissions. It is only on the condition that at any obstacle, if any unanswered question, if any document is refused, this committee will immediately become a committee of inquiry that we agree with and support the proposal. Those who cast doubts mark a point. The ping-pong must be raised between the different levels of power. Once the different levels of power have done the job, someone will have to dare learn the lessons from the ping-pong game. I do not completely blame the Belgian institutional lasagna but it was quite obvious that everyone and nobody was responsible for the masks, everyone and nobody was responsible for the testing, everyone and nobody was responsible for the tracing. A level of power is going to have to put his hands in the mess on that aspect. If it is not the federal government, I do not see who is in a position to do so. If the structure of the committee that we are going to set up is not enough, it will be a sufficient argument to transform it into a committee of inquiry if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u156	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u157	• 1 – Catherine Fonck cs
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u158	Mrs Fonck has sent me amendments, asking that the words "special committee" be systematically replaced by the words "committee of inquiry". I would like to make it clear that we are working on a motion, on the basis of rule 21. The right of inquiry, on the other hand, derives from the Constitution and from a law passed in this regard. Therefore, we cannot set up a committee of inquiry with reference to Article 21. I would like to emphasise that. I don't want to be a pain in the ass. The other amendments are not a problem for me, but if you allow the Chamber to vote and ask you to simply replace'special committee' with 'parliamentary committee of inquiry' each time, then I tell you that another initiative is needed for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which is not based on Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure. Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure allows the Chamber to set up a special committee. No. 1 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 1 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. In the title, replace the words "Special Committee" with the words "Inquiry Committee". In the title the words "special committee" shall be replaced by the word "committee of inquiry." No. 2 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 2 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Delete the words "In accordance with the requirements of article 21, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure". In the first introductory sentence, the words "in accordance with Article 21 (2) of the Rules of Procedure' shall be replaced by the words "in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure'. No. 3 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 3 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. In the first introductory sentence, replace the words "special committee" with the words "commission of inquiry". In the first introductory sentence, replace the words "special committee" by the word "committee of inquiry." No. 4 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 4 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. In the introductory sentence on the commission's mission, replace the words "special committee" with the words "investigation committee". In the introductory sentence relating to the commission's mandate, replace the words "special committee" by the word "investigative committee." No. 5 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 5 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. In item (j), replace the words "special committee" with the words "inquiry committee". Under the heading "Order', point (j), replace the words "special committee' by the word "investigation committee'. No. 6 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 6 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. In the second sentence, replace the words "special committee" with "commission of inquiry". Under the heading 'Composition', second sentence, replace the words'special committee' by the word 'Committee of Inquiry'. No. 7 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 7 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Delete the title and sentences relating to the "function and status of the special commission". Leaving aside the title and sentences relating to the "working and the statute of the Special Committee." Justification of Amendments 1 to 7 Accountability Amendments 1 to 7 It is essential that all the light be shed on the management of the crisis related to VOCID-19. For this to happen, the commission set up at the federal level must have all the necessary resources to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. It is therefore necessary to set up a commission of inquiry and not a special commission. As regards a commission of inquiry, it is governed by the provisions of the Law of 3 May 1880 on Parliamentary Investigations. Motion for the establishment of a special commission to examine the management of the VOCID-19 epidemic by Belgium. It is essential to provide full clarity about the management of the COOVID-19 crisis. To this end, the committee set up at federal level must have all the means necessary to enable it to carry out the tasks assigned to it. A committee of inquiry must therefore be set up and not a special committee. A committee of inquiry is governed by the provisions of the law of 3 May 1880 on parliamentary inquiry. Motion to set up a special committee responsible for investigating Belgium's approach to the COOVID-19 epidemic. No. 8 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 8 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Replace the words "Consideration of the coordination and implementation of measures to combat the epidemic" with the words "Consideration of the implementation of measures to combat the epidemic, coordination and cooperation among institutions under federal authority, as well as cooperation between different levels of government,". The words 'investigate the coordination and implementation of measures to combat the epidemic' shall be replaced by the words 'investigate the implementation of measures to combat the epidemic, the coordination and cooperation between the institutions of the federal government and cooperation between the various levels of policy'. Justification Verantwoording It is necessary for the Commission to examine the question of the articulation between the various institutions under federal authority (Sciensano, SPF Public Health, AFMPS, Army,...) and - and this is essential - cooperation between the different levels of authority. The Committee should examine the relations between the various institutions under the federal government (Sciensano, FPS Public Health, FAGG, Defence,...) and............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No. 9 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. Number 9 by Catherine Fonck and Georges Dallemagne. In the missions, add a indent: "To formulate, where appropriate, its observations and recommendations on possible political responsibilities". To supplement the mandate by a indent, which reads: "- to formulate, where appropriate, its comments and recommendations on possible political responsibilities." Justification Verantwoording It is essential that all the light be shed on the management of the crisis related to VOCID-19. For this to happen, the commission set up at the federal level must be able to make its observations and recommendations on possible political responsibilities. It is important to provide full clarity about the management of the COVID-19 crisis. To this end, the committee set up at federal level should be able to formulate its comments and recommendations on possible political responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u159	Yes, Mr President, but if you read the amendments correctly, you will find that I do not refer to Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure. The Act of 3 May 1880, pursuant to article 56 of the Constitution, regulates parliamentary commissions of inquiry. I therefore do not see what is the text that prohibits me from acting in the way I have chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u160	Madam, your amendments are drawn up on the basis of the text proposed by Mr Laaouej. The latter's proposal is based on Article 21 - and that is correct. I repeat, changing the terms is not enough for the work of this committee to be part of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u161	Mr President, let us be very clear! I have obviously deleted the reference to Article 21. The proposal we are discussing is introduced, I imagine, by a motion to change the agenda. We're discussing the content...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u162	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u163	It is in accordance with Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u164	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u165	Today we are discussing a text on the establishment of a committee. I am, of course, amending the references, since I am not relying on Article 21. Nothing prevents us, by referring to the Constitution and the 1880 law, from setting up another type of commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u166	It's not a point of order. I stop the discussion because it is my duty as president to say what may not be right. It was therefore not a point of order that was introduced, but a motion calling for the establishment of a special commission. I read: "The Chamber, in accordance with Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, establishes a special committee, etc." So, if we are under Article 21, it is not enough - and I say it for the third time - to replace "special committee" with "committee of inquiry" to have a committee of inquiry. Anyway, I'm not going to discuss admissibility. We will vote. In order to do so, I have circulated the amendments. In any case, that is a point I wanted to make. I would like to make a second comment. I've been on seven special committees of inquiry. I can only say that much depends on the dynamics that a certain committee develops at some point. The biggest problem I experienced in the operation of some committees in the past was the loyalty to the government majority, which could also translate into the various committees. That problem occasionally arose and we had to be able to overcome it. For the time being, however, we are living in a time when there is no majority. After all, there are no coalitions. If these 17 people want to do their work seriously, they will have to demonstrate their independence as a Member of Parliament and as a member of the special committee. That's very important. I have seen certain committees dysfunction, because at certain times government parties were asked to do so or to do so. I don't reveal secrets with that, everyone knows that, but that situation doesn't exist right now. That's the incredible advantage of being able to work. Finally, it is very important that the possibility of scaling up is expressly included in this special committee. From all that I have heard today, I have understood that, with the slightest hesitation, with the slightest blocking, with the least difficulty one would experience in getting certain documents or hearing certain persons, there is the possibility of immediately scaling up to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole text will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the text will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u167	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the effective members of the Governing Council of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u168	The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1092/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (1092/1)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been able to vote in the meantime. If you will allow it, we can proceed to the counting of the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u170	The Chamber must appoint two new advisers to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The Chamber should therefore appoint two new advisers to the French Chamber of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u171	The Sub-Committee on Court of Auditors heard all the candidates on 17 June 2020. Benoît Piedboeuf, Chairman of the Sub-Committee, reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 24 June 2020. The Sub-Committee "Rekenhof' heard all candidates on 17 June 2020. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Chair of the Subcommittee, reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020, I propose that you appoint the two advisers at the plenary meeting on 9 July 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020, I propose that the two Councils be appointed at the plenary session of 9 July 2020. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Members can vote from Friday 3 July 2020 until Thursday 9 July 2020 at 2 p.m. Their ballot papers and parliamentary document No. 1388/1 are available to the General Secretariat. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: Members can vote from Friday 3 July 2020 until Thursday 9 July 2020 at 2 p.m. Their ballots and the parliamentary document No. 1388/1 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u172	The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 9 July 2020. The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 9 July 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u173	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 11 June 2020, the presentation of the Council of Ministers and the curriculum vitae of the candidates, who are directly nominated by the Chamber, were forwarded to the political groups. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 11 June 2020, the nomination of the Council of Ministers and the CVs of candidates directly appointed by the Chamber were delivered to the political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u174	In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Members may vote from Friday 26 June 2020 until Thursday 2 July 2020 at 2 p.m. Their ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 1387/1 are available to them in the General Secretariat. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: Members can vote from Friday 26 June 2020 until Thursday 2 July 2020 at 14 a.m. Their ballot and the parliamentary document No. 1387/1 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u175	The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 2 July 2020. The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday, 2 July 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u176	By letter dated 18 May 2020, Alexandra Jaspar, Director of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority, announced that one of the members, Ms Joëlle Jouret, wished to resign. By letter dated 18 May 2020, Ms Alexandra Jaspar, director of the Data Protection Authority Knowledge Centre, announced that one of the members, Ms Joëlle Jouret, wished to resign.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u177	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Monitor an appeal to French candidates for the term of membership of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020, I propose that a call be made to French-speaking female candidates for the mandate of member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u178	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u179	Mrs Fonck, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1356/1 amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to exclude in the determination of the net amount of resources temporary unemployment benefits received in the context of the crisis of the VOCID-19 by workers employed in approved adapted work enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u180	Mr President, this is the particular situation of families with a dependent disabled child. Children, even adults, who work in an ETA, for example, and who receive a salary, remain tax dependent on their parents. With the benefit of temporary unemployment benefits, a tax system is required but normally does not apply in situations of paid work. This poses a major problem for these families in terms of the deduction for dependent disabled children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u181	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u182	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the proposal for a law introducing an automatic mechanism for adjusting the amount of pensions to changes in wages, No 1360/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u183	Mr President, on the occasion of this crisis with coronavirus, we were able to see that some pensions were not taking off because inflation was at the lowest level. At the same time, on a whole series of products that are not part of the household basket, we had to find that there was a change in the cost of living. In essence, the aim is to be able to have a coherent approach between wage developments and changes in the main wage replacement income of the pension. Basically, any employee will one day be the other pensioner. That, Mr. President, is the justification for the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u184	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u185	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1361/1 to temporarily suspend the effect of the clauses sanctioning consumers' unpaid deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u186	Mr President, you will recall that our assembly accepted the urgency of a bill to suspend the reimbursement of consumer credits. Indeed, a whole range of our fellow citizens, especially the temporary unemployed, were no longer able to repay their consumer credit. In fact, the law was passed by this Parliament. Similarly, there are also so-called clauses that sanction unpaid payments. This means that in the same context of the crisis of the coronavirus where there is a loss of income for many of our fellow citizens, it appears that penalties apply as soon as someone fails to pay an invoice. I am asking for urgency as we were able to get it for consumer credit. It is really the same logic that governs both texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u187	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u188	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1362/1 concerning the granting of a payment plan for a period of up to six months or more for consumers who have suffered a loss of income as a result of the economic consequences of the coronavirus pandemic VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u189	Mr President, here, even more so than in the previous text, there is an inextricable link with the proposed consumer credit law, which had received the urgency. We're really in the same logic. I would even say that there is an obvious proximity to the content of the text. I would therefore hardly understand that the colleagues who voted urgently for the text on consumer credits do not vote urgently for this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u190	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u191	Mr Gilkinet, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1365/1 amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing a maternity insurance scheme for self-employed persons and assisting spouses, with a view to taking into account the first day of effective cessation of incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u192	Mr President, this is kind of a restorative law. The elimination of the waiting day for self-employed workers was recently adopted. But there is a form of legal vacuum when the sick self-employed person does not go directly to the doctor because he underestimates the severity of the disease. There is no possibility, in the present state of the law, of regularizing its situation a posteriori. This proposal is co-signed by several groups and I hope that there will be a consensus and that we can deal with it quickly. It is quite short but particularly useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u193	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u194	Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the urgency of the bill No. 1373/1 amending the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration with a view to increasing the federal rate of reimbursement of living wages following the COOVID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u195	Mr President, the title speaks for itself. During the corona crisis, many people have been in financial difficulties, which means that they have to rely more quickly on the OMCW. We therefore hope that the proposal, which provides for an increase in the federal rate of reimbursement of living wages, can be discussed quickly in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u196	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u197	Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the urgency of the bill No. 1374/1 amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment for the purpose of granting temporary unemployment benefits to workers in the artistic sector during the period of the COVID-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u198	Mr President, the proposal deals with a solution for the artistic sector. Last week we missed an opportunity to adopt a proposal that will improve it. The debate has now been delayed by the opinions requested. The problem remains pressing. That's why we're asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u199	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u200	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 1375/1 on the promotion of electronic payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u201	Mr President, in the light of the COOVID-19 crisis, electronic payments have been made in order to prevent contamination, which is why the motion for a resolution must be dealt with in a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u202	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u203	Mrs Kitir, you are asking for urgent procedure for the legislative proposal No. 1378/1 by Mr Crombez, Mr Bertels and Mr Vandenbroucke amending the Royal Decree of 14 April 2020 granting a State guarantee for certain credits in the fight against the effects of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u204	Mr President, the current period is 12 months for companies to make use of the State guarantee. That maturity is far too short. We would like to extend it to 36 months. The banking sector also agrees with this and Minister De Croo has also stated that he agrees. That is why we are asking for the period of 12 months to be extended to 36 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u205	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u206	Mr Van Quickenborne, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1382/1 amending the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours for trade, crafts and services as regards the temporary suspension of the weekly rest day due to the corona crisis
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u207	Mr President, the proposal is intended to temporarily suspend the mandatory weekly rest day. During the COOVID period, some shopkeepers want flexibility and the mandatory weekly rest day may be a hindrance. Hence the request for temporary suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u208	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request. The Registrar informs me that according to the census 75 members support the request for urgency. In that case, it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u209	Mr President, some Members do not have a vote. How is Mr Dedecker's vote counted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u210	Mr Dedecker is an independent Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u211	Yeah, but he's entitled to a vote, right? He's not represented right now. For the N-VA Group, you only have 24 members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u212	We cannot count someone who is not present on the basis of what we think about his voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u213	Mr President, that means that you have a total of only 149 Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u214	You may request a name vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u215	Mr President, that is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u216	Mr Van Quickenborne, this has always been the case. We won't change that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u217	I'm asking because the result is so close now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u218	If you ask for a name vote, I will put the request for urgency to the vote next time. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u219	What do you mean, next time? It's urgent. (Protests from Mrs Kitir) Mrs Kitir, you do not want a name vote today, because you are against urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u220	Mr Van Quickenborne, you can always ask for a name vote. However, we are now working according to an agreement agreed at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u221	Mr President, the procedure means that two votes do not count in the urgent requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u222	We usually vote on urgent requests to sit down and stand up. What we are doing now is a sort of approach to sitting and getting up. In the Conference of Presidents we made an agreement on this. In every plenary session, we could have landed in that way. Mr Kir, also independent, is neither present nor included.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u223	Mr President, Mr Kir is going to vote (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u224	Mr Van Quickenborne, I suggest that you re-examine the working methods of the next Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u225	Mr Hedebouw, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 1383/1 concerning the public takeover of Brussels Airlines and Brussels Airport Company.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u226	When we see everything that's going on in the aeronautics sector, I think it's going to be connected to another law by Théo Francken that I think has already received the urgency...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u227	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u228	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions on 17 June 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 17 June 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 20/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Nadia Moscufo; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Ms. Nawal Farih. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 20/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Nadia Moscufo; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mrs Nawal Farih. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u229	Yes 63 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u230	(Ms Ozem Özlem voted as her group did for all the votes) (Ms Kattrin Jadin voted as her group did for all the votes)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 66 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1227/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1227/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u232	Vote on amendment No 67 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a recital R(n). (1298/9) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert recital R (n). (1298/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 69 by Kris Verduyckt at the request 1. (1298/9) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Kris Verduyckt on request 1. (1298/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 44 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 70 by Kris Verduyckt at the request 7. (1298/9) Vote on Amendment No 70 from Kris Verduyckt on request 7. (1298/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 73 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No 71 by Kris Verduyckt to insert a request 7/1(n). (1298/9) Vote on Amendment No 71 of Kris Verduyckt inserting a request 7/1(n). (1298/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the Is this vote also affected by the previous vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u233	Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on amendment No 68 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a request 19(n). (1298/9) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Annick Ponthier cs inserting a request 19(n). (1298/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u234	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. (1298/10) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. (1298/10) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u235	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Kattrin Jadin cs to delete Recital X. (1292/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Kattrin Jadin cs to omit recital X. (1292/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 93 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u236	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Kattrin Jadin cs to delete Recital Y. (1292/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Kattrin Jadin cs to omit recital Y. (1292/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 88 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u237	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. (1292/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. (1292/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u238	Vote on amendment No. 18 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a recital L(n). (1071/7) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a recital L(n). (1071/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Annick Ponthier cs on request 1. (1071/7) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Annick Ponthier cs on request 1. (1071/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u239	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Annick Ponthier cs on request 3. (1071/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 from Annick Ponthier cs on request 3. (1071/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u240	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 21 by Wouter De Vriendt cs at the request 4. (1071/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Wouter De Vriendt cs on request 4. (1071/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 99 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u241	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. (1071/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. (1071/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u242	Vote on Amendment No 29 by Marco Van Hees to Article 2. (1300/8) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Marco Van Hees on Article 2. (1300/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[29]] Yes No. [[113]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (1300/8) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (1300/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Theo Francken to Article 2. (1300/8) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Theo Francken on Article 2. (1300/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Theo Francken to Article 2. (1300/8) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Theo Francken to Article 2. (1300/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u243	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Theo Francken to Article 2. (1300/8) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Theo Francken on Article 2. (1300/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u244	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Marco Van Hees to Article 2. (1300/8) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Marco Van Hees on Article 2. (1300/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[12]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. The annexed tables were adopted. The attached tables have been adopted. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 22/1(n). (1300/8) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 22/1(n). (1300/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u245	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u246	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 126 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1300/9) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1300/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u247	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u248	Yes 59 Yes Non 75 No. Abstensions 9 Abstentions Total 143 Total Consequently, the House does not adopt the rejection proposal. We will discuss the proposal at a later stage. Consequently, the Court does not accept the rejection proposal. We will discuss the proposal later. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Colleagues, the bill No. 647 is therefore sent back to the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u249	Mr President, I understood that the vote on the motion would take place and stand up. That was also announced. A number of amendments were also rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u250	I did not declare the amendments inadmissible. I have commented on the amendments, but I have had them distributed. There are not only amendments on which I have pointed out. There are also other amendments concerning coordination and political leaders. Mrs Fonck's amendments should therefore be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u251	Although I share Mr Fonck's point of view, namely that of a committee of inquiry, I did agree with your remark that this should be regulated by law. It can't be done by means of a motion. And why not sit down and get up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u252	I have to vote on the amendments in no way. I shall then have to vote on the proposal in no way. It seems strange to me to sit and stand up and vote on the proposal itself and to vote on the amendments by name. The vote on sitting and getting up was only in the procedure for changing the agenda. Then we need a proposal from the President or 50 Members to support the proposal. I'll be able to determine the 50 by sitting and getting up. There must be a nominating vote here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u253	I thought a motion was either rejected or approved. I didn't think a motion could be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u254	It's a motion we added to the agenda. It is not possible to amend an order motion. However, we are not in the regime of order. Apparently, that is a misconception among some of my colleagues. We are in the regime of Article 21. I had it checked against precedents. The vote will take place first on the procedure, possibly in order to get it on the agenda. As soon as it is on the agenda, it can be amended and there will be nominating votes on those amendments and the whole. Mr Calvo, you have the floor for an explanation of vote on Amendment No 2. 1 by Mrs. Fonck. The purpose of this amendment is to replace the word "commission spéciale" with "commission d'survey."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u255	Mr President, since I agree that this should be regulated by law, my group will vote against the amendment, although we are in favour of a committee of inquiry. I just wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u256	We shall now proceed to the vote. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck cs. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u257	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u258	Then we shall vote on the next amendment, because I cannot repeat the vote. Amendment No. Mrs Fonck's intention is to replace "special committee" by "research committee." Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck cs. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck cs. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u259	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck cs. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u260	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck cs. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u261	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck cs. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u262	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck cs. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u263	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Amendment No Mrs Fonck's 8th report deals with coordination. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck cs. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck cs. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck cs. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u264	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u265	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[109]] Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the text. Consequently, the Court adopts the text. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u266	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. I'm hoping for an early closing hour next week. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u267	There is a problem with the secret ballot on the members of the governing board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u268	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip048x.u269	In the end, I find that I have one candidate short. A candidate is missing on the French-speaking side. I propose that I put the item on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents, with the result in detail of the vote. We can then decide together what we will do with it. Is everyone okay with that? (Applause) Thank you. Have a good night. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 2 July 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 2, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
