ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u1	Welcome to our committee, Madam Secretary of State. It's the first time you've been here. I'll ask you a lot of questions right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to talk to you about the law of 4 April 2019, which implements the right to be forgotten in insurance law. That law was introduced for former cancer patients who want to take out a balance of debt insurance or a professional credit. That law provides for the King to draw up a reference schedule in which, in addition to cancer diseases, chronic diseases can be listed, for which insurance undertakings may not ask for additional premiums or refuse insurance. The reference roster can be drawn up on a proposal from the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre and after advice from the Succession Bureau for Tariffing. The Royal Decree of 26 May 2019 establishing the reference grid lists a number of chronic diseases in Annex n2. These include HIV virus infections, viral hepatitis C, cystic fibrosis. During the preparation of the legislative amendment, the then responsible minister, Mr Kris Peeters, announced that the right to be forgotten would be introduced for medical conditions that are perfectly controlled, including certain types of diabetes. Until now, however, no type of diabetes has been included in that reference schedule. Madam Secretary of State, why was no type of diabetes included in the reference schedule of chronic diseases? Is there a specific medical reason for this? Has the Federal Health Knowledge Centre provided advice on the reference grid, including diabetes? And do you plan to extend the reference grid to more chronic diseases, such as diabetes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u3	Mr de Caluwe, thank you for the question, which is indeed very important for chronic patients. That right really makes a difference for their lives. The current reference grid is directly inspired by the French AERAS Convention, in which, as far as I know, the relevant pathology is not included. No advice was requested on the first reference schedule from the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care. A proposal from the Federal Health Knowledge Centre and an opinion from the Succession Bureau for Tariffing are required for the adaptation of that reference grid. The Federal Health Knowledge Centre evaluates the reference schedule every two years on the basis of medical progress and available scientific data on the diseases. The adjustment proposal shall be forwarded to the Tariffing Follow-up Office. Only after I have received the proposal of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre and the advice of the Succession Bureau for Tariffing can I, together with my fellow Minister responsible for Insurance, ensure that the reference schedule is adjusted for certain chronic diseases. The reference schedule dates from 2019 and the evaluation is not expected until the second half of 2021. As a result of your question, my cabinet has made contact with the cabinet of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne. The government agreement includes a specific provision on the right to be forgotten, namely that the government takes measures to improve the right to be forgotten, in insurance law. It shall be examined whether and under what conditions the list of chronic diseases can be supplemented. The government will examine how the right to be forgotten can be extended to other health insurances. So, together with Mr Dermagne, I would like to see whether we can actually extend that list. It is not logical and unfair that anyone who has or has had a medical condition that is perfectly controlled has no right to be forgotten and, for example, can be refused insurance. So we're working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your hopeful answer. With a lot of chronic diseases, also certain diseases for which the risk of relapse is very limited after a number of years, people who follow strict treatment can actually live perfectly healthy lives. I also speak from my own experience, since my sister has type 1 diabetes, the so-called congenital diabetes. Her values are perfectly regulated and she lives very healthy, yet it is difficult for her and in some cases even impossible to take insurance. I hope that a solution can be found for diabetic patients and for many other chronic patients in similar situations. I am therefore very grateful that you are watching this together with your colleague. I hope that all those patients will soon be able to take out insurance that will not take into account their chronic illness. I will see if I can also take legislative initiatives in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, welcome to our committee. I hope that we will have the opportunity to do an excellent job together, which I have no doubt about. For several months now, testing balloons to make savings pay are increasing in our country. Private bank Puilaetco Dewaay broke a taboo about a year ago. Then we heard some statements from Febelfin's boss. Now it is the Triodos bank that announces that the rate of all its savings accounts will be reduced to zero, as of December 7. The same dynamics are in progress in other countries, particularly in Germany and Switzerland. To justify this, banks indicate that they operate in a highly competitive environment and that their profit margins are planed in the light of low interest rates. However, banks continue to make very good profits: in Belgium, dividends from the parent company amounted to 4.16 billion only for the four largest Belgian banks. As for Triodos, its profit increased to EUR 38.8 million in 2019 (an increase of 4.1 million compared to 2018). The trend is therefore still positive. In theory, savings accounts in Belgium generate a minimum of interest: the law sets the minimum legal amount at 0.11% (0.01% basic and 0.1% loyalty premium). But this minimum applies only to regulated accounts (tax-free below a certain threshold) and not to unregulated accounts (interest is taxed at 30%). For Test-Achats, who denounced Triodos's manoeuvre, it is therefore sufficient for a simple pass-through to allow a bank to free itself from the minimum interest rates imposed by law. Madam Secretary of State, have you considered this problem? Have you contacted Triodos for clarification? Have you worked with the Minister of Finance on this? Are you going to initiate measures to ensure a minimum return for savers and thus protect their purchasing power?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u6	Mr Lacroix, indeed, Belgium is experiencing a system of regulated savings accounts which generates a minimum rate defined by royal decree and which allows holders to benefit from a tax deduction. On the other hand, there is no obligation on banks to offer this product, even if most do. Moreover, not all banks in Belgium offer this product. However, it is generally a flagship product in the supply of large banks. There are initiatives, isolated for the moment, from small banks such as Triodos to no longer offer a regulated savings account in view of the impact of the low rates observed for some time. I intend to deal with this issue with the Minister of Finance and with Febelfin in order to prevent such isolated initiatives from having a snowball effect at the moment. I have not yet had direct contact with Triodos, but in the future we will certainly follow this issue very closely and contact all stakeholders in the sector to ensure that the rights of consumers and savers are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Indeed, there is no legal obligation to offer a regulated account with a minimum return. You made it clear. But in the past, the use of unregulated accounts involved much fewer accounts and banks specialized in more niches reserved for much richer customers. Therefore, there were no difficulties in this regard. Here, we see that it is generalist banks, like Triodos, that ultimately do something other than what was usual and that, to the detriment of consumers. I am of course counting on you to act effectively to protect the savings of small people, of those who place a little money on their savings account from time to time, either to ensure a proper retirement, or to allow a life to be saved from worries and problems, as long as it is still possible at the time we are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u8	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this is a major issue, which has come back several times to the table of this committee. Again, Test-Achats, which closely follows this situation since the beginning of the pandemic, published an analysis according to which the price in Belgium of disposable oral masks, known as surgical masks, has declined since June. However, it remains much higher than in neighbouring countries. On 7 October, the average price of a disposable mask in Belgium was about 75 cents of euros. Prices offered in large online pharmacies fluctuated from 50 cents to 1.20 euro per coin and, in large areas, from 54 cents to 70 cents of euro per coin. In comparison, prices are much lower abroad. In Portugal, the price of the same disposable mask as that sold in Belgium is 40 euro cents, 30 cents in Denmark, 20 or even 10 cents in France. I am talking about the same masks, with the same European certification and the same level of protection. Madam Secretary of State, how do you explain that the Belgian consumer continues to pay more for his disposable masks? How do you react to the Test-Achats survey, according to which 82% of Belgian families support the requirement of a maximum price for oral masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u9	Mr Lacroix, thank you for your question. I have a small problem: the answer was written in Dutch. We didn't have time to translate it. I'll send you the translation as soon as I have it. I will now give my answer in Dutch. You will receive the answer in French very soon. Based on the data recorded until 30 September 2020 at the two largest online Pharmacies, Newpharma and Farmaline, and the three largest retailers, Carrefour, Delhaize and Colruyt, the services of the FPS Economy, SME, Middle Class and Energy report to me that disposable mouth masks are also available at prices just below 50 cents each. Those prices are also lower than the prices applied in June 2020. In France, the price of such masks is legally limited to a maximum of 95 cents each. That maximum price is significantly higher than the market price in that country. Is it desirable to regulate the price of mouth masks? Of course, it should also be taken into account that the supply of both priority customers, such as care staff, and consumers, is ensured. For this reason, there is no need to impose a maximum price in the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u10	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. If your answer clarifies some things, I'm only half satisfied with it. I won't hide it from you. Indeed, let us look at the proportion of the budget of a household with several children and adolescents! From the moment the pandemic explodes again in our country and when the wearing of the mask is recommended, if not mandatory, in many cities and in many closed places, it seems to me that an action aimed at setting a maximum price for masks, so as to lower the price, at least its medium-term trend, as is the case abroad, would still improve the purchasing power of households. When you buy a box of 50 masks, in pharmacy or elsewhere, it still represents a certain sum and the wearing of the surgical mask lasts up to four hours. So you have to use at least two a day. I have no doubt that you will still be attentive to developments in this area, and I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, first and foremost, congratulations on your appointment. I wish you every success in your new position. Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I shall be quite brief on the development of this question, which deals with a subject that is often discussed. Digitalisation in the banking sector is a trend that began many years ago and has met with some success with bank customers for the comfort and ease offered. But the question of digital discrimination, which is also denounced by Test Achats, is of course raised, in particular with regard to tariffs applied to normal banking operations, such as transfers, checking the balance, residences, account extracts, deposits, etc. We are talking about 6 or 7 euros per operation; it is a considerable cost for people with low or medium incomes. Hence this recurring debate on the digital divide. The consumer organisation adds its desire to have a troubleshooting service in relation to this digitalisation to meet the statutory requirement that banks offer a basic banking service to carry out the day-to-day operations. As you know, Test Achats has launched a petition that has already collected as many as 25,000 signatures protesting against the accelerated digitalization of the banking sector and the increase in bank charges. Madam Secretary of State, how do you react to this petition from Test Achats? How do you intend to respond to the people affected by this digital divide (pensioners, senior citizens, disadvantaged public) who have to cope with this "will" to digitize banking services as much as possible? This has also resulted in the closure of banking agencies and a reduction in staff. Have you already started a consultation with Febelfin on this subject, and in particular on the issue of discrimination between customers? What are the possibilities of freezing bank rate indexation or removing charges for low incomes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u12	Mr President, Mr Delizée, thank you for this question and for your congratulations. The digitization of our society is undeniably in progress. The financial sector, which is an important part of our economy, also relies heavily on the digitization of its services. This digital evolution is global. Belgium cannot and must not remain in retreat. However, care must be taken to ensure that the consumer, and especially the weak user, is not discriminated against or left behind as a result of this digital development. The SPF Economy, the Secretary of State and the Minister of Economy are responsible for deepening this issue of the digitalization of banking services and the impact on the most vulnerable people in order to be able to identify the major lessons learned and all points of attention. All aspects of this issue will be addressed, including Test Purchases' petition and all necessary measures to ensure that seniors have access to services related to their current account at a reasonable cost. European legislation on payment accounts and payment services will have to be taken into account since it is harmonised legislation. At the moment, I do not yet have all the necessary information and information to enable me to assess in practice and correctly all the consequences of this rapid technological change in banking services. In any event, I will not fail to inform you of any measures that will be taken, depending on the prerogatives that are mine. If an action plan on digitalisation in the financial sector was to prove useful, it would have to be determined how to implement it. To this end, collaboration and consultation with the sector appear to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that you are only at the beginning of your term of office and that you cannot yet be in possession of all the elements. However, when we look at the issue of poverty reduction, and in particular the question of the digital divide and the exorbitant costs involved, it is a real societal challenge. Madam Secretary of State, beyond your fairly general answer, I hope you can take this challenge with arms-to-body. My political group is waiting for your policy note and your general policy statement, hoping that you will be able to give more answers on this occasion. I understand it's a little early for you today, but the challenge is there. This issue concerns both the weakest, the most vulnerable as you said, but also the elderly, the older people who have not grown up in this digital world. I hope you will work with determination to defend and support those audiences who really need it. You have the function to do it. We will be paying attention to your proposals in the debates that we will shortly have in committee, in the time to come. As long as the problem does not date from yesterday, we must try to find a solution as quickly as possible. Thank you, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, the inhabitants of Lierneux recently learned of the disappearance of their last ticket distributor. After arresting him in March, Belfius announced to the mayor his choice not to return him to service. For the past six months, the inhabitants of Lierneux who have to withdraw money are therefore obliged to travel to Vielsalm or Manhay, which represents a round trip of about 20 kilometers. It is easy to imagine the impact on local trade of such a measure and its effects on the most vulnerable citizens, including seniors. In addition to the villagers concerned, it should be noted that Lierneux is home to one of the country's largest psychiatric care centres, whose visitors and staff are also affected. Last March, Belfius, BNP Paribas Fortis, ING and KBC joined forces and set up a new company called Batopin to set up and manage a common network of ATMs. Their ambition is to ensure that at least 95% of the Belgian population can find one of these devices at no more than five kilometres from their homes or shops. The contradiction between this objective and the decision taken in this case reinforces the incomprehension on the spot. I know that this government wants to ensure that the most vulnerable groups continue to have access to basic banking services. Did you get to know the particular situation of Lierneux? This announcement is very badly experienced by the locals. Does this village meet the conditions to be integrated into the new network being set up? May I ask you to discuss this with the Belfius and/or Batopin officials? In the light of the government agreement, what measures are you considering to prevent these far-reaching decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u15	Colleagues, at present I have not been aware of any real complaints or major problems regarding the absence of a ticket distributor in the municipality of Lierneux. Nevertheless, I am aware of the problems posed by the presence of distributors throughout the country, and I am very careful about this. The new company Batopin is in the process of being set up. However, I do not yet have all the necessary information about it. I will not fail to remind him of the importance of sufficient coverage of ticket distributors in order to ensure quality accessibility throughout the national territory. First of all, I would like to point out that banks have the task of offering a minimum service in terms of the accessibility of vending machines, ensuring their fair geographical distribution and availability, especially in rural areas. They must also communicate clearly when distributors are required to close and inform about proposed alternatives and their distributor installation strategies. A dialogue will be established with the banking institutions in this regard. However, for the time being, I do not yet have all the necessary information that will allow me to appreciate in practice and exactly all the consequences of this essential question. I will not fail to inform you of any measures that will be taken in the light of the government agreement, depending on the prerogatives that are mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this reminder of basic principles, which you have just listed. You indicate that you are not aware of the particular situation of Lierneux. We consider you to be from now on. Therefore, I will allow myself to return to you until a solution is found. You did not answer my particular question about the contacts you could make with Belfius. That would seem useful to me. You could then inform me of the content of your exchanges, so that I can pass on the answer to the local authorities. The stakes are real for the vitality of rural areas, threatened by isolation. I am thinking in particular of their local businesses, which are essential. As I indicated in my question, access to certain services for the elderly seems just as crucial to me. In short, we must not neglect this issue. I therefore hope that solutions will be found. My district has other problems, as is the case in the village of Jalhay - where no more banking services, in any case no more distributors, are available. The same difficulty arises in Hamoir, in the province of Liège: it takes 13 kilometres to find a distributor. That is why I invite you to do everything possible to find solutions for these territories quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u17	Mr President, first of all, I welcome our new Secretary of State. Madam Secretary of State, Belgium is one of the countries in Europe with the highest electricity bills. Every year, a Belgian family pays up to 245 euros more than the European average. Test-Achats has therefore decided to investigate those responsible for these costs. First of all, it is learned that electricity itself accounts for about 25% of the bill and the rest represents costs charged by the system operators or by the government. Then, and this is where the problem begins, the study reveals that citizens are not equal in terms of billing. For example, to cite only this example, households in the Verviers or Courtrai region are the worst off since they pay up to 250 euros more per year than their compatriots living in Brussels. This is explained, according to the authors of the study, by the many network areas that cross the Belgian territory with distribution rates specific to each area. Finally, as if that were not enough, Test-Achats also reveals that large consumers, like large companies, pay less for their bills than small consumers. Small energy consumers such as individuals, home offices and SMEs pay remarkably more than large consumers. In the GASELWEST network area of West Flanders, for example, a family must spend 201 euros per year per 1000 kWh. For the same service, a very large customer in the same network area pays the derisory sum of 9.78 euros. According to Test-Achats, lower costs for large consumers are offset by higher costs for households. Madam Secretary of State, how do you look at this investigation? What are you going to do to reduce the bills of small electricity consumers like families? How do you respond to Test-Achats, which calls for greater uniformity of rates and a revision of the discounts currently enjoyed by large consumers to the detriment of small consumers? What answers can you provide to his request to reduce the bill to the essentials and to remove certain operating costs? What can you do about it? Do you not think, like Test-Achats, that alternative financing should be promoted? The organisation proposes a tax on products that do not respect the environment. What do you think? What would you consider?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u18	Mr D'Amico, thank you for your question. In terms of network costs, large consumers are generally connected to higher voltage levels than those to which SMEs and residential customers are connected. Since electricity is generally transported from the higher voltage level to the lower voltage level, regulators currently consider that large consumers should not contribute to the financing of the specific infrastructure benefiting from the lower voltage level. As far as certain taxes are concerned, large consumers currently benefit from a degressivity mechanism whereby the legislator grants tax reductions to the final customer charging a significant amount of electricity on the grid. The financing of these tax reductions is borne by the State budget. Thus and contrary to what you say, SMEs and residential customers do not pay more to compensate for the low costs of large consumers. With regard to the actions that our Government intends to take, I would remind you that the problem of the low costs of distribution networks has been a regional competence since 2012, which I do not wish to expand further. With regard to taxes, our government agreement provides for a reduction in the federal share of the electricity bill. More specifically, our agreement provides that an affordable energy bill is essential for citizens and businesses. Prices are also subject to continuous monitoring. In addition, an energy standard will be introduced for citizens and businesses. The cost of the CRM in the energy bill, which will only come into effect from 2025, will be offset by a proportional reduction in the federal share of the invoice. The federal regulator CREG (Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas) is currently working on a study analysing the impact of the cost of the obligations of the Federal Public Service on the electricity bill. It will offer support for the competitiveness of companies that do not undermine the bills of households and SMEs to the benefit of CRM and offshore overload. The government is awaiting this study by the end of November 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State for these new elements. But as I said, after Denmark and Germany, we are the country where households pay the most for their electricity. From 2007 to 2019, the increase was 66%. That's deplorable. Even when it comes to energy prices, citizens are still being harmed by the big companies that make it at low prices, as if paying less taxes was already not enough. The PTB does not accept it. We will see what we can do to bring more justice in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u20	Thank you, Mr President, for the courtesy of dealing with the questions at the end, as I was allowed to ask questions to the Prime Minister. First of all, also through this official way congratulations, Mrs De Bleeker, with your appointment as Secretary of State. I do have a whole series of questions. My first question concerns the update of the energy labels. I was able to negotiate that dossier at European level. It's a very important file. When buying a household appliance, there are all kinds of indications about the energy efficiency of the device, up to a level A+++. The consumer no longer saw the trees through the forest. The difference between A++ and A+++ did not seem to be large, while there was a large difference in energy efficiency. That is why it is decided at European level not to work with +'s anymore, but only with the letters A, B, C, D and E. At first, A will not even exist, because one wants to be futureproof. In the future, there will still be devices on the market that will be more energy efficient. It is a very good thing. Right now, we're in transition. From November 2020 to March 2021, producers will have time to switch to the new system. As a result, we will temporarily have two labels, namely the old system with the +'s and the new system. This can cause confusion for consumers. It can wrongly think that an A++ is better than a B, whereas this is not the case. But there will still be confusion even after March 2021, as the new labels will only be phased in. That is why I have a number of specific questions. How can this confusion be avoided? Why has it been decided to carry out this step-by-step? Let me give you a concrete example. The new energy label for light sources will only be needed by September 2021, while for electric screens this should be the case as early as March 2021. Are you thinking of launching a awareness campaign or a campaign aimed at consumers? As part of the fight against climate change, I believe that every kilowatt hour we do not consume is the cheapest, the most economical and the best for the climate. Will the Economic Inspectorate carry out checks on the correct implementation of the new energy labels?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u21	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, without repeating the context completely, I can say that the current confusion leads to anomalies of such a nature that the same product gets an excellent score in one classification and a moderate to disappointing score in the other. Those who purchase energy- and climate-consciously take those scores into account. The decision-making process and the final choice depend on it. Madam Secretary of State, how should the consumer choose if there are two different scores for the same product, sometimes with a totally contradictory evaluation? What labeling or score should the consumer use during the transitional phase in his decision-making process, the old one or the new one? Were you aware of this problem? What initiatives will you take in this respect? How will you inform the consumer and reinstall perfect information on the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mrs Verhelst, thank you for your questions, which will ensure that the files arrive quickly on my desk, which will allow us to work on them quickly. The same applies, of course, to the questions put by the other Members. The presence of two labels in a box may indeed be considered as double or confusing, but it is necessary to give manufacturers and retailers time to provide the new label for each product concerned by 1 March 2021. To avoid confusion during this period as much as possible, the FPS Economy has launched a communication campaign since the end of September 2020 to inform consumers during the various steps of this transition phase. Some professional federations and consumer organisations have also drawn up a communication plan for this transition. To coordinate these campaigns, my services have regular consultations with Test Purchase, Comeos, Agoria and Nelectra. Such consultations shall be maintained, at least until the new labels appear in the store shelves, and shall be cited whenever a subsequent product group introduces the new label. Unfortunately, the changes associated with the new energy labels are not limited only to the layout of the labels, but also to a simple shift of classes. For example, for each product group, each aspect of both the test method and the method of calculation of different parameters was evaluated. In addition, the size of the different classes was reviewed, so that the difference between the classes again corresponds to a significant saving of operating costs, as mentioned in the demand. All these changes require a thorough technical and economic analysis of each individual product group. For each product group, extensive stakeholder consultations were organised, followed by negotiations between the different EU Member States. Rescaling all product groups together was not an option given the extensive process and technical characteristics of each product. It was chosen to rescale in different waves, with the first wave covering the most visible products, but also those where the upper classes were fully filled or where the available technology was already well above the highest classes. Thanks to this prioritisation, products with the greatest potential for energy savings under the new label are first addressed. For subsequent rescaling efforts will be made to rescale different types in clusters. Initially, the new label itself provides a stronger incentive for consumers to purchase a more energy efficient product. The difference between the classes becomes greater and, as you said, the top class A will remain empty for some time to come. Moreover, thanks to the significant changes in the test methods, the new label better reflects real energy consumption, so that consumers are better informed about the choice of an energy-efficient product. The QR code on the new label, which will refer to a central product database from 1 March 2021, will further facilitate that choice between energy efficiency-based devices. Secondly, the FPS Economy, in cooperation with various stakeholders, will support the transition to the new label throughout the transition period. This will clarify the characteristics of the new label that have just been mentioned to the consumer. The ongoing information campaign not only focuses on the possible presence of two different labels, but also prepares the consumer for the upcoming differences with the old label. In the run-up to 1 March 2021, more attention will then be paid to the actual introduction of the new label into the store shelves. The Economic Inspectorate will indeed carry out checks on the correct implementation of the new energy labels. This will be done on the basis of the notifications received by the Economic Inspectorate through the hotline and other channels, but can also be done on the own initiative of the inspection officers. When they find an irregularity, the inspection officers will advise the trader concerned to regularise it, but where and when necessary they will also be able to act as a deterrent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, the communication campaign will indeed be very important. You say that she has started since the end of September, but I have not seen any of that myself. It is important to reach as large a group as possible to ensure that people will effectively buy the most energy-efficient device. Finally, have I understood correctly that this phased approach is happening all over Europe, or is it just us? It's happening everywhere. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that the issue is being followed up very well, including with the sectors, and that there is good communication. That is, after all, the most crucial thing. I am also glad that this is also very visible. At the end of September 2020, I have already read a newspaper article on the issue, in which it was clearly the first point of attention. It may have to appear in every shop where people have to make choices. It is, however, a good thing that it is being followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, the coalition agreement aims at a more circular economy. I think that everyone can only welcome and endorse that. I do believe that close coordination with the Länder is important here, because much of the competence lies with the Länder. In the light of the transition to a more circular economy, it is stated, among other things, that the timely transposition of the European Guarantee Directive will be pursued. I do not need to remind you that Belgium is not such a good student when it comes to transposing European directives. In any case, the Directive provides that when a product has been purchased in the EU that differs from the description or does not work properly, the seller must repair or replace it or return the consumer his money. I remember the negotiations. It was very difficult to decide from when a new product should be given or when it should be restored. A kind of three-stage missile was eventually included in the Guarantee Directive. The purchase of each product is subject to a minimum guarantee period of two years, which has been applied in Belgium for some time. Madam Secretary of State, what is the timeline for transposing the directive? How will Belgium implement the European Guarantee Directive? Will Belgium take broader measures than those requested? If so, for which parts? Is it being considered, for example, to extend the guarantee period? Will transposition take into account the way in which our neighbouring countries will implement the directive? I am talking about gold-plating, which is very important to maintain our competitive position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u26	I will answer the first two questions together. The Ministry of Justice shall endeavour to ensure that the Guarantee Directive for Goods has been transposed into the Civil Code before 1 July 2021. The Guarantee Directive is up to harmonisation, with room for manoeuvre for Member States only in a few respects, including a system of reversal of the burden of proof for two years and a longer guarantee period than two years. These points are still the subject of a political debate, with all the elements being considered, in order to achieve a well-balanced settlement. I cannot yet say what possible derogations will be made; it is certainly not the intention to deviate. The aim of the Directive's maximum harmonisation is to ensure the uniform protection of European consumers. The points on which Member States may issue wider provisions concern in particular some obligations of sellers and should not lead to Belgium being exposed to a competitive disadvantage compared to neighbouring countries. I will certainly look closely at this, in accordance with the coalition agreement, which rejects gold-plating.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for putting forward a specific date. The aim of the directive was maximum harmonisation, but unfortunately this was not achieved at European level. There are countries, such as Portugal and the United Kingdom, where a longer guarantee period applies. They did not, of course, see fit to apply only a two-year guarantee period, in line with Europe, while there is a longer national deadline. It is very important not to use gold-plating to safeguard our country's competitiveness. You argue that it is included in the government agreement that Belgium will not do gold-plating. In the coalition agreement, the plan is much less pronounced than in the pre-formers' note. It simply stated that Belgium will not do gold plating. In the final version of the coalition agreement, many other things are added to that. Hopefully, as Secretary of State, you will see to it that we do not actually do that gold plating.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u28	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you have seen a lot of different topics coming up today. This time it's about the electric steps. In my neighborhood, I see more and more people taking advantage of it. Research from Test Purchase shows that the safety of electric steps is very often inadequate. When I'm on my bike, I'm surprised how people pass me with an electric step, while they don't wear a helmet and the very narrow cycle path is wet. I'm really gonna ask myself some questions about that. For example, there appear to be problems with the allowed speed of the step. That reminds me a bit of the mopeds that are being driven up, so they go faster. There are also problems with spray resistance and brake resistance, especially in the case of rainy weather. Moreover, there are fears of problems with possible repairs and thus with the guarantee of such steps. Based on her research, Test Purchase advises against the use of electric steps, which is quite drastic. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Have you taken note of the examination of Test Purchase? How do you evaluate this investigation? Will you take additional measures or initiatives, as happened for the speed pedals? How is the conformity and safety of these means of transport monitored on the European market? How many infringements were identified in 2019 and 2020? What action has been taken on these infringements? Were they taken off the market, for example? If so, what number were they?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u29	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have indeed heard in the press that Test Purchase has carried out an investigation into this and that a number of problems have come to light. The electric steps are covered by the Royal Decree of 12 August 2008 concerning the placing of machinery on the market. This Decision is an implementing act in Book IX of the Economic Law Code concerning the safety of products and services. This is the Belgian transposition of the European Parliament's directive on machinery. There is currently no specific standard for this type of product. The verification of conformity and safety is therefore carried out on the basis of the Royal Decree and parts of standards applicable to such products. In 2019 and 2020, a European joint campaign took place on electric steps, electric bikes, hoverboards and uniwheels, CASP 2019 - Personal Transporters. During that campaign, three electric step models were subject to administrative and technical control in Belgium. However, brake tests were not carried out, but splash resistance tests were carried out. Only one of the three steps in the Belgian research failed. The step didn't function after the test, but that didn't lead to dangerous conditions. For two steps the manufacturer was asked to stop the sale and for a third step a warning was sent, due to a number of administrative shortcomings. A total of 19 steps were tested during this European campaign. Following the campaign, a communication campaign was launched with purchase tips and tips for safe use of the steps. It is available on the website of the FPS Economy. I can send you the link. The economic inspection also received and followed up three RAPEX notifications from EU Member States on hazardous products in the period 2019-2020. Work is currently under way on drawing up specific standards. They will of course be followed by my administration and will probably be discussed further here. Based on stakeholder input, electric steps and electric bicycles were re-integrated into the multi-annual control programme. We are observing the evolution of the fact that more and more types of step are being made available to consumers. We will monitor it and ensure the protection of the users of those steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, a campaign for safe use is certainly not an unnecessary luxury. You also mentioned work on specific standards, and I am thinking, for example, of speed limits. Is that a possibility? Another point is what part of the public road they must use. Are they allowed to drive on the bike path, on the footpath or on the road? For a cyclist or a pedestrian it is always scared when someone suddenly flies by on a step. However, measures are primarily necessary for the safety of users themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u31	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the fact that Airbnb sometimes charges double service costs, namely both to the tenant and to the landlord. In March of this year, a court in Amsterdam ruled that this should not be done, that it is double up when charging the service costs to both. That would be contrary to a Dutch law, which states that a mediator should not charge both those costs. If that happens, it is the tenant who is protected against it. The issue is currently pending at the Dutch Supreme Court. What is the situation in Belgium? Did the FPS Economy already receive complaints about this? Is there any Belgian legislation banning this double counting? If yes, has Airbnb already been contacted about this? Has any consideration been given to whether a provision should also be included in Belgian legislation, in line with the example of the Netherlands, in order to prohibit this practice of double service costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I would first of all like to refer to the answer given by the previous Minister for Consumer Affairs to a similar question in the committee on 1 July. Airbnb's double charging system also applies in Belgium, as Airbnb applies the same conditions in the European Economic Area. The payment of service costs to both the tenant and the landlord under a rental contract, concluded via a platform such as Airbnb, is not prohibited under Belgian law, provided that both the landlord and the tenant were clearly and intelligibly informed about the applicable service costs prior to the conclusion of the contract. Companies must always comply with their pre-contractual information obligations and must not engage in misleading commercial or market practices, as provided for in the Economic Law Code. In the present case, Article 6 of Airbnb's general terms and conditions clearly and intelligibly determines the charging of service costs to both the tenant and the landlord. These service charges are also indicated during the booking process, so that the potential tenant becomes aware of them before he decides to finalise his booking. Tourism issues were regionalised, but this regulation does not prohibit the charging of double service costs for the rental of tourist accommodation. Meanwhile, the FPS Economy has made an analysis of the need for a provision prohibiting the charging of double service costs, as mentioned by the previous Minister of Consumer Affairs in its answer to your question. In view of the absence of a ban in the regulations on tourism and the clarity of the pre-contractual information provided by Airbnb concerning the double charging of service costs concerned, I do not consider it appropriate to include an additional ban on consumer protection in the legislation. : Finally, I can inform you that the Economic Inspectorate has not received any reports regarding Airbnb's double charging of service costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, the reason why I ask the question again is because your predecessor had replied that she would ask the FPS Economy if any complaints had already been received and, if so, whether it would be necessary to take legislative initiatives. So my question is actually meant as a follow-up question. In this respect, I am aware of the position that the current government will take on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, this question is about the costs that banks and insurers can charge to their customers. These are mainly costs such as savings for the construction of additional pension capital, but also for the refinancing of mortgage loans. It is a good thing that it is said that measures can be taken to protect consumers. But I think it is very important, before making any new legislation, that the existing legislation should at least be implemented and applied. That's where we see the shoe wrings. In 2017, the then Minister of Consumer Affairs, Kris Peeters, imposed ceilings on file costs for mortgage credit. These were committed at EUR 500 for a mortgage residential loan, EUR 300 for a bridging loan and EUR 250 for a refinancing at the same institution. Those are the rules that exist today. We now notice that these are still not respected by all banking companies. The Economic Inspection carried out an investigation at the beginning of 2020. This showed, for example, that the bank charged ING 500 euros for the refinancing of a residential loan each time, whereas this should actually be only 250 euros. The file was therefore transferred by the Economic Inspectorate to the Brussels Parket. I have a number of questions about that. I know that you are not allowed to comment on the content of the investigation, but if necessary whether a specific statement has already been made on this matter. If not, when is this expected? In the meantime, how is the consumer protected from these practices? After all, it has been effectively established that things cannot happen. Does the Economic Inspectorate have similar complaints about other financial institutions that are also guilty of violating this legislation? If so, how much and what action has been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u35	Indeed, the Economic Inspectorate transferred to the Brussels Office the minutes it prepared concerning ING Belgium for file costs 100% above the legal ceiling, in the case of internal refinancing of a mortgage credit with a real-estate purpose. Consequently, this dossier is no longer in the hands of the Economic Inspectorate and cannot be further communicated. On the basis of ING Belgium's tariffs, the Economic Inspection established that since May 2020 the file costs for the refinancing of an existing ING mortgage credit amount to EUR 250, i.e. the legal ceiling. In the framework of its 2020 Action Plan, the Economic Inspection is currently conducting an own-initiative investigation into the level of file costs that the creditors authorised by the FSMA apply for for such refinancing. Since the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 24 February 2017 on the determination of the maximum file costs in the case of a mortgage credit for immovable purposes, the Economic Inspectorate has not received any notifications regarding the previous issue through the FPS Economy hotline.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u36	It is indeed important that consumers pay only EUR 250 effectively in the meantime. It is a good thing to see that there are no other financial institutions involved in this practice. I'd gotten word from people that this would still be like this, but this might have been earlier. I'll check it again and otherwise tell those people to file a complaint with the FPS Economy or with the Economic Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, my combined questions were prompted by the answers I asked earlier to your predecessor, Mrs Muylle. During the first wave of this corona crisis, the government decided to issue coronavouchers in the period between March and June, where the consumer receives a voucher to the value of the trip he booked and with which he or she can book a trip for that value within the year. The advantage of the voucher issued during that period is that it is covered by the Guarantee Fund Travel if the travel organisation goes bankrupt in the meantime. I have asked for figures on this, and I must honestly say that I am shocked by the number of vouchers issued during that period, i.e. almost 210,000 vouchers for an amount of EUR 351 million, of which EUR 307 million is still available. In other words, this amount of EUR 307 million may have to be covered by the Travel Guarantee Fund. I asked your predecessor whether the Guarantee Fund has sufficient resources to cover this. She said she'd have that examined. That's why I'm asking you a follow-up question today. How will the issue of the guarantee and insolvency insurers be resolved? What are the initial findings of the working group set up for this purpose? What ideas and possible solutions are being put forward? What system of sustainable financing for the Guarantee Fund Travel is your priority in order to ensure that the guarantee scheme for consumers is not abolished? My other question is about how the money from the Guarantee Fund will be distributed. In addition to the large travel organisations, such as TUI and Neckermann, there are a lot of small SMEs offering travel. I have heard dramatic stories about this, recently from a woman who would retire in two years' time. Some make advance payments of bookings, for example from hotels. That woman had between 200,000 and 300,000 euros out there. So they see their life's work almost go up in smoke, hence the question of how the money from the Guarantee Fund Travel will be distributed among the different players, because when the big players are first dealt with, nothing will be left for the SMEs. Is there any plan for the distribution in the worst case scenario that the Guarantee Fund Travel would not have sufficient resources to cover all costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u38	This question had already reached my office before you asked it, because it is a very urgent issue that affects many people in the sector. The outbreak of the corona virus has had an impact on the travel sector for a long time and will remain so for a long time to come. The next year will determine the survival of many companies and this will include insolvency protection. At the end of September there was a first meeting of the working group set up by the cabinet of former Minister Muylle. The group's work is still ongoing and we are currently looking at what has already been discussed there. There are no concrete conclusions yet, but the initial discussions have shown that there is not only a need for a short-term solution, but also a whole new system to provide effective long-term insolvency protection. The problem is, of course, part of my priorities and that of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Our cabinets and services are discussing the issue, but I cannot give you much details at the moment, as the work is in progress. As soon as there is more clarity about this, we will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic292x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, as you rightly pointed out, the problem is very urgent. It is not a turnover reduction of 20% or 30%; it is simply no longer a turnover. So we are seeing really dramatic situations here. There must therefore be a solution, not only in the short term but also in the long term. It is, moreover, the only sector in which insolvency insurance is to be provided, for which the companies concerned also have to pay a great deal of money. I very much hope that, when the funds are paid out, small SMEs will not be abandoned and that at least the same attention will be paid to them.
