ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u1	Good morning, everyone. I would like to thank the services that are operational today too. It's not necessarily common on Fridays. Thank you very much to the services and translators for being here today. I would like to recall a few rules for oral question-and-answer sessions. The Minister will answer questions. A PowerPoint has been prepared by the Minister, which facilitates discussion and debate. May I remind you that we propose that you refer your questions to the written text. In the transcripts, you will have your question as sent in writing. All you have to say is that you refer to the written text. If you have a question, you have two minutes of speaking time. If you have more than one question, you have three minutes in total. If you refer to the written text, these two or three minutes are carried directly to the reply. So you have more time for your reply. If you decide to read or synthesize your questions, that is what you say in the meeting that will appear on the record, not the written text of your questions. At the beginning of your speech, you specify the method you choose and so I can postpone your speaking time directly. We come to Mrs. Pas's inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my speech deals with a special case of parental leave. Parental leave is a thematic leave that can be taken to spend more time with the children. A total of four full months of parental leave may be taken per parent. However, it is not possible for one parent, if he does not take parental leave, to transfer his or her parental leave to the other partner. There are a number of understandable reasons why this is not possible. In certain situations, I believe that this should be allowed, namely when one parent dies. Under the current scheme, parental leave of the parent who dies will lapse if he or she has not yet taken parental leave or has not taken full parental leave. The loss of a partner is already heavy. Seeing children suffer and trying to support them, despite their own grief, is at least as heavy, or much heavier. On top of that there are concerns about administration and often financial problems. The longest-lived parent is suddenly responsible for raising the children, the household and so on. In order to keep up financially, the single parent usually has to combine all this with a full-time job. In any case, the combination of work and family life is a challenge for every parent, but an extra big one in this situation. If the surviving parent can take advantage of the parental leave that was not taken by the deceased partner, I think this could help to make work and care for the children somewhat combinable. In 2015, a transitional allowance was introduced to encourage young widows and widowers to remain active in the labour market or to enter the labour market. I am convinced that relaxing this regulation on parental leave for the surviving spouse can also contribute to this. I am convinced that making parental leave of the deceased parent is also a highly justified measure for the child who has lost a parent. Now, children who are lucky enough to have both their parents can double enjoy a parent who is available through parental leave than the young children whose parents have died. I have a number of specific questions for you, Madam Secretary. How does the government view the possible transfer of the residual balance from parental leave to the surviving partner? Have you already consulted with interest groups, with employers' organisations? What concrete measures can be taken to enable parental leave to be transferred to the surviving partner? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u3	Mrs Pas, as you say, the right to parental leave in the current state of the legislation has been understood as an individual right under each male and female worker. For this reason, the current rules do not provide for the possibility of transferring this leave from one partner to another, for example in the event of the death of one of the parents, without taking all or part of his or her parental leave. The question of whether or not the adjustment proposed by you should be considered is a question which I do not think can be separated from the transposition which Belgium still has to implement of the new European Directive No. 2019/1158 on the balance between work and private life for parents and carers. This Directive also includes provisions on parental leave. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to include all proposals or suggestions for adapting existing parental leave, with a view to the transposition of that directive, and to check whether they comply with the directive. The National Labour Council has started work on this and has met several times on this matter. The transposition of that Directive should only take place by 2 August 2022. The transferability of a non-recorded balance in case of death can certainly also be part of the discussion within the National Labour Council. Mrs Pas, I very much understand your question. I will certainly stress that these discussions must continue within the National Labour Council, but I cannot change these matters today by means of a proxy decision because this is a longer-term regulation. I think this is something that Parliament can certainly accept, and I would therefore recommend to the committee that we get to work on it. However, it is important not to lose sight of the review of the transposition of the Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u4	Madam Secretary, I am sure you understand the situation. Luckily, it's not about a lot of people either. Most become happy but widow or widower at a later age, when they no longer have young children. It can't have such a big influence on employers, because it's not about many cases. It is a pity that the transposition of the European directive is not planned until 2022, because it is already a precarious situation for many people today. I'd have liked to have seen things move a little faster. I have tabled a motion for a recommendation to the services to encourage the government to take an initiative which, of course, has to comply with the directive. I will certainly keep that motion in mind, but I certainly keep in mind your suggestion to come to Parliament with an initiative myself. I think that for many people this is a good solution or a soothing solution to the difficult situation in which they are in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u5	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers in charge of Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities, - having regard to the impossibility of transferring unused parental leave from one parent to another, - considering the emotional, administrative, practical and often financial problems caused by the death of a parent; - whereas an optimal combination of work and family can encourage young widows/widowers to remain active in the labour market; - whereas children who still have both parents can enjoy twice as much of a parent on parental leave; asks the government allow the transfer of the residual balance from parental leave to the surviving partner." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister for Employment, the Economy and Consumers, responsible for the fight against poverty, equality of opportunity and people with disabilities, - in view of the impossibility of transferring unused parental leave from one parent to another; - considering the emotional, administrative, practical and often financial problems associated with the death of a parent; Whereas an optimal combination of work and family life is likely to encourage young widows and widowers to be or remain active in the labour market; Whereas children who still have both parents have the possibility of having a parent on parental leave multiplied by two; asks the government make it possible to transfer the parental leave balance to the surviving partner." A simple motion was tabled by Leen Dierick and Nahima Lanjri. A simple motion was tabled by Ms.Leen Dierick and Ms.Nahima Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u6	Madam President, as I said earlier, I agree with what the Minister said. I understand the situation myself. Mrs Pas, it is true that this is a limited group. However, we cannot implement this without the advice of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u7	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u8	I therefore propose that we look at the dossier later, possibly in committee. Now, however, as the Minister himself has pointed out, the government cannot record that file. For example, the issue is not included in the proxy decisions. It is not currently authorized to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u9	The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u10	Colleagues, the minister proposes that you do not take too much time in the presentation of your questions, so that you will save time in the debate. Mrs. Rohonyi, you will have three minutes to reply. This will allow you to address other issues, of course. Since this is a topical debate, you will be able to take the floor again. Does this method suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u11	Yes, it seems to me very correct and in line with the organisation of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u12	I now give the floor to Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u13	Madam President, allow me to inform you that Mrs Dierick is currently attending another meeting. I will contact Mr Dierick to find out what she wants to do with her questions. I suppose, however, that her questions are included in the prepared answer and the powerpoint presentation of the Minister, which also provides written answers to her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u14	Mrs Lanjri, you will now have the floor for your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u15	Madam President, Minister, my first question, on temporary unemployment benefits and the impact on integration is about people with disabilities, but I understand that the Minister will also answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u16	Madam Minister, on April 8, I asked you about the control in companies of security and social distancing measures. You replied that, from March 23 to April 3, 714 complaints were registered. Most of the checks were carried out remotely. Indeed, 750 remote checks were carried out for only 328 on-the-spot checks. Of these 328 on-the-spot checks, 280 companies were in breach. This means that more than 85% of businesses were in violation! I find this very worrying. We're playing with workers' health. Every day, many testimonies come back to me to tell me that the rules are not respected. You told me that there were 280 warnings, 52 regularization deadlines, only 20 company closures and one report. It is necessary to harden the tone. The response must be commensurate with the seriousness of the situation. There must be more on-the-spot checks and not just a warning or a delay when the health of workers and lives is at stake. Minister, can you give me updated figures? Have you increased the number of on-the-spot checks? Have the companies that received a warning been revisited? How many were again in violation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u17	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is about corona parental leave. Of course, I'm glad it could have been put in place. However, I believe that there is a need for improvement. Today, this leave is only available with the agreement of the employer. This parental leave would be a right for all workers. This leave is only available to full-time or four-fifth-time workers. The others are excluded. However, part-time workers also need solutions. Moms often do. Why not extend it? This parental leave, if the employer agrees, is only available to workers who are currently in the prescribed conditions on a part-time basis. It's too little. We also consider that the allowance is insufficient and will therefore be a hindrance to taking parental leave. I take the example of someone who is currently working full-time and who would get part-time parental leave. If he loses 1,000 euros by spending half-time, his allowance will be only 440 euros. Admit that you have to have a spouse or a famous wool stockings to be able to afford to lose nearly 600 euros per month. This is far from everyone's case. In these circumstances, I am afraid that some may be tempted to negotiate temporary unemployment with their employer to obtain 70% of their wages. This is obviously not the objective. Finally, public service workers with children also have great difficulties in reconciling work and child care. Minister, is this leave also available in the public service? If not, what justifies this exclusion? I come to the possibility of converting into parental leave corona a parental leave or a time credit with reason to take care of his child. What leave already in progress can be converted into "corona" leave? Do you confirm that time credits for the purpose of caring for a child can be converted into "corona" leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Verhelst's 55005516C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u19	Madam President, I have been able to reach Mr Dierick in the meantime. With your permission, Mr Dierick also refers to her written questions, as her questions will be included in the answer prepared by the Minister. If you disagree, another possibility is that she will have her questions converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u20	We will refer to the written text, but I think that the subject is being dealt with elsewhere and so there will be information anyway today. We are now launching the Minister's PowerPoint.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u21	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to assess the precedent value of the request that Mr Lanjri has just put to you. Can we, as Members of Parliament, have our questions put by a colleague when we are not present at a committee meeting? I find that a strange way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u22	No, Mr Anseew, I actually meant to say that I was turning question No. 55004931C of Mrs Dierick into a written question, i.e. I did not refer it to the written text today, I said that it would be transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u23	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u24	As far as the competence of work is concerned, I will give an integrated answer, built around a number of thematic clusters, such as temporary unemployment, safe work, corona parents' leave and other specific aspects. I will address the five questions on poverty reduction and people with disabilities at the end of my speech. Slides eight and nine are on this, too. My answer will be followed, just like last time, on the basis of the bilingual slides. Slide 1 concerns temporary unemployment in general. There were several questions on the abuse of Mr Anseuw, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mr De Vuyst, Mrs Thémont and Mrs Moscufo. I am aware that there may be abuses of the granting and payment of the benefit during this period of corona. I have therefore decided to detect them and put a stop to them. The ONEM is doing everything in its power to identify and stop abuses related to the granting and payment of temporary unemployment benefits during this period of crisis of the coronavirus. In the first instance, all complaints will be examined in greater detail. An administrative audit will be initiated in which the employer and whether or not employee can be contacted by e-mail or telephone and where internal and external databases are consulted with a view to obtaining more information and also to subsequently assessing whether there could be abuse. If there are indications of fraud, one can also make an observation or field check. The RVA is once again carrying out on-the-spot checks with respect for strict safety procedures for inspectors and citizens. Finally, the abuse related to temporary unemployment during this crisis of coronavirus is also detected, inter alia, by crossing databases. In this way, potential fraud files are identified and further investigated. Since 13 March, the RVA has received 115 complaints concerning companies suspected of fraud linked to temporary unemployment regulations in corona times. In addition, the RVA also received 132 corona complaints via SIOD. The complaints were sometimes the same as those received directly through the RVA. The ONEM also acts in a preventive and informative manner both for the processing of the case by contacting employers, workers and social secretariats, and during field checks. The ONEM informs every citizen, company or organisation via its website about the possibility of lodging a complaint with the point of contact for fair competition, when they are aware of fraud, or in case of a serious presumption of fraud. This contact point also offers a temporary form for infringements of measures taken against coronavirus, including those relating to temporary unemployment. In this crisis period we can take into account that temporary unemployment for many employers and employees was an unknown fact, which they come into contact with for the first time. Solidarity is more important than ever, but it also requires the absence of abuse. Strict action will be taken against those who are aware of the current situation and wish to obtain unlawful advantage to which they are not entitled. During the corona crisis, it is not necessary for temporary unemployment due to force majeure to be completely closed down. Some workers may be temporarily unemployed and others may not, and workers may also alternate days of unemployment and benefits. The electronic declaration of social risk, in professional jargon in the ASR5 scenario, which the employer must do every month for his employee with temporary unemployment, must correspond to the actual working situation of each employee. If it appears that the employer does not comply with the electronic ASR5 scenario, it may incur different types of sanctions. Firstly, temporary unemployment can be refused and he will be obliged to pay the wages to his employees. In addition, the Social Criminal Code may impose criminal sanctions on him. The criminal sanctions depend on the nature and severity of the infringement and may amount to a prison sentence of six months to three years and/or a criminal penalty of up to EUR 48 000 per employee involved in the offence. Furthermore, I can inform you that the RVA has taken note of the problem of consultants between two assignments, i.e. consultants on the bench, and is currently investigating them. If it turns out that the employer has abused the system, he may incur the same kind of sanctions as I mentioned earlier. However, it is not possible to make an estimate of the organisation of work and the workload attributed by the employer to each worker during teleworking days. It can only be checked if there is no work benefit provided during the days on which temporary unemployment is claimed. If it is found that the employer has wanted to circumvent the rules on temporary unemployment, he may also be sanctioned as provided for in the Social Criminal Code. Then there are a lot of questions about the transitional measures, the force majeure, economic reasons, the travel sector and aviation of Mr Anseeeuw, Mrs Samyn, Mrs Dierick and Mrs Houtmeyers. From 20 March 2020, a flexible procedure was introduced for the declaration of temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus, whether due to a real force majeure situation, such as an imposed quarantine or closure, or rather due to a lack of work, such as a decrease in demand or a lack of supply of raw materials. Therefore, this could only be declared as force majeure by the employer to the RVA on the basis of a monthly declaration of social ASR risk. This method was necessary to enable the timely determination of benefits and proved to be useful. It is inherent in the less stringent procedure, without prior declaration and the possibility of verification in function of that declaration, that in some cases it entails more risk of abuse. However, I can confirm that the supervisory services of the RVA have now identified fraud mechanisms, including on the basis of cross-databases. Subsequent checks will be carried out, with benefits wrongly received being recovered. The flexible procedure for the declaration of temporary unemployment currently applies until 30 June 2020. I intend to propose to the government that the temporary unemployment corona scheme be extended until 31 August 2020. Many employers' organisations are asking for this because the impact of the corona virus on our economic activity is very high, even after 30 June 2020. It is also of the utmost importance for the affected workers to ensure maximum income through an extension of temporary unemployment due to force majeure corona. I am aware that the travel sector and the aviation sector as well as some other specific sectors, such as the event sector, are heavily affected by the impact of coronavirus. But it will indeed take some time before these sectors can fully resume their activities. For all sectors, I am currently working on a transitional arrangement, in consultation with my administrations, to move from the smooth application of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure to the normal rules of application of temporary unemployment for economic reasons. This includes both the scheme for workers and the scheme for servants. Of course, when drawing up the transitional measures, I will analyse whether the temporary unemployment scheme meets the needs of the travel sector, the aviation sector and other sectors that have been seriously affected. This is new. The principles of the transitional arrangements are as follows: They are also the proposal I will make. Firstly, the transitional arrangements will apply when the temporary unemployment corona will cease. The deadline is currently set, as indicated, at 30 June 2020. That date may be adjusted in the light of the evolution of the economic situation. Secondly, in the transitional arrangements, the appropriation of economic unemployment for servants 2020 will be increased. Thirdly, the temporary unemployment scheme for workers will be adjusted by increasing the number of weeks of unemployment, which must be followed by a week's work. You know the system: four weeks of unemployment and one week of work. For certain sectors, that is eight weeks of unemployment and one week of work. We would also like to take note of that. Fourthly, the preliminary conditions of reduction of turnover in order to apply temporary unemployment to employed persons for economic reasons will not apply in the transitional arrangements. For servants in the current scheme I actually have to call it the old scheme.... there must be a turnover decrease of 10 %. In front of the hatch servants, we'd drop that. As a result of the restart of the companies, temporary unemployment due to force majeure due to the coronavirus will in principle no longer be possible. Temporary unemployment may be possible for economic reasons. The transitional arrangements should therefore allow the transition to take place without excessive administrative obligations. However, temporary unemployment for force majeure may also be used when a company is faced with a lack of supply of raw materials on the expected delivery date, provided that the delay in delivery is not due to fault of the employer, such as a late order, for example. The closures imposed by the government can also be described as force majeure, as has always been the case. On 27 April applications for temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus were submitted in the travel sector for 25,498 persons, of which 9,066 for the Brussels-Capital Region, 4,173 for the Walloon Region and 12,249 for the Flemish Region. Within my remit Work and Economics, I have taken a number of general measures which benefit all sectors of the economy, including the travel sector. With the voucher system, I quickly took targeted measures to address liquidity problems facing and facing the tour operators. We will have to judge in the future whether a continuation of the measures taken is necessary or if new measures are to be imposed. Mr Anseuw and Mrs Samyn had questions about temporary unemployment in Belgium and in relation to neighbouring countries. I must make it clear that the neighbouring countries, with the exception of France, would make significantly less use of systems similar to our temporary unemployment. I refer here to Eurostat's figures of 27 April which show that in Belgium 21% of all employees are temporarily unemployed, in Germany 19 percent, in the Netherlands 20 percent, in France 43 percent and in Luxembourg 68 percent. However, these figures are estimates for all countries which, of course, do not take into account the definition of who is eligible for the system in question in each of the countries. We can say that the Belgian system is used a little more than the German Kurzarbeit and perhaps a little less than the chômage temporaire in France, although this is a first assessment. It is not wise to speculate now on the reasons for these differences. I would add that it is important to make a difference between what has been requested and what has actually been paid out. The March figures are now in. Of course, this only concerns half a month for many. April figures cover a full month. There are very many references to 160,000 companies and 1.3 million people in temporary unemployment. However, these are companies that have applied for all their employees. When we look at the effective payouts, we see that it is 1,29,000 for March and 1,048,000 for April. However, an average of 7.8 days have been paid for March. For April, the peak period and also a full month, there was an average of 14 days payout for those who are temporarily unemployed. In the system of temporary unemployment there are 26 working days and only 1 in 5 was completely temporarily unemployed, i.e. 20%. The March payments amounted to around EUR 400 and just over EUR 800 for April. I'm just gonna give this to you because it's important. For the transitional systems that I have just mentioned, we must bear in mind that there is still a great deal of activity left. Many companies have partially kept their people working both in March and April. We see that in the figures of the number of days and the benefits paid. In April the companies had not started again and the shops will not open again until Monday. However, we can see that 250,000 new people have entered the system this month, but that 250,000 have already left the system. It's a very flexible system. So companies can handle the system in a very flexible way, which was also the intention. We wanted to be able to provide oxygen while maintaining employment. In all comparisons with neighbouring countries, it is important not only to look at the general figures, but also to look at the effective payments. In the coming period, these effective disbursements will allow us to see clearly what impact our measures have had compared to the approach in neighbouring countries. Some of you have also referred to the financial and economic crisis of 2008-2009. I think we can say that the current crisis is much larger. Moreover, for the use of temporary unemployment, there is now usually a direct causal link with the measures to ensure public health. This was not the case in the financial and economic crisis. As far as the control of the improper use of temporary unemployment is concerned, I must also refer to my reply just now. As the benefit is limited on the basis of the wage ceiling of EUR 2 754.56 gross per month, the loss of earnings is not the same for all employees. Unemployment insurance cannot, however, fully compensate for any loss of income within a manageable financial framework. If some would receive a higher income, the cause of this is not unemployment insurance, but, for example, in certain contributions which are still paid by other governments or social funds above unemployment benefit and which are linked to the benefit as a temporary unemployed person. The system of temporary unemployment compensates for the loss of income for the employee only to the extent that these workers are also effectively bound by a contract of employment. It would be an abuse of the system, for example, to fictively conclude a new employment contract after the expiry of a fixed-term employment contract or a temporary employment contract, just to allow the worker to benefit from the temporary unemployment scheme. We discussed this in detail in the context of the interim jobs last time. As a general rule, these workers will be entitled to benefits as total unemployed. I have taken measures to ensure maximum income retention, such as the temporary freeze of the degressivity of benefits and the extension of entitlement to benefits by three months. I can join the authors, Giupponi and Landais, authors of the article to which you refer, Building effective short-time work schemes for COVID-19 crisis. They see temporary unemployment as a good thing, in the sense that the alternative, a dismissal, would entail much higher transaction costs for both employers and employees. It would make the return to the workplace much more difficult and have an even more damaging impact on the loss of income and consumer confidence of workers. Also from international institutions, such as the OECD, the system, such as our temporary unemployment, has been and is now widely recommended. The current situation is therefore a textbook example of why this type of approach, which is internationally referred to as short-time work arrangement, is used. There were other questions on temporary unemployment from Mrs Thémont and Mr Bihet and Mr Bertels. It is true that this crisis has an important impact on the employment opportunities of the unemployed. I have taken maximum measures to support the affected workers and the unemployed. For workers, temporary unemployment benefits have been increased to 70% of the capped wage and the procedure for temporary unemployment due to force majeure has been considerably relaxed. For the unemployed, the three-month degressivity of the benefit is frozen. Access to the temporary unemployment system for reasons of force majeure has also been extended to those unemployed who have not yet had access to the ordinary unemployment benefit. I share your concern about the plight of young people. In order to answer this question, the period during which a young person is eligible for integration benefits is also extended by three months. However, as far as their chances in the labour market are concerned, I must refer you back to the regions. Since the sixth reform of the State, they have had the main instruments to implement a policy on target groups for young people or other groups experiencing difficulties in the labour market. The granting of scholarships is also not within my jurisdiction, nor is it a federal jurisdiction. As regards the payment of Easter Monday during the period of temporary unemployment, the provisions of the Royal Decree of 18 April 1974 laying down general rules for the implementation of the Law of 4 January 1974 on public holidays are applicable. The worker is entitled to the payment of public holidays which fall within a period of fourteen days following the commencement of the suspension of the performance of the employment contract, on grounds of force majeure. This is also the case for part-time employment schemes in the context of temporary unemployment. In this case, there is no reference to a single and continuous period of suspension, but the days of suspension alternate with the days of work. In this case, the above rule shall be applied to each new suspension because of force majeure. The rule applies to both workers and servants and continues to apply during this crisis period. Public holidays which fall on a normal day of activity within a scheme of partial employment under temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure are, of course, simply retained as a public holiday, at the expense of the employer. The issue of guaranteed earnings in the event of illness during temporary unemployment is still before the social partners. It is also discussed with Minister De Block. In reply to the question on the level of temporary unemployment benefit, I can say the following. The percentage of benefits has been increased from 65% to 70% for all forms of TW. In addition, a flat rate of EUR 5.63 per day of temporary unemployment due to force majeure borne by the RVA is added. In addition, there are no social contributions due to unemployment benefit. In the case of ordinary wages, 13.07 % is deducted from personal social security contributions. In agreement with my colleague in the Finance Committee, an amendment to a draft tax bill was also accepted. The withholding tax on temporary unemployment benefits is reduced to 15%. This has been discussed extensively here in Parliament. This will mean a greater retention of purchasing power for the temporary unemployed with low wages. With the farm tax of 26.75 %, the difference between net benefit and net wage has so far been large. There are no further plans to increase benefits. At present, the priority is to restart economic activity. At the same time, the use of temporary unemployment will decrease. I think, however, that I have given sufficient clarity on this in response to the first questions. Interim workers working exclusively with day-to-day contracts and who did not sign an agreement before 13 March 2020 cannot therefore benefit from temporary unemployment. These workers are not in a situation comparable to that of temporary workers who work on successive weekly contracts as part of a longer job with the user. Workers who are no longer linked to an employment contract and to whom no new employment contract is proposed may apply for full unemployment benefits. With regard to full unemployment, a number of initiatives have been taken to ensure the maintenance of benefits during this crisis, such as the temporary freeze of the degressivity and the extension of the three months of the basic duty to benefit. Until 30 April, a total of 901.578 temporary unemployed persons received a temporary unemployment benefit for the month of March. These payments are divided among the payout institutions as follows: 278,740 were paid by the ADVV, 302,163 by the ACV, 79,651 by the ACLBV and 26,024 by the Auxiliaries. Payment institutions shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Royal Decree of 16 September 1991 on the basis of regular files submitted for the purpose of the volume of work. The administrative costs are the same for temporary unemployment as for ordinary unemployment benefits. For the period 2016-2019 I can provide you with an overview of the interventions of the RVA in the administration costs of the four payout institutions, together with the average cost per file. I will deliver this to the chairman of the committee later. Then we go to slide 2 on the temporary unemployment of artists and event industry. There were also several questions from Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Matz and Mr Anseuw, among others. Since the start of the corona crisis, special attention has been given to the specific situation of workers in the artistic sector and the event sector. As you know, the artist claiming unemployment already has a very exceptional status of benefit compared to ordinary job seekers. This is often called the status artist. The job seeker with artistic services is much more easily admitted to unemployment. The benefits granted to the job seeker under the benefit scheme artist, 60%, are hardly subject to degressivity. This level of benefits may be renewed annually on the basis of three benefits in the preceding 12 months. In the Royal Decree published at the Moniteur belge on 30 April 2020, I took specific measures for artists, taking into account the impact of the Corona crisis on activities. The preferential regime for artists has thus been further strengthened. The reference periods necessary to prove artistic performance, to be admitted to unemployment on the one hand and to maintain the level of benefit at 60% on the other, have each been extended by three months. The months of April to June will be neutralized. This measure is an equal treatment for every job seeker, since the reference period has been individually extended for everyone by the period from April to June. I know that there are further questions, but my cabinet has had very intense consultations with representatives of these sectors and with the administration in recent weeks. In view of the exceptional circumstances of cancellation or prohibition of events by order of the government as part of the health measures, I have decided to open temporary unemployment also to workers in the event sector and the arts sector under the following conditions. It must be an event cancelled or prohibited by the public authorities because of the ban on the gathering of spectators or participants. The event was scheduled to take place between May 1 and August 31, 2020. The worker should have been employed under a contract of employment, whatever the function. The worker's request and the employer's declaration must show that the worker's event and recruitment with a contract of employment had already been planned since before April 15, 2020. This must be the result of written evidence of any kind (offers, programs, emails, etc.) dated before April 15, 2020, which are attached to the worker's application. For a worker who does not carry out an artistic activity, the application must be accompanied by proof that the worker was employed in the course of a similar event during the reference period, from May to August of the previous year. Here we offer an answer to the many questions. Many of you said it took a long time, but it wasn't easy either. The sector is very diverse, including artists, organizers of events, lighting technicians, camera people, stage builders, caterers and communication specialists. These people may also have an employee status, a self-employed status or an artist's status. This complex group is represented by more than twenty organisations. We have now agreed with the RVA that as soon as they can prove that a contract would have been carried on in normal circumstances in the period up to the end of August, they will be admitted to temporary unemployment for that period. That proof does not have to be a contract of employment, it can also be a program or brochure or e-mail traffic in which this is confirmed. Of course, this will require efforts because the burden of proof will have to be examined in each individual file. However, this is an important step which responds to the many questions raised by the sector. It will also be important to carry out controls. For example, there will be checks on cases where there is a significant increase in the number of employment days compared to the number of days indicated in previous years. The RVA is currently unable to provide an overview of the number of surveys in the event sector or of the number of people receiving benefits in this sector. Finally, I would like to stress that the balance must always be maintained between the advantages granted to the relatively limited group of artists and people active in the event sector and the much stricter rules applicable to ordinary job seekers. Then I come to slide 3: Safe to work. There are questions on this by Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mr De Vuyst, Mrs Moscufo, Mr Bihet and Mrs Leroy. The social partners and the Group of Ten are involved in various ways in the government policy developed in this crisis situation. In order to assist enterprises in the context of the gradual resumption of economic activities, the social partners of the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work, my strategic unit and the experts of the SPF Emploi prepared, in consultation, a generic guide. This guide provides a framework of measures that can be adapted by the sectors and by each employer to ensure that activities can resume in the safest and healthier conditions possible. The members of the Group of Ten have taken part in this work and undertake to disseminate it and recommend it to their members. They have therefore asked the Chairman of the National Labour Council to deliver the guide to the Chairmen of the Joint Committees working on it. Be assured, I have found that a great deal of work has been done on this. The President of the National Labour Council and I have responded to this question, with the mobilizer message to facilitate the discussions at sectoral level and to increase the level of support on the ground. In the exit process, the guide and any sectoral additions mainly have a mobilizing function and a reference function. They are therefore not subject to a test by my administration. However, the experts of the Inspection TWW are available to support the chairman of the Joint Committee during the consultation on the preparation of sector guides. Many sectors have already provided a sectoral supplement to the Guide. The same has happened following the opening of shops and retail next Monday. A link to the guides – generic and sectoral – can be found on the Employment FPS website. It is clear that these guides are very important to sectors and businesses so that they can restart or continue their activities safely. Ultimately, it is also up to the companies themselves to take appropriate preventive measures by translating input from the generic guide and sectoral guidelines into the concrete business context. In doing so, they can draw on the expertise of both internal and external prevention advisors. In addition, they must consult regularly with the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work and, if there is no committee, with the trade union delegation and, in the absence thereof, with the workers themselves. In this way, they can increase the acceptance and follow-up of the measures. As a starting point for safe working conditions, it is important to continue to use, as far as possible, telework for all workers whose functions allow it, and to comply with the social distancing rules as much as possible. The generic guide therefore provides guidelines for achieving social distancing in the work context as optimally as possible. However, if this is not possible everywhere, the guide shall provide the necessary inspiration for possible preventive measures of a collective or individual nature to provide workers with an equivalent level of protection. Ultimately, it is the employer's responsibility to take these appropriate preventive measures and to ensure that they are complied with by his employees and by third parties in the company. Slide 4 is about safe work. Here are questions from Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Willaert, Mr Goblet, Mr Bihet, Mr Boukili and Mr De Vuyst, Mrs Moscufo and Mrs Leroy. If the employee does not feel safe and considers that his employer has not taken sufficient measures to prevent the spread of COOVID-19 at work, it is appropriate that he contacts his prevention advisor and possibly also the Welfare Inspectorate at the Work of the FOD WASO. Complaints to the inspection cannot be made anonymously, but the inspection does not have the right to disclose the complainant's name, for example, to the employer, except in the case of the complainant's explicit consent. The inspector will then decide how to deal with the complaint based on the circumstances and the seriousness of the facts. When the inspection was overwhelmed with questions and complaints at the beginning of the crisis, the choice was to first of all, in the case of a complaint, review the checklist by telephone with the prevention advisor and ask for feedback, including to the complainant. In case of doubt or negative feedback from the complainant that the cases do not improve, the case will be put on the spot. Proportionally, more on-the-spot checks are now being carried out than at the beginning, with 20% on-the-spot visits versus remote checks, which increased to 55%. As far as monitoring is concerned, I can give the following figures for the period 23 March to 30 April 2020. The inspection recorded 1,341 corona-related complaints. There were 1,142 remote checks via a checklist that is overflowing by phone and available online on the website of the FOD WASO. An on-the-spot check was carried out at 986 employers' premises. A total of 736 employers received a warning, 88 employers were given a time limit to set themselves as a rule, 8 projusti's were made up and 34 companies closed at the request of the inspection. The inspection shall take place on the basis of the Social Criminal Code which provides for the following actions. A warning is a notification to the employer that he has committed an infringement of the regulations. The inspector may also impose a time limit. Depending on the seriousness of the infringement, the employer will then be re-checked. In the event of serious or repeated infringements, the inspector may take more stringent measures, such as the preparation of a report or the cessation of activity. For the Occupational Well-Being Inspection, the regulatory framework remains the welfare legislation, including protection against exposure to biological agents, combined with the public policy rules imposed by the government. It is this service that controls prevention measures inspired by the generic guide and sector guides taken in companies to prevent the spread of VOCID-19 in the workplace. In this context, necessary briefings on these preventive measures were also given to the inspectors so that this could be done in a uniform manner. In order to carry out the checks, they have access to jobs. However, if the place of employment is an occupied place, as is the case with domestic helpers, access under Article 24 of the Social Criminal Code is only possible, for example, in a situation of red tape, or a call from the occupied space or with the consent of the person living there. TWW Social Inspection will have 16 employees on 1 May 2020. At the beginning of July there will be 3 more inspectors and 8 more vacancies, for which the procedure is currently under way. Because we consider the safety of workers and the non-dissemination of COVID-19 to be important through work, I would like to work with the competent ministers to extend the inspection capacity exceptionally by also deploying inspectors from other inspection services, such as the Monitoring of Social Laws, Fedris, RSZ and RVA, to monitor the measures. Since it is a matter of criminal jurisdiction, it must be a good legal basis. We want to ensure this through a proxy decision, which will be taken as soon as possible. Slide 5 also deals with the issue of safety at work, on which questions were raised by colleagues Gilkinet and Leroy. The prevention of exposure of workers to biological agents is carried out in Belgium within the framework of the Code of Welfare at Work, which is based on European directives. The decision to add coronavirus to the list of biological agents, which is subdivided into four risk groups, is therefore currently under discussion at European level. The consensus in the countries around us seems to be to classify this virus in Group 3. This is also Sciensano's position, and it is also the opinion expressed by the Belgian experts at their meeting in late April. SARS and MERS have already been classified in Group 3, according to European Directive 2019/1833 of 24 August 2019. According to the definition, group 3 viruses can cause a serious disease while group 4 viruses such as Ebola almost always cause a serious disease. However, 80% of people with coronovirus have only mild to moderate upper respiratory tract infections. For about 10%, the infection takes place even without symptoms. People over the age of 65 or those suffering from underlying diseases are more likely to become seriously ill. At present, the mortality rate of coronavirus is about 3 to 4%, while group 4 viruses continue to cause serious disorder and have a high mortality rate (between 25 and 90%). Finally, the protective measures that a group 4 virus would entail would significantly reduce our screening capacity, while large-scale screening is very important to slow down the spread in the population. We have come to slide 6 on corona parents' leave, on which Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Dedonder, Mrs Samyn, Mrs Willaert, Mrs Leroy and Mrs Moscufo have asked questions. On my proposal, the Council of Ministers decided to temporarily provide for an additional balance for parental leave for the months of May and June. Initially, it was intended to limit the measure to single parents. However, I have extended the measure so that all parents with children up to 12 years of age are eligible for leave, as in ordinary parental leave. For the parents of children with disabilities, the age condition expires. It is new that foster parents can also benefit from the temporary scheme. Since this week, economic restart has begun. In order to cater for parents who are returning to work, an initiative to combine work and care had to be developed in a context where reception facilities were not yet fully developed and schools and grandparents could not yet be recruited. Corona parental leave applies to both the public and private sectors. The measure can be activated by the competent level for statutory staff at the level of local and provincial governments, the Communities and the Regions. We know that the Flemish government is already working on this. Corona parental leave may be taken with a fifth or half-time break by full-time workers. Whoever is employed 75% or more will also be able to record the half-time interruption. This is always done with the agreement of the employer, either in one consecutive period or per month, or in one or more consecutive periods of one week. Because this measure is part of the relaunch of economic life, we have chosen those opportunities. We would like to point out that there are other ways of interrupting careers such as holidays, social leave and others. This possibility is on top of that. The employer cannot refuse normal parental leave, but can postpone it by six months. If we were to follow the normal rules, then there would also be a need for an employer's reply in the facts. That is why, for the sake of clarity, we have explicitly included in the text that the employer must consent and can therefore refuse. In addition, we consider it justified to carry out a review in the workplace with a view to achieving a balance in the start-up of the company and the employee's private situation. There are no costs for the employer when using corona parental leave. On the contrary, he does not have to pay part of the wage at that time. We therefore assume that there will be no unnecessary refusal. For this corona parental leave, the existing allowances are increased by 25%. The increased allowances already applicable to regular parental leave are also taken into account for single workers with children. If, among other things, the opinion of the Council of State shows that there are still difficulties in changing from other forms of career break to care for children, such as the time-credit, we will make the necessary adjustments to our text. The proportion of single parents taking ordinary parental leave is indeed relatively low. The figure is about 5%. We note, however, that the share of single parents entering the one-tenth scheme, which we have recently introduced, is higher, almost 9%. The share of single people has also increased. The increase in the benefit that we have provided for that group is probably related to the implementation of the welfare envelope for single people in parental leave, and there is a positive trend. The proposed scheme also provides for a derogation in respect of seniority conditions. Unlike ordinary parental leave, which is subject to a 12-month seniority condition, the worker must have at least one month's seniority in order to be able to take a corona parental leave. A worker who reduces his benefits by a fifth or half in the context of corona parental leave is thus entitled to the status of a part-time worker, which means that, on the basis of Article 11a of the Law of 3 July 1978, the parties must conclude a written part-time contract containing the agreed working arrangements and the timetable at the latest at the time of the start of the part-time employment. In doing so, the parties will be able to agree on a distribution of benefits in accordance with the employee's needs for reception and pre-teaching. The question of whether similar support will be provided to the self-employed who may be able to reopen their trade from 11 May 2020 goes beyond my competence and should be asked to Minister Ducrame, particularly competent for the self-employed. A possible extension of the measure is foreseen if the Council of Ministers so decides. The extension will depend on factors which cannot yet be foreseen and which do not belong to our powers, such as whether the summer camps can continue or whether the grandparents can take care of them. Finally, it is useful to mention that the draft decision on powers of attorney is before the Council of State. As I have just mentioned, we may have to make a few minor adjustments. However, we hope for a publication early next week. On slide 7 I tried to combine a number of other questions. These are questions from Mrs Thémont, Mrs Samyn, Mrs Schlitz, Mrs Willaert, Mr Bertels and Mrs Leroy. Firstly, the seafarers employed under Belgian social security have a special employment status and a specific social security system. There are certain parallels to the regular workers' system. However, there are also details. The principle is relatively simple: sailors have a contract for the duration of the door-to-door journey, from the moment they leave their homes until they return. During each day of this period, they are dependent on the shipowner and are entitled to a salary, even in the event of incapacity for work, as well as compensation leave thereafter. If a person cannot board a ship, he or she may be entitled to stand-by compensation from the shipowner. Due to the exceptional situation caused by COOVID-19, some seafarers are unintentionally unemployed, but some shipowners are also in the involuntary impossibility of having them signed up. Therefore, the pool has decided that in this case the seafarers concerned are also entitled to a waiting fee, without the standby fee of the shipowner. All performance during the journey, shift work, if any additional hours and any delay in the journey due to weather conditions shall be taken into account together at the end of the journey and treated in the same way and socially and fiscally. In other words, there is no notion of overtime as it exists in the regular employee system. On 14 April 2020, the Group of Ten reached an agreement to use, during the period of the Corona crisis, a new model medical certificate. This model should make it possible to better distinguish sick people from those who, without being ill, should remain at home in quarantine. A provision that translates this question from the social partners into legislation is included in our new draft power of attorney decision, which is currently being discussed within the government. This new model will not be able to be introduced retroactively. From a legal point of view, it is not allowed to anticipate a medical assessment. With regard to the extension of testing capacity and the target group of persons who can be tested, I refer to Minister De Backer, who is responsible for this. Where workers do not appear to be ill or belong to a group which, because of certain risks, must remain in quarantine at home, they may, of course, continue to work in so far as their holding is not temporarily closed because of the current corona measures. Thirdly, with regard to the coincidence of temporary unemployment and illness, two scenarios may arise. Firstly, if the worker is already ill before the period of temporary unemployment begins, the implementation of the contract of employment will continue to be suspended for incapacity for work as long as the illness lasts. On the basis of Article 56 of the contract of employment, the employed person is not entitled to a guaranteed wage during a period of temporary unemployment. He'll be able to claim sickness benefits. The implementation of the right to guaranteed wages for employees is currently the subject of consultation between the social partners of the Group of Ten and the National Labour Council. If necessary, this issue will be further discussed within the government. It is important that the guaranteed wage is in any case maintained for the days of illness preceding temporary unemployment. Employers are not allowed to re-enter temporary unemployment in order to deny sick workers their right to guaranteed wages for the days of illness prior to the effective date of entry into temporary unemployment in the undertaking. In addition, it is not possible to place only disabled workers in temporary unemployment in an enterprise, as this would mean legal abuse. Scenario 2. If the worker becomes ill after a period of temporary unemployment has taken effect, the implementation of the contract of employment shall continue to be suspended for the duration of the period of temporary unemployment. The worker concerned will be entitled to sickness benefit for that period. In their agreement of 14 April 2020, the social partners in the Group of Ten agreed to introduce a reporting obligation for the employer invoking temporary unemployment. The employer will have to notify the worker of this at the latest the day before the entry into force of the temporary unemployment. This provision was incorporated into a new draft power of attorney decision, which is currently being discussed within the government. This provision will exclude abuse by employers who, on receipt of a notification of incapacity for work, placed the worker concerned in temporary unemployment on the same day. Finally, as regards the situation of workers placed in quarantine without any symptoms of illness, account should be taken of the medical assessment given on the certificate issued by the doctor treating the worker. If at the time of the medical examination the attending physician determines that the worker is actually suffering from coronavirus, he may declare the worker incapacitated for work at that time. If, on the other hand, the doctor considers that the worker is not affected, but that he must stay at home for safety reasons, the performance of the contract will be suspended because of temporary force majeure, as long as this situation persists. Then I'll get maternity leave. As already explained in plenary last week, I am preparing a measure which equates the days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure, since the beginning of this crisis, with working periods, so that postnatal leave can be extended to these days. In particular, the days covered by the optional prenatal leave are not the mandatory rest of one week. In addition, we also provide for an equalization of the days of incapacity for work of the pregnant worker during this period. This measure is also included in a new draft Special Powers Order currently under discussion within the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to the final questions concerning people with disabilities and the fight against poverty. These are the last slides, namely 8 and 9. There was a question from Mr Bertels on integration. The calculation shall distinguish between effective labour income and replacement income. A specific exemption applies to both categories of income, as you point out. The temporary unemployment benefit will, where appropriate, only have an impact on the integration of decisions having an effect from 1 January 2021 at the earliest. In order to avoid the possible negative impact of temporary unemployment on the right of integration, I have had my administration prepare a proposal to amend the legislation, which I will submit to the Council of Ministers. This proposal provides for the temporary unemployment allowance to be assimilated to the income from work in respect of the exemption. The measure shall ensure that the equivalence is valid for the entire period of corona. Then I come to slide 9, on the fight against poverty. In this regard, questions were asked by Ms Rohonyi, Ms Thémont and Ms Lanjri. Like all persons in Belgium, prostitutes can benefit from social assistance and/or the right to social integration, depending on their residence permit. The activity that these persons would carry out is not a prohibition on the granting of the aid. They can therefore always benefit from assistance from social workers of CPAS who are specifically trained not to stigmatise any person, regardless of their quality. For prostitutes who are believed to be illegally staying in our territory, urgent medical assistance is always available to them. In addition, for the latter category, it is important to point out that there is still protection issued with regard to trafficking in human beings. The COOVID-19 health crisis is also in danger of becoming a social crisis. That's why the federal government has decided to set up a task force for Vulnerable Groups. A detailed analysis of the situation is now being carried out together with the regions, experts and civil society. Solutions are being sought for the problems and difficulties faced by vulnerable people. We have already taken some measures and allocated a budget to support the OMCWs and the food banks. Several vulnerable groups find the way to CPAS. The difficulties they face are discussed in collaboration with the three CPAS federations. Attention is also drawn to problems that can sustain in the longer term, such as the increase in overdue invoices and the increase in debts. My colleague, Mr Ducarme, and I are looking at how to support CPAS that have to deal with the greater needs of vulnerable people, whether they are already existing beneficiaries or new beneficiaries. The Task Force consists of the Federal Ministers for Combating Poverty, Social Integration and Social Affairs and the Regional Ministers for Poverty and Social Action. The Task Force is assisted by the Working Group on Social Impact COVID-19. It is composed of representatives of the administrations and provides technical and scientific analyses. In addition, there is a consultation group that provides relevant input from the field and consists of experts and civil society organisations. They have a lot of information through their regional networks and local associations. The task force's political group will then examine which proposals are given priority, but also how to strengthen the different policy levels with a view to effective action. There are four vulnerable groups which are considered as priorities by the consultation group, in particular temporary workers, flexi-jobbers, job students and people with disabilities. In this first phase, the Task Force decided to further investigate additional support at the level of OMCWs and assistance to persons with disabilities. A possible accumulation between a disability benefit and a temporary unemployment benefit will be examined. It was also decided that parental leave should be provided for parents with dependent children who cannot be accommodated in the centres currently closed. Civil society also asked to extend mortgage credit measures to consumer credit repayment conditions. Therefore, a bill has been tabled which extends to three months for families with income losses due to the corona crisis, also for payment of consumer credit. At present we end the exercise with the task force to make a list of all possible initiatives. Of course, this will also be a budgetary question. That too is what we are trying to map now, and we hope to be able to clarify it from the different powers over the next few days. After all, the questions are more than justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u25	Madam Minister, I asked a question about the increase in benefits and the allowance for those who receive a living wage. I saw something about this at your power point presentation, but you did not explain it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u26	I answered Mrs. Lanjri. But there was a lot of information, so we have to find ourselves there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u27	I would remind you that this is a topical debate. So if we want a line again, it's possible. The minister gave me the full notes of her explanations. We'll give you quick access. We now turn to the replicas. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u28	Minister, thank you for all your answers and for this very enlightening PowerPoint. As far as the social situation of prostitutes is concerned, I am really relieved to hear you confirm that they are entitled to social assistance but also to urgent medical assistance when they are in an irregular stay. The problem is that this right exists in theory but that it is difficult to access in practice because there is an obstacle to seeking assistance. In this regard, I believe that a great deal of awareness-raising work will have to be done with the federated entities. As far as the rules on social distancing and hygiene are concerned, I mean the figures you have presented on the checks carried out, but also on the penalties imposed. I would also like to hear from you about the rules as such that have not been respected by companies. If you could give us a detailed breakdown of these by type of measures that have not been complied with. Is this more about social distancing or hygiene measures or both? I would also like to hear from you about the measures taken to make companies aware of these rules, particularly with regard to the resumption of work in B2B and B2C companies. Is the GEES now proposing a clear and, above all, concerted strategy with the unions in this regard? I think it is really important to make companies understand that compliance with the rules is in everyone's interest. It is in the interests of the workers, because of their good health, but also in the interests of the companies, since a rebound in the pandemic would be catastrophic for our economy as a whole, but also because an employee who falls ill after the return to work should benefit from the minimum wage guaranteed by the employers. Finally, I intend that the Labour Inspectorate will have 168 employees on 1 May to carry out the checks, but also that staff from other departments will be able to support them in this task, which requires a legal basis. It is currently being drafted. This is an excellent thing, but I would have liked to have more details on this approach. When do you think this legal basis will be ready? What services will be requested? Can you tell us how many people you may be interested in? As far as independent journalists are concerned, I have not heard anything about this. It is true that I did not have a question before. A great deal of work has to be done at their level because the crisis strikes them with full force. Many media directorates have reduced the number of their collaborators or even ended collaborations with most independent journalists. I would have liked to hear from you about the situation of journalists, particularly with regard to their access to bridge law. It is up to us that either they are not entitled to it because they are independent on a complementary basis, or the mechanism is not adapted to their situation because their activity must be able to stop for a minimum of seven days, which does not correspond to the practice of a journalist. I would like to know if there is any cooperation with your colleague, Mr Ducarme, on this matter. Finally, with regard to temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure due to coronavirus, the initiatives are positive, but I would have liked to hear from you about the measures put in place to temporarily suspend dismissals, which encourage the companies concerned to resort to temporary unemployment. Indeed, the problem is that, even today, despite this increased possibility of resorting to temporary unemployment, some companies speculate that they will not maintain employment and therefore proceed to redundancies, a situation which must be avoided as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u29	Mrs. Thémont, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. For my part, I am glad to hear you say, in particular, about the abuses related to guaranteed wages or about the consultants' more specific subject, that the complaints received are dealt with seriously and that you will judge severely the companies that fraud. I would like to stress your work here. Nevertheless, I am surprised to see that, in practice, problems persist. On Wednesday, you will have read that the FGTB has found many cases of employers who, despite the severe measures you apply, use temporary unemployment to avoid paying this guaranteed wage. And I'll even go further and do a little extrapolation. It is not normal for some employers to even divert legal prescriptions by putting workers under pressure, individually, and by requiring them to sign a return to work declaration that removes the employer in the event of illness or health problems related to the lack of safety measures. I also heard your answer about temporary unemployment. It should also be borne in mind that the current health crisis will have socio-economic consequences that will go far beyond the presence of the virus in our society. Moreover, temporary unemployment for force majeure is probably a good solution to prevent companies from drinking broth too quickly in a crisis like this. But for some workers who are already usually at the limit of survival, it's another mess. Let us not forget that, for someone who works part-time, the allowance is extremely low and so many people feel left behind by the government during this period. I think that sometimes we need to put people at the centre of our concerns rather than the economy. With regard to my question on young graduates, I am happy to hear some relaxations on your part, particularly with regard to the extension of the period for granting integration allowances. Many points seem to be the responsibility of the Regions, which must not be forgotten. With regard to household purchasing power, CPAS and food banks must be supported. I also note that a task force has been set up and that field staff have been consulted. I had also asked your colleague Mr Ducarme about the budget that he made available to the CPAS. I think that this envelope will have to be reviewed, which will not be sufficient after the crisis. People who now earn 70% of a salary that was already low will find themselves in difficulty. More and more requests will be made to the CPAS after this crisis, and we will have to pay attention to the finances of our communes. Madam Minister, you said that four groups had been identified: temporary workers, flexijobs, students and persons with disabilities. This is a good start, but it must be seen that poverty affects many more people in Belgium. This is the case for very low-income or workless families, who are poorly housed or not housed, and who are also isolated. These families were barely able to make ends meet before the epidemic and are at risk of collapse. As you said, you are in contact with the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network, which can inform you. You answered me about the situation of the interims. The temporary work sector lost 45 per cent of its activity in a few weeks. This represents 54,000 full-time equivalents, more or less 300,000 jobs. The temporary work sector has been severely affected by the crisis and the entry into confinement of enterprises. This is normal, since temporary work is traditionally used as a valve. When the economy goes well, employers start by hiring temporary workers. Conversely, when the economy gets bogged down, they start by thanking them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u31	Mrs. Thémont, would it be possible for you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u32	That's my last sentence. I conclude by saying that these interims are already penalized in a normal context, and that they deserve, in my view, more support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u33	Thank you for your comprehensive explanation and the many answers to the many questions. It is, of course, an unseen situation in Belgium and the measures taken by the government can be seen as a learning process: one has to start somewhere. I understand, therefore, that not everything can be on the right track immediately. But it's not wrong to think about the next phase in time. That is why I have a number of questions about how to do it during a possible transition period and after the corona measures. You have already taken a hint of the veil, because you claim to choose a balance between creating sufficient breathing space for businesses and safeguarding employment as much as possible, on the one hand, and avoiding abuse as much as possible, which you will also tackle. For the transitional period, you are putting forward a number of principles, although it is not clear to me today what this will mean in concrete terms for the different sectors. I also understand that it is your ambition to extend to 31 August 2020 the arrangement on temporary unemployment established for the corona crisis by force majeure. This allows everyone to buy time for a good restart of the activities. A lot of companies are starting up right now. I understand from your explanation that it is not the intention of the companies to call on the COOVID-19 scheme for temporary unemployment due to force majeure once they are restarted. A transitional phase is and will continue to be a transitional phase, so I assume that it will not be implemented overnight from today to tomorrow. I have also asked a number of questions about events and aviation, among others. The event sector is characterised by its own teams, its own culture and its own contracts of employment, among other things in terms of timing. Do I understand correctly that it is not necessarily necessary to be able to submit a contract of employment in order to benefit from temporary unemployment in the event sector? If that is the case, I should like to express my concern about this, because it increases the risk of abuse or misuse slightly more than when an effective contract of employment has to be submitted which has been concluded in good time. I do not want to be blind to the particularities of a particular sector, but we must try to avoid misuse as much as possible. As far as the aviation sector is concerned, the only conclusion I can draw from your reply today is that you are working on a transitional phase and that it is your ambition to extend the current situation of temporary unemployment at least until 31 August and that we will see afterwards what this means in practice for different sectors. I'm rounding up. It is important that we always seek a balance between providing sufficient breathing space on the one hand and not opening the door to improper use and abuse on the other hand, which, for a good understanding, are two distinct things, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating, especially as regards the concrete impact on different sectors, which have their own particularities and challenges. We will continue to follow it very closely in the near future and have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u34	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you once again for the very comprehensive answer you have given today. I'd like to deal with three pieces. The first is social security. It's true that people are eager to get back to work. People want to get back to work, albeit in safe conditions. This is the responsibility of the employer. I see that many employers are doing their best. However, from your figures, still 1,341 complaints and 34 company closures in one week, I conclude that further attention needs to be paid to safety at work. Despite your efforts and the efforts of the social partners to draw up a guide, I see that in some sectors the consultation on sub-sector protocols is simply refused. For example, the transport sector does not deal with the consultation and the theme park sector either. Certain joint committees in the metal sector also refuse to do so. I just think it is essential, if we are to succeed in making people work in safe conditions, to continue negotiating sectoral protocols and even business-level protocols on the basis of that guide. As a result of the imminent reopening of the shops, I note from incoming signals that various employers believe that telework is no longer necessary. Such cases are taking place. It looks like a general relaxation, while the relaxation is aimed at re-launching the economy in safe conditions. That is why I urge that inspection services be expanded as soon as possible. This is important for small businesses, where there is little or no consultation, so that enforcement can be ensured in those companies. However, I repeat, on the other hand, that for those sectors which do not include consultation, the aim is to continue to implement this guide so that workers feel safe at work. Secondly, on parental leave, I am naturally pleased that it has been extended to all parents. The combination of work, pre-teaching and education of the children is pretty hellish. Of course, I would have preferred parental leave to be a right. After all, I get emails from parents who say that it is simply refused and they do not know how to organize everything. The fact that leave can be taken up flexibly can be a response to the problems of parents in co-parenting but also to the problems of shiftworkers. The children cannot go to the grandparents and the shelter is simply not open at these flexible hours. That is where I am satisfied with your answer. Finally, I would also like to talk about the event sector. There was also a general demand for a renewal of a number of measures, including to accommodate more people, taking into account also the specific circumstances in which the event sector operates. They are very creative people, but they are not always as good administratively. Many oral agreements are often made, which are respected, but are only put on paper at the last minute. It's a good thing they're being taken in. Yesterday, I again received the signal that some RVA firms again refuse to grant temporary unemployment while in the sector it is customary to work with day-to-day contracts in proportion to two days a week. I got the signal yesterday. So I don't know what to do with that. I would like to repeat my general appeal. I would like to ask that we invite the event sector to a hearing, just because of their specificity and diversity. Every time I talk to them, I learn. You always give the impression that this sector merely calls for additional support and resources from the public authorities, whereas this sector indicates that it wants to be very creative, to have a perspective and to want to get back to work. In some cases, people work with different scenarios abroad. They say they want to make their expertise available for other purposes. For example, they are supplying extra toilets and washbasins to Flemish schools, for the sake of social distancing. They want to do so for other sectors as well. They say they specialize in crowdcontrol. This is very important for compliance with social distancing. So they want to use all their creativity, as far as possible in safe conditions. Nor are we always aware of what can and what they are doing there. So I would like to insist once again on this hearing with the event sector and with the artistic sector, so that we can get on with their proposals. Finally, I welcome the serious handling of fraud involving temporary unemployment. It is true that once again we are talking about a minority. In any case, I find it inconceivable that people should only come up with the idea of using such systems of solidarity during this health crisis. We can only get through this together. If you can let workers work telework, let them work telework. This solidarity must not be abused.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for the comprehensive explanation. I would just like to touch on a few aspects. The work of seafarers is exhausting and requires a lot of energy. Apart from the social aspect that seafarers want to see their families, their safety is also important. I am therefore pleased that measures have been taken for those who are still sailing and for those who remain at home. They are now entitled to watch money. I also welcome the fact that fraud is being dealt with because it is certainly not the intention to abuse the system of temporary unemployment. The travel sector has been hit very hard and we do not yet have a view of the travel restrictions in the different countries. It is not even clear when we will be able to travel again in our own country. Air traffic is still worldwide and group trips and cruises have been cancelled well into the autumn. Several countries in the southern hemisphere fear that the corona virus will only know its peak in their winter. So it is coffee-diving to see when and under what conditions there will be traveling. You spoke of a transitional arrangement currently being developed for the period after 30 June with regard to the extension of temporary unemployment. Especially for the travel sector, it will be necessary to be able to apply that system until the end of next year. As far as corona leave is concerned, there is currently no separation between work and family life for many home workers. There is a feeling that the employer should be there at all times and be ready. So I can only welcome the introduction of corona leave. I am also pleased to learn that there are no age conditions for children with disabilities. That is very important for the parents because it is already very difficult to raise such a child. Even when they have reached the age of 21, it remains a difficult task for parents. It is a good thing that foster parents now have the right to apply for corona leave. But what about the self-employed? They cannot apply for corona leave. There is still a threshold for applicants and I hope that the regulation will be clearly communicated to employers, especially on the aspect of the absence of additional costs for the employer. In some cases, it remains difficult for the worker to apply for this leave as it is not a right. It may not be rejected, but it is not a right. I therefore hope that this regulation will certainly be properly communicated with employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u36	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive answer to our many different questions. I understand you can't go into the smallest detail. Thank you in advance for setting up the Vulnerable Groups Task Force with Minister Ducarme. I insisted on this last month and in the meantime it has come together a number of times. They indicated to me the problem that a number of organisations are not involved. I understand that the group should be limited, but perhaps it is an option to work with people who are invited to ad hoc. When it comes to homeless people, people from the homeless sector can be invited to the advisory group. It is also a good thing, Madam Minister, that you will look at and calculate what all these proposals cost and what can be implemented. I also wondered what would happen to the proposals that have not yet been discussed. It is particularly important to speed up the Vulnerable Groups Task Force and not to delay too many meetings, which has already been done. For people who get the ends hard to tie together, each day delay is a day too much. Not only do I see that life is becoming more expensive and that the invoices are rising. The OCMW gets a huge influx of new groups of people asking for support. That group will only grow in the coming months. Today, the OMCWs in the newspapers are calling on the government, the Prime Minister, especially you, Madam Minister, and Mr Ducarme, not to forget the forgotten group of people who are currently not eligible for additional benefits. These are people who receive a living wage, people with low incomes because they work part-time, for example, or because they are interim, people with disabilities and so on. That is why I think their proposal to increase their benefit to that group is justified. These benefits are very often below the poverty line today. It is really important that we continue to work on this in a structural manner. In the short term, however, at least something can be done for this group, for which life has become even more expensive, while they are already living in poverty. They therefore propose a temporary increase in all benefits, either automatically or through a targeted allowance through the OMCW. We must walk one of those two slopes. I fully support that. Madam Minister, I know that you have already done it for other groups, for example for those who end up in temporary unemployment, as you said earlier. Luckily, the benefit for them has been increased from 65% to 70%. So 5 % has been added. We must also do something for vulnerable groups. You have already identified four groups, but you must not forget wage-earners and part-time workers. Let us develop a kind of corona allowance for this target group through the OMCW. This will enable us to respond to rising prices. It can also be done by means of an automatic increase in their benefit. That would be very good, of course. I hope you really want to take this concern with you. I am sure you will do everything you can, together with your colleague Ducarme, not to forget this group. I hope that we will be able to reconnect at another time, when it is clearer what can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u37	Madam Minister, I am more than 50% satisfied with your answers, and that is already a good thing. First of all, your proposal for persons with disabilities with an integration dimension, who often work in tailor-made businesses and who have now been put to temporary unemployment by the corona crisis, to bring their temporary unemployment benefit into line with working income, seems to me to be a very good solution. We just have to do that, Madam Secretary. As we have allowed the accumulation of sickness benefits and temporary unemployment benefits for workers in tailor-made businesses, we also need to find a solution for that target group, so that they do not suffer a loss of purchasing power, because they have been reduced by the corona crisis. I therefore fully support your proposal. As sp.a, we certainly want to support it. We will also repeat the question to resolve the problem as soon as possible and to give security to persons with disabilities with integration. I call on you to make sure that proposal is implemented, Madam Secretary. Secondly, you have various scenarios relating to the guaranteed wage, for example of workers who become ill during their period of temporary unemployment or who have just become ill before, and you have outlined the use of the quarantine attestation. So there are solutions to these scenarios. At the same time, you admitted that there is no solution to some specific problems and referred to the consultation between the social partners, including in the NAR. That is indeed the beginning of a solution. You also noted that an agreement was reached in the Group of Ten and in the RIZIV Benefits Management Committee on the medical certificate and the obligation to notify, elements which are translated into the power of attorney decisions. However, you have forgotten an important element. Of the three agreements concluded, two are in progress, but one is not. I would ask you, if the Minister considers this social dialogue to be important and tries to honour it, to pay attention to the agreement between the social partners in the Group of Ten on the alignment of primary disability benefit, sickness benefit and temporary unemployment benefit. It is also very specific that, during this period of corona, we are talking about an increase of 70%. I am somewhat surprised that you refer to the first and the third parts of the agreement, but not to that second part. I would therefore ask you to work on this, together with Minister De Block, your colleague responsible for Social Affairs. I will save you the technical side of the capped wage, but I would ask you specifically to provide a benefit of up to 70%, as we have rightly done for temporary unemployment benefits. If you take that point with you, you will satisfy me completely. There is still a little work to be done, but I trust you will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u38	I am informed that the sound that comes from your home is not easy to follow by the interpreters. I am telling you this for the next work in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u39	Madam Secretary, do you understand English?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u40	I've got it all figured out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u41	Madam Secretary, I hope I can understand. I would like to return to four points of your detailed answer, because I would like to ask a number of further questions on this. The first concerns the submission of possible complaints to the Monitoring Welfare at Work. I'll come right to the point. Over the last few weeks, I have had to point out to some people the way to that service, because there are people at companies where there is no union representation or people who are not syndicated to file complaints anonymously. They tell me that they are afraid to lose their jobs or to have problems with their employer. I've always sent them to the Department of Social Welfare at Work, but I'm a little afraid of the answer these people get. I have here an e-mail in which people are first referred to the website. Then it says literally: "My service does not have the capacity to answer each question individually. It is the legal task of the internal prevention advisor." It then refers to the external prevention consultant and says that this information can be requested from the employer. I understand that not everything can always be individual, but I think that people should be better directed. There is sometimes no internal prevention consultant. If there are problems with the employer, it is impossible to ask about the external prevention advisor's data. I am therefore shocked by this answer and do not think it is okay with someone who wishes to signal something. When is a complaint a complaint? What should people do to make a complaint a complaint, an anonymous complaint? How can people even know where they can go, because I had to look pretty good myself? That's very important, isn't it? It's about people who are really scared at work. I would like some clarification on that. There was also the question about the extension of the inspection. You are taking a very good initiative, because it is all hands on deck. When can we expect the power of attorney decision? Do you have any idea of the number of additional inspectors to be deployed? Apart from corona times, we must also make a catch-up after the current period. The ILO calculates that we need 400 inspectors, which is three times more than is the case today. We have worked well together on corona parents' leave. It's a good thing it's finally getting there. Madam Secretary, I know you've been a party to this for some time now. Since I do not have a lot of speaking time, I would like to make one point. Today the news came from Minister Ducarme to install parental leave for self-employed workers, which is a good thing. However, I hear that the benefits are half higher than in such parental leave and up to three and a half times higher than in the time-credit payments with motive. The problem of single parents taking this leave will also require coordination with Minister Ducarme in order to have a fair remuneration of parental leave for self-employed workers. However, it is very good that the leave will be available. Finally, it is good that you take an initiative for maternity rest. You announced last week in plenary that the scheme will apply both to temporary unemployment and to sick days prior to childbirth. When can we expect the power of attorney decision? I know it is a decision of power of attorney, but I suppose the spirit of the scheme will be to settle that forever, to equate temporary unemployment and sick days to working days forever. As you know, in connection with these sick days, we are also discussing a legislative proposal here in committee. So when will the power of attorney be issued? It seems logical to me that the scheme can be settled forever and not just for the current corona period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u42	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed answers, while recalling the importance of sector-level agreements on the resumption of work in enterprises and of being particularly binding on employers. This is not the case today, since many still refuse this element of constraint. I would like to point out that there is a significant gap between the number of warnings, the number of regularisations, the number of minutes and the number of closures. From the moment we find that we are not in compliance with the rules in relation to the Code of Well-Being at Work, we need to go further than the mere warning and suspend business activities until they get in order. My intervention was intended to encourage more rigorous controls in companies. I ask the Minister to insist very strongly on the joint committees to ensure that the agreements that are reached are made binding and respected by the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u43	Madam President, I normally sit on another committee, but I am also entitled to one minute, if I understand correctly? Madam Secretary, the cultural sector will be very grateful to you. Not only for what you have done today, but also for the voucher that ensures that the entire culture sector can retain the funds of paid tickets to invest in the future. We know that these are mainly young people, young people who are very creative. I have two questions about this. What is the reason why you see the starting period from 1 May and not from 1 March? Does this include the whole media sector? I'm thinking about people working on movies. Will they be taken, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u44	Madam President, I would like to join my colleagues in thanking the Minister for her dense and comprehensive answers, given the number of questions and matters that have been covered. I would have liked to have more details on the inclusion of public holidays in the context of temporary unemployment, particularly for workers who are in temporary partial unemployment because they work several days a week. As far as artists are concerned, you have presented many points. The information you have provided us will have to be included in the thematic debate on the status of artists – which we hope will be as broad as possible and which will take place on 19 May. Finally, it is very complicated to react to your payment agency figures, as we took them on the fly based on a sound not always audible. Therefore, Madam Chair, can the Minister's presentation be sent out very quickly by e-mail to the members of the commission? In this way, we can bounce quickly. Otherwise, it's impossible. I'm done and thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u45	Mr Bihet, it will be done. We will quickly send the minister's notes. As we will see it again next week, you can prepare a follow-up, if you wish. Mrs Dedonder, since you asked your question earlier, you have a minute left for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Let me go back to parental leave. If I have understood correctly, knowing that I have been confronted with a number of cuts in sound, officials do not have access to them, the bullet being sent back to federated entities who are asked to create a specific leave of absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u47	Mrs.Dedonder, as I did not understand, perhaps the minister would have to repeat the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u48	Mrs.Dedonder, I made it clear that this leave is applicable to public servants. Indeed, the system has been put in place for both the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u49	What about the officials of the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u50	For them, the application of this system is also possible, if the federated entities legislate in this respect. We need a legal basis at this level. I think I know that Flanders has already done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u51	Thank you, Minister. That being said, I am still hungry for the amount of the compensation which is still insufficient and which, in my view, will be a barrier to corona parental leave, particularly for the less affluent families, bearing in mind that workers who are less than a 4/5 period of time are excluded from the right to this leave. It is explained that the objective of the measure is to reconcile work, private life, parental protection and child protection. In this case, let us go to the end of the process to leave no one on the side of the road and to ensure that this right is accessible to all workers. And let us not be hypocritical in granting such a low level of compensation that only a few categories of workers will apply for it. I therefore call for a review of the conditions of this leave in order to enable everyone to reconcile professional and child-rearing lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive presentation. I am very pleased to hear that you have the ambition to extend temporary unemployment under certain conditions until 31 August. That will be an absolute relief for many companies and give them the oxygen they need. This also means that we will bridge the summer months. These are usually months in which a lot of holiday or collective leave is taken. Will this leave remove temporary unemployment? Suppose people have been in temporary unemployment for 5.5 months, what will happen afterwards with their leave? If they come back and have to pick up minimum leave for another 25 days, it will hamper the efficiency of our companies. What could be an arrangement there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for these explanations. First of all, with regard to economic unemployment, since this health crisis there have been more than a million workers in economic unemployment or in emergency unemployment. If we did not have our social security, they would be as many people abandoned without a social safety net. Thanks to our social security, this greatly reduces the number of people in precarious conditions. As Mrs Mahy of the Walloon Network against Poverty said this morning, the number of people who find themselves in precarious conditions is increasing, but it is also increasing at the level of workers because, despite this good solidarity net, some of the workers are below the poverty line. I will give an example of one of my acquaintances who sent me a message yesterday again. It has two part-time contracts in the cleaning sector and, with economic unemployment, it is below the poverty line. Nevertheless, this social security remains our social security and we want to defend it. I particularly wanted to stress this today on this day of victory over fascism. Should we recall that this social security was created in the aftermath of the war? Minister, I hear what you're saying and I don't want to question your willingness to fight this scam, but I think you're using a homeopathic dose to deal with a situation that would rather require shock treatment. This homeopathic dose, you also use it on the problem of health controls and respect in companies. Monday was an important day for thousands of workers who, for the most part, were really happy to return to work. I would also like to congratulate and encourage all trade union delegations in the sectors that have put everything in place to ensure that this is done at best. They even ensured that the recommendations in the guide had instead become binding measures. I really have a lot of respect for these women and men in the field. At the same time, we receive many testimonies revealing that things are not going well, and sometimes not well at all. This concerns places where there is no delegation. This is sometimes due to other reasons. There, politics must take responsibility. You say there will be a commitment of three people in June, and eight later. What is the situation on the ground? You said it yourself by the numbers in your slides. I'm not gonna repeat them here. These figures were also included in an article in this morning's newspaper Le Soir. The article concluded: "These figures were recorded during a period of slow activity. Should we therefore fear that these statistics will explode now that the work is restarting?" We share this fear with the FGTB and the CSC. This puts a finger on the problem of lack of inspectors. If we stay like this, we won't be able to do it. If we extrapolate somewhat the number of inspectors on the ground, each site of private companies and public institutions would only be visited once every 25 years. But what a happiness for an employer in Belgium today! He's confident. With the current strength, he should expect only one inspection visit until 2040. I hope this is not your wish. In that case, Madam Minister, we will have to move to a higher speed. You also talked about the other inspections that were going to assist in this particular inspection. I did not understand the amount of this transfer between the different inspection agencies. If you could still answer that question, that would be nice. With regard to parental leave, you also did not explain why you did not introduce this right in a binding way. Why? I still want to draw attention to the situation in Brussels Airlines where there are serious risks of dismissal. I have introduced a question on this. This one goes a little bit between the ministries and I really regret it. I had a few questions to ask you about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u54	This issue will be postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u55	Madam President, please excuse me for this interruption. But with three children around me, at noon time, I had to give some instructions. Madam Minister, in relation to your replies on the status of artist, on all these issues related to unemployment for a sector that we know is very heavily affected, there are clearly a number of advances. You pointed them out. However, there is still a lot of work to be done and many situations to be encountered. I wanted, through this question, once again, to relay these diverse and varied situations for which we must absolutely be at the side of these artists and, in general, of the cultural sector. I have two questions. On the one hand, it is necessary to extend the rights related to this status of artist by one year, beyond the months in which any activity will have been impossible. We know this is going to be very complicated until the end of the year. We think we need to go beyond that. It is also necessary to ensure total neutralisation for the year 2020. I heard you've granted extensions. But much more needs to be done on this status. On the other hand, we have problems of interpretation at the level of the ONEM on what you have already decided. The ONEM points out that from 30 April onwards, and this mainly concerns intermittent workers, it will also not be accepted that employment contracts be concluded only for a period entirely covered by temporary unemployment. In fact, what the ONEM is doing is simply nullifying the decisions you have made. I would really like to hear you on these points. The interpretation at the ONEM level is probably not in line with the will you wanted to defend. I think that an administration cannot, when it is already extremely complicated, give interpretations to provisions that you have taken. I come to a small question which has nothing to do with the artists or with our Social Affairs Committee, but which I nevertheless wish to ask you, taking advantage of your presence. Information was relayed yesterday, allegedly from your office, about the opening of the dog grooming salons – I know it's quite accessory. Your firm would have announced that these trade shows could reopen from Monday, when it is not a trade. Yet all the conditions are fulfilled so that they can reopen. Could you confirm this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u56	Mrs Matz, they will be able to reopen on 11 May, without discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u57	Thank you, Mrs Muylle, that's an official answer. This information had been relayed by GAIA and she will rejoice them. Thank you for taking the time to consult with the cultural sector. I think we need to go one step further and prevent ONEM from neutralizing what you put in place positive for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u58	Minister, thank you for your very specific answers. For the right of withdrawal, you indicated that a worker could contact the worker from the moment he or she considers that the company does not comply with his or her obligations. The issue is how they will be able to ensure that an employer meets the required conditions. Like the many awareness-raising campaigns we are currently seeing, it would be wise to launch one on this subject. If that's already the case, that's good. Indeed, it would resettle a lot of serenity in companies. With regard to the European classification, I understand that there are two ways of analysing it, first by referring to the gravity and mortality rate and, secondly, to the presence of effective prophylactic treatment. The first criterion allows classification in category 3. On the other hand, focusing on prophylaxis and the degree of contagion may lead to category 4. I'm not saying, "You have to." In any case, it would be interesting to assess this aspect properly. Similarly, our country should take care of decisions taken at European level, because they will have a lot of repercussions. As far as maternity leave is concerned, there is a royal decree. So I'm not going to say more because I see that a job is being done. We'll have an opportunity to discuss it again. I thank you, in any case, for taking this initiative because I think it was really important for these mothers who are waiting for a birth to know that they will not be in trouble for their postnatal leave. Minister, parental leave is a matter that we really care about. We carried it from the beginning. I really want to tell you that we have observed the empathy and will that you have shown in this case. I personally wanted to thank you for that because I know you put a lot of energy into putting this parental leave in place. I am clearly very pleased that we have been able to open the debate. In concrete terms, I am still a little in difficulty in relation to the many calls and calls that I receive from single mothers or fathers with their children who have to start working again and who have no solution. I don't know what to say to these parents. I don't know if I should advise them to put their children in day care or not. This exceeds the powers of a Minister of Employment. It is the National Security Council that must work to find solutions. Nor do I have an answer to the question of what these parents can do if their employers refuse. What should they do with their children? Where are they going to put them? How are they going to do that? This is extremely problematic. Perhaps enlargement to full-time for single-parent families would make sense. Maybe it would be important for us to be sure that we can take a leave of absence until the end of August. I found out this morning that Minister Ducrame was also considering parental leave and that he was talking about another amount – 645 euros – related to close caregivers. I understand that the self-employed have other professional responsibilities, but I think that different amounts depending on the status will cause a great deal of misunderstanding. It is essential to harmonise this. Finally, I have heard a lot of concrete things for vulnerable audiences. We will have the opportunity to discuss it later, because we want to make proposals in this direction. Madam Minister, thank you and I give you the floor for a few clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u59	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many comments and for your support. I have received concrete new questions from a total of 16 speakers. I'll go over them. A lot of questions have been asked about the inspection services. There are 168 inspectors working today, 3 more are added and 8 vacancies are still pending. It was not obvious to find employees, but today's circumstances may not be positive. Perhaps we will be able to recruit staff soon. We'll see about that in the near future. In any case, we will provide a legal basis for all inspection services as soon as possible. We are working on a power of attorney decision, which means that it will be submitted to the sherpas and the superkernel cabinet next week. That is our intention. In addition to the RVA and the Inspection Supervision of Social Laws, many other inspection services can act. They total more than 1,000 employees. Does it mean that from tomorrow 1,000 people will join our inspection services full-time? No, but that does mean that we will give the whole group a legal basis so that they can also carry out checks. Why, Mrs. Rohonyi? I refer you to sections 2 and 3 of the Royal Decree. We really need to give inspection services the powers to exercise control over compliance with Articles 2 and 3 of the Ministerial Order. This is very important, because they do not currently have a legal basis for ensuring this. The intention is to do so next week with the power of attorney decision, so that the legal basis is there quickly so that the inspection services can be properly deployed. Mrs Rohonyi, the question of bridge law concerns Minister Ducrame, because the journalists in question are independents. So I find myself unable to answer you. You also mentioned the dismissal and even the prohibition of dismissal. This is, of course, about the full objective of temporary unemployment: we have given oxygen to companies with temporary unemployment, but we have also given oxygen initially to the maintenance of employment. Until today, we have succeeded very well, as the figures show, although we do not know what the next period will bring. I understand that an agreement has now been reached in committee to allow the suspension of the dismissal of people who are temporarily unemployed. The second reading will take place next week. The fact that the notice period continues or starts only after temporary unemployment gives some protection. The system of temporary unemployment is precisely the right system for maintaining jobs and ensuring that people are not fired. Mrs Thémont, there were a lot of questions about abuse. You spoke about the task force and raising the benefits. You think that temporary unemployment is not enough for the lowest income benefits, but we have chosen 70%, and we have added EUR 5.63 to that. This amounts to 100 to 150 euros per month in addition. A bill was tabled in the Finance Committee to reduce the corporate tax from 26% to 15%. The levy is not liberating, which means that it is offset by taxation for higher incomes afterwards. However, for the lowest incomes, to which you rightly refer, no tax invoice will follow afterwards. This means that in the short term they will have more of the temporary unemployment net. That gives them the additional purchasing power, which is so important, in the short term. I am also concerned about low incomes, Mrs Thémont, but I am convinced that our measures, namely those relating to 70%, which relate to the supplement of EUR 5.63 and the reduction of the farm levy from 26% to 15%, are very reasonable exercises to safeguard the purchasing power of workers with the lowest incomes in temporary unemployment. Mr Anseuw, you had questions about the policy during the transitional period. I already ripped off a tip from the veil. This is still being discussed by the government and employers and workers in the social dialogue. We've already done the same thing. We have brought the dates for all applications of force majeure from 30 May to 30 June. That's a first step. My proposal is to extend it until the end of August, a proposal supported by many. This gives the opportunity to take very sector-oriented measures. If we extend the measure until the end of August, we must be flexible in the transition period from 1 September 2020 to the end of 2020, and provided that a number of exceptions, which I have also outlined here, can fall back on the systems of normal force majeure and unemployment for economic reasons, which still exist in ordinary legislation. Certain sectors, such as the event sector, the travel sector and even the entire catering sector, such as Mr Briers, Mrs Matz and other Members, may remain very heavily affected. For these sectors, we may have to maintain the rule of force majeure due to the corona crisis outside the transitional period or after the end of August. Today, however, it is far too early to comment on this. That is why we are working in my proposal for an extension until the end of August and we are providing for a transitional period. Once again, for certain sectors, we may have to face a very specific situation and consider what measures we still need to take to support them as much as possible. Mr Anseuw, I have always said and I really believe that the great balancing exercise...... I fully follow you here.... is to support the sectors that need support, even after August 2020, and at the same time to develop a system that is sufficiently activating for those companies that can develop and restart economic activities, without counter-productive work. I have the impression that you are right in saying that, since we are working on an extension until the end of August, I have more time to prepare that balancing exercise properly. As far as the artists are concerned, I have explained the relaxation. It is important to read the lyrics carefully. We will be quite flexible in the application of everyone who is an artist, the film sector also belongs to it, the media sector also. For this reason, this is also well talked about with the RVA, although we still go partly on slippery ice. Today, the RVA does not go further on a written contract of employment, but also on a piece of commitment, agreements in the sector, what was there last year, programming and so on. The service therefore continues with commitments. All the Communities, including the Flemish Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of the French-speaking Community, have addressed me this week in the National Security Council and asked me to do something about these contracts. It concerns a very diverse group which does not have much on paper, but which is in trouble. In a first phase we will see what is possible until 30 August. It will then be possible to examine, as will be the case for other sectors, what measures are needed after 30 August. Mrs Vanroabaeys, as regards health inspections at work, you were talking about one week, but it was from 23 March to 30 April. So it is not a week, but just over a month, in which we have received the complaints. Maybe I said April twice by mistake. Many other colleagues also have questions about the well-being inspection at work. Mrs Moscufo, you pointed out that there are only 168 inspectors. Given the number of companies, they would be visited every 40 years. However, I would like to draw your attention to the social dialogue in companies, with trade union representatives, committees and internal and external prevention services, all of which are accessible and will continue to monitor the application of the guide. They will work on it as a directive. It has to be a kind of Bible, although that may not be equally telling for everyone. It has to be a sort of guide that makes it clear how to get to work. Inspection services act mainly after complaints, but also proactively. If there are signs and if there is a problem in certain sectors, then we will go on the ground. One can also work with a checklist and then go on site. Solution-oriented work and solutions are always sought. In the figures I have quoted, more than 1,300, there are 1,100 warnings. This is about the fact that there is no alcohol gel present at the workplace, that certain workplaces are not hygienic, that there is no paper available for the hands. This is about a lot of practical things, in application of that guide. It is then said that it needs to be solved and often that is also solved with a sturdy pede. If it is worse, one has a few days, then one comes back after a few days to check it out. That is the case for about 80 cases. Mr Goblet also said that if serious offences are detected and a report is drawn up, there is nothing to do with them. If the health of workers is at stake, there is nothing to do with a report, because it is only within a few weeks, months or in some cases even years before the courts. It's not an end in itself, but if it has to, the company has to close down. I am very clear on that. I have said this several times in the last few weeks. We work very well on solutions and we support, not only in corona times, we do so in non-corona times, but if the health of the workers is at stake because of the offences, then we must take strict action. Mrs Vanrobaeys, you also mentioned telework. I am getting signals, including from the GEES and from the workers' corner, that telework is not always respected, while we are still asking for maximum telework. I asked employers' organisations to provide an overview of how telework is going in the various sectors after the restart this week. I hope to get more clarity from them on that soon. I see a lot of positive and creative solutions around telework. I understand the need for social contact after so many weeks, but I see examples of companies which divide their employees into two or three groups, where each group comes to work for a week or one or a half days or two days. In this way, the physical contact is partly rebuilt. I hope that teleworking will be included in the social dialogue and that it will be possible to incorporate this more and more structuralally. I think it's important to do this. With regard to the transport sector, I understand from my colleague that we will ensure that the consultation is restarted. You are right in what you said about sectoral agreements and agreements. Yesterday we received the good news that all the parties in the construction sector signed the agreement. This support from all parties is good and I welcome the possibility of the parties working on the guide to conclude sectoral agreements. I hope that the consultations in the transport sector will also lead to an agreement. A hearing was asked to be held, but its organisation is to be held by the chairman of this committee. I'm sure I'd like to be a part of it. If what you're saying about the RVA and short contracts are correct, I'm asking you to pass it on to us. We have certainly asked for more explanation from the RVA. So we will certainly follow up on that. Several members, including Mrs Samyn, asked questions about Minister Ducarme's royal decision on corona leave for self-employed workers. I also read that in the newspaper this morning, I was not aware of it. I understand, however, that this will be decided next week in a power of attorney. A solution for the self-employed would be a good thing. I do, however, have a problem, apparently along with many of you, with the fact that self-employed workers are entitled to a different allowance than corona parents' leave for workers. This cannot be done; I am very clear about that. I will submit the necessary initiatives to the government next week in the framework of the power of attorney decision. It cannot be possible for one to receive a higher benefit than the other for the same type of leave. I will oppose this in its entirety, because this must be the same. Mrs Lanjri, as Minister for Employment, I am not responsible for everything in terms of living wages and integration. I am therefore somewhat on the sidelines, although I am responsible for poverty and people with disabilities. There are currently two slopes on the table at the task force. Either we provide for a specific budget for concrete measures for the target groups mentioned and other target groups. Targeted measures can then be taken by target group. Either we work with an envelope for the OCMWs and the CPAS, indicating what they can do with it. Those two slopes are on the table and there's still a decision to be made. Nor am I insensitive to certain aspects of the opinion of the GEES. I am thinking, for example, of non-inclusion of rights, something that is strongly referred to in relation to vulnerable groups. We need to look at the experts' advice in this area. It will be important to see what the impact is and how we are taking the right measures here again with the necessary budget for the right target groups. Mr Bertels, you are well aware that, in the implementation of the agreement between the social partners, I spoke about two of the three things. I am still waiting for a text from Minister De Block in respect of Part Three in the power of attorney decision, because everything that has to do with matching sickness benefits and temporary unemployment must come from her. I am therefore waiting for her text, and I hope that it will be adopted soon, so that we can include it in our decision next week. Mrs Willaert, I have, of course, already spoken about the complaints. As far as the procedure is concerned, a complaint cannot be made anonymously. One must always know from whom a complaint comes, but the name cannot be passed on to the employer. That's very important. I have already referred to the internal and external prevention services and the syndicated representatives. They must be present in every company, even if they are not of the company. So there is, but we will check whether we need to describe the procedure on the FPS Economy website a little more clearly and bring it to the fore. It will be good to do that again. I have answered the questions about inspectors and the self-employed. Then I come to the questions about pregnancy. Of course, I can only take measures today for the corona period. I understand that in Parliament there are initiatives for a definitive scheme for people who are ill so that the period of illness does not count in the weeks of pregnancy. Further arrangements should then be developed on the basis of these initiatives. Mr Goblet, I have answered you about closures and inspections. Mr Briers, 15 April was the date on which the events were banned. Hence this date was chosen as the starting point. Retroactive work is, of course, not so obvious because events that would normally have continued in March would have to be organised in April or May. That's not so obvious anymore. The benchmark has become the banning of major events. We respect the normal course of events with regard to holidays and holidays. Holidays which fall within 14 days of becoming temporarily unemployed are still borne by the employer. This isn't gonna change. The information has also been forwarded to the chairman. Mrs Dedonder, your question was about part-time parental leave and the possibility of taking it full-time. No, we chose a day or a half. In addition to the corona measures, normal parental leave will of course remain in force. Such systems remain possible, for example, for workers who work half-time and can be used or continue today. Thus, at least 75% of working is not always a necessary condition for parental leave, as normal systems continue to exist and are possible for those who work less. Mrs Houtmeyers, you asked a question about possible temporary unemployment during the summer holidays. As you may have heard in my reply, last April the average temporary unemployment was 14 days and only one in five workers were temporarily unemployed throughout the 26 working days of April. That makes your question somewhat relative, as in your example people remain temporarily unemployed for months and also during the summer holidays. So the image will always be mixed. If collective leave is fixed, e.g. a three-week closure in the construction sector, so should it. This means that payments must be made as usual during the three-week closure period. Assuming that a worker is in temporary unemployment throughout the month of July, but that he has long been planning as a holiday for the last two weeks of July, that leave will also continue, which also means that the worker will be reimbursed for those two weeks as being on leave. Catching up afterwards is not possible unless the employee has made an agreement with the employer to withdraw the leave, for example because the employer needs the worker during the period during which the leave was planned. There must be an agreement between the employer and the employee on that leave. The employer cannot withdraw the planned leave unilaterally. Those are the normal rules with regard to leave that are simply retained. Mrs Matz, it is also very important to read the explanation I gave about artists. You say there are still many problems. But thanks to the agreement with the ONEM, many cases can be resolved. It is therefore very important that you become aware of the specificities and conditions envisaged in collaboration with ONEM. This will allow you to get a lot of answers to your questions. Having said that, I am in no way opposed to a hearing in the House, on the contrary. You also raised the issue of intermittents. Please be aware that we have given all instructions to ONEM to address this problem. But you need to know that there are regional offices and that we are working together with thirty regional directors. However, I do not feel that everyone is always on the same wavelength. If you are aware of any cases or have any contracts, I invite you to let us know and we will contact ONEM. But normally there is a procedure to follow since a solution has been found for intermittents. Mrs Leroy, I think I have also answered your questions about parental leave. Among other things, Ebola is in category 4. Placing in category 4 has major consequences. We need to look at this further over the next period. Colleagues, I think I answered most of your questions in a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you very briefly for the clarification. The concerns I have expressed about possible misuse or abuse in the event sector do not need to be interpreted at all if I would not want anything to happen. I have explained in detail that I do have an eye and an ear for the specificity of this sector. I simply pointed out the slightly greater possibility of working at the RVA. It remains to be seen how things will work out. But don't worry. It's not that I don't want anything to happen for that sector. The opposite is true.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u61	Mr. Anseuw, it's true. It's a legitimate concern. What we are doing now is atypical. There's a big question on everyone's mind to do it. It will also require an effort from the RVA to be able to do so properly. We shall be following the problem very closely. If there are really things that cannot happen, we will also act. It is also a precedent for us, from which we will learn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u62	Madam Minister, I also pointed out at the beginning of my first speech that this is a learning process for everyone who is closely and from afar involved. We have not yet seen anything like this. That's for sure. That is what I wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your additional answers. I would like to come back briefly to the issue of complaints. The case I have outlined to you belongs to someone who, by name and name and with mention of the company concerned, has contacted the local management of Welfare Supervision at the Work. I think this is the right way. He received the answer by e-mail that nothing can be done for him, that one cannot go into individual cases. It's a workshop where there's no union delegation. I don't mind sending you that e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u64	You can get me that e-mail. We'll look into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u65	Thank you for that. I would also like to say that it is a very good thing to re-examine whether this procedure is sufficiently clear and to take a Wabelube test. It is not always people who find their way very easily. I would try to make that as accessible as possible, so that if one Google it in a manner of speaking one can immediately find where one can go. I think this is very important. Most employers do their best, but that is independent of the fact that people need to find the way to deal with dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u66	Madam Minister, you explicitly hope that a decision will be taken by Mrs De Block to implement the full agreement of the social partners in the Group of Ten. Two parts of this have already been implemented, but the full agreement on temporary unemployment and illness during the corona period effectively also included a alignment of primary disability benefit with temporary unemployment - which is 70%. We in Parliament will continue to insist that Mrs De Block's decision be taken quickly so that these people get what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u67	Madam Minister, I do not think you have really answered my question about insisting that, at the sector level, the agreements concluded be binding and that they serve as a reference for controls organised in companies. If we find that these agreements are not respected, that we go beyond the warning and the minutes and that we suspend the benefits until the company is in compliance with what has been planned in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u68	Mr Goblet, you know very well that the agreement within the Group of Ten on the guide is not binding. This is an agreement between employers and employees. If you want it to be binding, I need an agreement. It is always possible to envisage a CTC regarding this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u69	I'll get in the right place. Having a non-binding guide will not make it possible to have effective control in companies and to obtain compliance with safety measures. I really want to stress that It is also your role to ensure compliance with the Code of Well-Being at Work, and to ensure that the measures taken in the sectors are respected. I really wanted to insist because it is the most important thing to ensure the health of workers, but above all to prevent the crisis of the coronavirus from widening even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-08-55-commissie-ic173x.u70	Before closing the meeting, I need to inform you about next week's work. The minister will come back Friday to answer questions. The meeting will be held in two stages. We will start with a topical debate on VOCID-19 with the new issues, but above all those that have remained outstanding because of the crisis. As a reminder, do not hesitate to contact the services to prevent them from withdrawing certain questions, as many of them have become obsolete. It will save everyone valuable time and energy.
