ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I can be very brief, because I have prepared my question much earlier than my colleague, whose question is linked to my question. In the meantime, many more details are already known, and the next questioner will go into much more detail. I can limit myself to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u2	Mr President, Mr Mahdi, I wish you every success in your mandate on behalf of our party and our group, the largest group in the Chamber. I have already been able to congratulate you on a digital approach, but I have hardly been able to speak to you physically. The discussion we had in the European Parliament was very short. I wish you success in your mission, which is not easy. You will have to be stubborn and persevere. You'll have to work well with the administration. The migration administration is a fantastic administration, which you already know. All aspects and facets of the department are interesting and fascinating and there are a lot of fantastic officials and workers working on the ground, including in the asylum area. I wish you good luck, a lot of strength, a lot of stubbornness, I know you do. In the N-VA you will always find a partner to set up a migration policy that is strict but fair. I've tried to do that myself; that's always with falling and getting up. In the coalition agreement I have read, I find some elements particularly interesting, including what I will now question you about. I do not believe in a few other elements because I think there will be problems, but I will certainly be able to tell you about them in the coming weeks. When discussing your policy letter in the coming weeks, we will be able to have a deeper and longer discussion anyway. I look forward to that too. I have given you my books signed, the book Continental without border and the book Questions about migration. I hope you'll take your time to read it. I think that I hope that you will be able to draw a lot of inspiration from this, even if you may not agree with everything, but they certainly provide a good foundation for further debate on the content and for a really good discussion on where we want to go in Europe with migration policy. I have also provided you with our 21 legislative proposals that we had submitted before. I hope that your Head of the Cabinet, Mrs de Moor, and your team will be able to study them in the coming weeks in order to inspire some of the things that are coming, including the evaluation of judges of the Council for Foreign Affairs. We almost landed with that, so I just retabled that bill. It's actually just from the administration of the RV itself, so I suppose that's relatively easy to work on, then as a draft law. You will still have to submit that draft law to your colleagues in the Council of Ministers, but it is in the coalition agreement. For example, there are still legislative proposals that are really needed to close some loopholes, because unfortunately there are still some. Then I come to my question about the master plan for the closed centres. I read in the newspaper that the government will build two new closed centers, one in Zandvliet and one in Jumet. That is not news, because that had been announced a long time ago, but with a new government it is often the case that old decisions are being re-recorded and sold as something new. Of course it's not. That agreement was already in the Swedish Government and the budgets were already foreseen for that. I am pleased that they are continuing to do so. In Jumet there was a problem with the city administration of Charleroi. I am sure that Mr Magnette will have made his point during the negotiations. He put the MR out on the city board of Charleroi and he grabbed Ecolo. For Ecolo, closed centres for illegal immigrants are not so obvious on their territory. A building application was submitted which was assessed negatively by the city administration. I have now understood that we would now go for a smaller centre and that this would be an agreement between the city administration and the PS and Ecolo. There would be more places in Zandvliet. The total number of places would remain at the same level. Mr Secretary of State, is this information correct? How many places is it exactly in Zandvliet and Jumet? Is the idea of the units of the Tilburg prison that we have stopped, for which I have signed an agreement with the Dutch, being transferred or not? Or is it going to be a completely new closed center in Zandvliet? I started to speak for the residents a number of times, which are quite critical. I think it's gonna take one of them. You know that the Antwerp city council is absolutely asking for this and the N-VA certainly is. What is the state of play in the roll-out of the master plan? I'm sure there's a delay. How much delay is that? What's the timing for opening those closed centers? Is it true that the application for a permit was rejected? How much did that permit cost on architects' fees? After all, there is nothing as acidic as a rejected licence application. That's gonna cost a lot of money. How are things going with the Buildings Regie, especially for Zandvliet as for Jumet? What's the status there? I read in the coalition agreement a phrase that intrigues me. It says that people in the closed centres will be taken care of in optimum living conditions. I think that's what we do. At the moment things are going well on the premises, but in Bruges we have a problem. It's a very outdated institution. You should check it out. It's not optimal. I'm willing to admit that, too. I sometimes get blamed from the NGO angle. They're not always wrong. With regard to the phrase "optimal conditions," does the government mean that there will be a new centre in Bruges, that the existing centre will close and be replaced by another or that it will just close? Then there's no more room for net. What is your intention with the center in Bruges? Is there gonna be a new one? Is it being renovated? Is there a schedule available? Or do you just continue with the existing center? How can this be reconciled with the point in the coalition agreement that the best conditions of reception are being developed in closed centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u3	I have been flexible with the regulatory speaking time. I counted Mrs Van Camp's speaking time among yours, Mr Francken. Mr Secretary of State, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for the many questions that have been put, at a time when timing is not always a good thing, since a policy statement will be made within two weeks. However, I will answer all the questions as best I can. I promise you that in the future I will respond as well as possible and punctually. I have always appreciated it as a Member of Parliament when ministers gave detailed answers. I'll do my utmost to do that, too. I would also like to thank colleagues, and in particular Mr Francken, for the documents I have been concerned with. You may also have read, Mr Francken, that I think it is important that we depolarise the issue in this department. Everyone believes that Asylum and Migration should be a department where a fair policy is pursued. We shall, of course, look at the documents you have provided to me. We look at proposals from all parties, including opposition parties. You can be sure that we will also study those documents. As far as your questions are concerned, as you may know and yourself have said, in the previous legislature, in 2017, a master plan was presented by yourself, and then by Mrs De Block, with the aim of increasing the capacity of the closed centres. Two new centres were included in that plan, one in Jumet and one in Zandvliet. A total capacity of 344 places was envisaged for these two centres. In that master plan, approved by the then government in May 2017, Zandvliet was targeted for the opening of these centres on June 2020 and Jumet for January 2021. However, this timing was never on course and was delayed from the very beginning. Construction hasn't started yet. This government is committed to providing sufficient capacity in the closed centres and will improve and implement the master plan for this purpose. So I want to make this quick. However, new closed centres still need work to be started. I will closely monitor these works in order to avoid a great deal of time being wasted as in the previous legislature. This should ensure that the centres are operational as soon as possible. The building of the CIB Bruges is in very poor condition. This was already confirmed by the IF Asylum and Migration in 2015. All parties concerned agree that an infrastructure solution is necessary. The Government of the Buildings has stated in writing that a new building is the only solution. A need programme validated by the IF was established. A suitable plot is currently being searched, based on objective parameters. It is my intention to bring this dossier to the Council of Ministers, because that is in line with the government agreement that provides for the detention of center residents in good living conditions. So clearly there is still work on the shelf to achieve the further roll-out of the master plan. We will therefore quickly ensure that the start-up is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u5	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. You are very ambitious with regard to achieving the master plan, something I certainly appreciate. I will submit my supplementary questions on the costs of the award procedure and the architect's costs in writing so that you can have a little more time for that. There will be a new building and people are still looking for a suitable location. I think it would be a good thing if it were to be in Bruges itself, because, in view of the transit problem in Zeebrugge, it is really necessary to have a closed centre in West Flanders, in the motorways, and in Bruges itself. That's just convenient and practical, including for the police. It should be possible to find a location in Bruges or Zeebrugge, there is still a place. I understand the plan for Jumet is ongoing. I hope it will succeed, but I fear, frankly, that it will not be obvious. If that were not possible, opposite the Centre 127bis and the Caricole transit centre in Steenokkerzeel there is still a very large area that the Regie der Bouwen has purchased. It is an area of a few hectares and we already have 2 large centers there. It is located near the airport, which is fantastic practical. It will also generate a lot of employment and I expect a lot of layoffs from low-skilled workers at the airport. Swissport is already the case. You yourself come from Flemish Brabant and you know that this is mainly about low-skilled people who are made redundant, including people from Brussels and Molenbeek. Corona is making the aviation sector a disaster. An extra closed centre there, and it is mainly low-skilled people who are recruited to do so, would be good for our region. I would ask you, if it is not possible in Jumet, to see if there can be a third center in Steenokkerzeel. You could count on a great deal of applause for that, both from the local mayor and from the people of the airport, who might then be able to work there, if they get their C4 as soon as the regulation of technical unemployment is lifted, because that is what is obviously going on. We shall continue to discuss the matter of return policy on the substance. Mrs Van Camp has a very interesting question about this. I have also seen that there are still interplays about that. I look forward to your policy letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I read in the coalition agreement that you want to focus in particular on strengthening existing readmission agreements and that you want to conclude additional agreements. You also say that we will have access to it. What exactly is on your schedule? Which countries will you conclude readmission agreements with? What timeline did you impose on yourself? This is how we can assess when we can question you about this. What do you mean by strengthening the existing readmission agreements? Is this about agreements concluded by former Secretary of State with Morocco and Algeria, among others? What exactly do you want to change and strengthen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, it's the first question session with you. I take this opportunity to congratulate you and to wish you a great deal of energy for this incredible challenge. Your department has a heavily loaded history and means a heavy legacy. The department has given rise to a lot of polarization in the past. There was an all-consuming urge to score electorally with that power, which was not so beneficial to the people it was often about, nor productive for the policy results. Difficult decisions require just more serenity rather than less, that is my conviction. With regard to asylum and migration, the coalition agreement certainly offers many opportunities and prospects for a new balance. In any case, I look forward to a very good cooperation between you and Parliament, in an open spirit. You have just shown this, especially with regard to the opposition. The return of illegal residents is part of a balanced, correct and humane asylum and migration policy. The conclusion of readmission agreements with third countries is essential. This must be done with respect for human rights. In the past, that was a blur of mystery. Parliament has not always had access to these agreements. The coalition agreement now provides for the first time for Parliament to have access to the readmission agreements. Do you have any idea how that will be achieved in practice? Can we soon have access, with respect for confidentiality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by entrusting a secret to Mrs Van Camp and Mr De Vriendt, but I suspect that the rest of the House is listening. I have a huge fear of flying, but despite the fact that I'm afraid to fly, you can be sure that I, with nodding knees, very much like to get on the plane to travel to a number of countries. I'll come back, too, if some of you are worried about that. I think it is important that a number of return agreements are concluded. I intend to work quickly on return agreements. These agreements form an essential link in order to ensure the success of the return policy. The countries which are given priority are, of course, the countries of which many are illegally resident here. There are many different forms of cooperation between Belgium and third countries in the context of return. Take-back agreements are just a form of them. Mrs Van Camp, with both countries you mention, we do not have a readmission agreement. It is about strengthening the current framework. We have signed an agreement with Morocco on the identification of electronically exchanged fingerprints. That was embedded in a broader memorandum of understanding. Unfortunately, at the beginning of this year, Morocco declared that agreement to be concluded. The European Union has also been negotiating a read mission agreement with the country for years, but without success for the time being. No agreement has yet been signed with Algeria. The declaration of intent between then Minister for the Interior Jambon and his Algerian counterpart has not yet led to an agreement. The most recent attempt was an administrative agreement on the electronic exchange of fingerprints. That agreement has not yet been given practical effect. It is therefore clear that cooperation with both countries can be strengthened. Respect for human rights becomes one of the main lines of my policy. The same applies to the conclusion of readmission agreements. Another line of action I will follow is to ensure a transparent policy. In view of the fact that the European Parliament has been consulted on readmission agreements, this is an aspect of this. Access may take different forms. It is important that confidentiality is guaranteed. The functioning of international agreements is a matter of discretion, especially when it comes to sensitive matters. Moreover, the European Union will also play a greater role in concluding readmission agreements. This is clearly one of the main lines of the proposed European asylum and migration policy. One possibility is that Members of Parliament can consult the relevant documents at an agreed time without having the opportunity to take notes, photographs or copies. I will soon examine the legal possibilities and consult our diplomatic framework. Afterwards, I hope to be able to set up a final procedure quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the half answer to my question. I would like to know which readmission agreements you are seeking to strengthen, so you say Morocco and Algeria. We will certainly continue to follow that up. Which new countries you will seek out and what you want to overcome your fear of flying in order to conclude readmission agreements with, that answer remains to be found. I hope you will come back to that in the policy paper. If not, I will certainly question you for that. You have not yet answered my clear question about timing. We'll ask you about it in time and we'll ask you about it. Then I'm sure we'll get a look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and for your willingness to implement that important new step in the coalition agreement. Of course, the way in which Parliament is viewed needs to be looked at. I don't need to remind you of that. Certain procedures are already being applied in other areas, for example in the field of defence policy, to name but one. Such a degree of discretion is also required for military purchases or operations, to which the procedures developed can offer all the guarantees. I look forward to operationalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will take my questions together. On page 79 of your coalition agreement, I read that the government really wants to go for a firm return policy. You've already made that statement in the press. Can you outline the specific measures with which you want to achieve this? Will you, like your predecessor, make a priority of pointing out criminal illegals? Unless I've read about it, I haven't found any exact engagements in terms of numbers. Maybe today you can tell us exactly what numbers you're aiming for there? A little further in the coalition agreement, I read that the detention of minors will be excluded and alternatives will be examined. There have been hearings in this committee over the last few weeks and there will be hearings in the next few weeks. The experts of the Bossuyt Committee and the Foreign Affairs Service are very clear about this and say that they do not think there are any alternatives. What alternatives do you intend to make very clearly when the Bossuyt Commission and the DVZ, however experts on the ground, indicate that it is impossible to establish a fair policy on the return via that back door? Moreover, the possibility of voluntary return is also hampered. Why did you put those findings next to you? Is it really intended to establish a fair policy on asylum and migration? You're blowing a little hot and cold about this. I hope you can shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u12	Mr President, Mr Mahdi, my congratulations on your appointment as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Contrary to what would be apparent from the government statement and the explanations made by the group chairmen of the government parties, your department is indeed a very important department which is awakened by many Flemings, Walen and Brusselsers. I therefore hope that we will be able to work constructively together, as is the custom in this committee. When you took office, you said that the return rates should be raised. The figures are, after all, very poor in this respect, with all the consequences. However, after reading the coalition agreement, I have no choice but to express my deepest doubts about your promise. The return of displaced asylum seekers and other people without legal residence is in danger of becoming even more difficult. If this government had been serious about its promise to increase return rates, it would have done well to read the recent report of the Bossuyt Commission. This report sets out in a comprehensive and objective manner the shortcomings of the return policy pursued and makes recommendations to make return more efficient and effective. Unfortunately, we find little or nothing of this in the formation note, but quite the contrary: in some areas, the coalition agreement is even opposed to the Bossuyt report. The fact that you have already entered into dialogue with Mr Bossuyt does not change that reality. I shall confine myself to a few essential elements. Firstly, the government agreement states that families with children should no longer be held in closed return centres pending their forced return. In this way, you send out the signal that no family with children will ever be forced to leave. This will not only lead to less voluntary return, but will undoubtedly also have an effect on suction and make this country even more attractive to illegal migrants from all over the world. Secondly, there is no provision in the coalition agreement to allow illegal immigrants to return to their homes. However, according to the Bossuyt Committee, such a settlement was also an essential instrument for ensuring an efficient and effective return policy. For the rest, the government is committed to additional efforts on voluntary return and so-called alternatives to detention. Of course, we have not forced anything against the endlessly repeated "voluntary if possible, if necessary," but in practice the last part of that sentence is all too often forgotten. There have been many initiatives in this area of voluntary return in the past, but unfortunately without much success. That should not be surprising either, because why would people leave voluntarily if the chances of them being forced to do so are virtually non-existent and now become even smaller? In this context, I would like an answer to the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. Why is there no reference in the government statement to the findings and recommendations of the Bossuyt Commission? How do you intend to increase the voluntary return of families with children, now that they are actually guaranteed that they cannot be forced back? The coalition agreement announces measures to prevent the return from being made impossible by manifest lack of cooperation, but what measures are being taken in concrete terms, now that two essential measures are already being excluded in advance? Although there is no mention of residential entrances in the coalition agreement, you did not completely exclude them, among other things in the Canvas programme De Afpartement, as opposed to your green coalition partner who explicitly ruled out residence. Just so we're clear, is there going to be a settlement for residents or not? You announce that you want to increase the return rates, but do not mention a target. I agree with Mrs Van Camp. However, in December last year, your party stated that the number of illegal immigrants returned should double. Is that also the aim of you now that you are Secretary of State, Mr Mahdi? I hope that you will come up with more specific answers than group chairmen, Verherstraeten and Lachaert, who refused to answer such simple questions in the declaration of government. The last question I would like to ask you is whether you will compare the return figures intellectually with the figures of the years 2015, 2016, 2017, and perhaps 2018, and of course not with the years when Corona came into the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u13	Mr President, thank you to the Members of Parliament for their questions. I understand that it is not always easy to wait for the policy statement to get all the concrete details of the questions that are being asked. I understand that this is frustrating and I hope to get rid of that frustration in two weeks. I'll certainly get you some intellectual figures. I and the parties that are part of the government think intellectually fair figures are important. I hope that the same applies to those Members who are not members of the majority. I've had questions, I could also send questions back, but I'll have to answer them myself. For those who prove that they are no longer allowed to stay here, the return policy must certainly be optimised. The same applies to families. Mr Van Langenhove, you also know that there are families who have effectively returned to their country. You also know that most of these families have not returned through a closed centre. You were talking about fair grades. I hope you know that your claim, namely that by not using closed centres for children, no one will de facto return through a family, is incorrect. Anyway, honesty is something we can all learn a little bit. I would like to mention one last element which is also important. It is your first time here, so I can understand that speaking a name is not always obvious, even though we have seen each other a number of times. My name is pronounced "Medi." Saying that wrong could happen to anyone. There is no problem in that regard. As far as the rest of the questions are concerned, return will indeed be one of the major challenges of my policy. I've explained that several times. Return has so far always been the weak link, indeed. But I'm sure it doesn't have to be. Therefore, the coalition agreement strongly addresses this issue. I will take various measures to this end, which I will explain in greater detail during the presentation of my policy statement. But I will focus on measures to strengthen both voluntary and forced return. It is clear that return rates should at least improve compared to the previous legislature. A firm return policy for convicted criminals indeed remains one of my priorities. The government agreement also included that new places in closed centres will be filled in as a priority by persons committing crime, endangering public order, or causing nuisance. However, the fact that families with minor children will not be held in closed centres does not mean that these families will no longer be deported. I was trying to make that clear earlier. The coalition agreement is clear on that. Measures will be put in place to avoid abuse in order to prevent return. I will be happy to say a lot more about this in two weeks' time. For example, the recommendations of the Bossuyt Commission's final report, to which reference is made, will indeed be examined. I've seen Mr. Bossuyt. That was more than a courtesy visit and it was a visit to which I myself had a lot. I will remain in touch in the coming days, weeks and months, not only with Mr Bossuyt, but with everyone in the field, with the services, which are very important and do their job very well, to ensure that we can optimise our policies as best we can. I will work, on the advice of the Bossuyt Commission, on intensive coaching of people who are ordered to leave the territory. This starts with a clear message, which must be sent to each person concerned by all the authorities involved. Above all, we need to work much more closely. Good cooperation between DVZ, Fedasil and other actors is crucial here. To intensively accompany families with underage children, six additional coaches have already been recruited. These coaches will accompany the families to voluntary return. If there is no cooperation, the forced return from the housing units will be organised. The different alternatives to detention that will be developed will also be used for families with underage children. These include return homes, regular administrative and/or police checks, house arrest, bail and others. Let me be very clear: an order to leave the territory must be enforceable and enforced. The coalition agreement therefore provides that all kinds of abuse and lack of cooperation by the parties concerned will be addressed. I will make proposals on this at the appropriate time and discuss them first within the government, as usual. So yes, it is indeed the intention to put in place a correct return policy. No, that's not just locking up children and then being able to say that one is the strictest. A correct return policy is to ensure that the procedures are speeded up, with the person concerned knowing quickly and clearly where he is going. A correct return policy is a pressing policy, whereby people are not tolerated for years in illegality, but take them directly with them in an appropriate path. The most important thing is that it can only be such an effective policy, with more people actually returning. That is what I, along with my administrations, will make a great deal of effort in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer, but certainly not for the content. You're saying it's not like nobody's gonna be sent back. That's right, that's all drawn to bottles. That was very clearly addressed in the hearings. It is about two-thirds of (the noise falls away) (...) right of residence, which simply do not want to go back and are not returned. We ask you today what your alternatives are. Your answer is coaching. However, that is already happening today. Today we are faced with figures that indicate that two thirds of illegal immigrants are not returned without a right of residence. Mr Secretary of State, anyone who forgets the past is doomed to repeat it. There have been several attempts in the past, including by the Liberals. Several alternatives have been tested that you mention again today, such as some kind of turtlehouses or bicycle coaching. Those are all attempts that have failed and are precisely the reason why the forced return has been taken back. You don't know today. Your answer is still very unsatisfactory in this respect. Let us hope that with the policy paper to which you refer and which should be submitted next week, you will suddenly see the light and come out with full alternatives. I like to be surprised. Nor do you give numbers today and therefore do you show any real ambition in the field of returning criminal illegal immigrants. It's just hollow words for now. However, that is not a problem. We will be very happy to follow the matter up with you, both through the policy paper and over the coming months. We will certainly not let go of the subject. Finally, you say that you want to pursue a fair asylum and migration policy. In the meantime, however, you are leaving a huge back door open for return, although all experts agree that this back gate is problematic. People who have no right of residence cannot return is unfair. That is an unfair policy, not only to those involved themselves, who are in illegality, but also to our society, to those who are properly migrating here and to real refugees, whose opportunities and places are thus being taken away. I would have expected a different signal from you in that regard, which is a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u15	Mr Mahdi, first of all, you answer that we must wait for the policy statement. You have not, however, done so either. You communicate with very big words on Twitter and with very big promises on television in many programs. Everywhere we looked, we first saw Marc Van Ranst. Now we see you appear there. You can expect Members of Parliament to ask questions about this, of course. If you had waited for your policy statement, perhaps we would have been more patient. However, we also get questions from our constituents about the statements you make on television and on social media. So it is obvious that we are discussing them here, especially at the place where they should be discussed first, before you talk about it with Lieven Verstraete or Danira. Secondly, you state that you want to attach great importance to intellectually honest figures. However, if the migration study, which has been postponed for many years, had been carried out, we would have had more figures on which we could base ourselves. If you had come up with more concrete promises and objectives instead of vague promises, we would have had more concrete figures and coats of arms again to answer our questions. The only thing I have heard here from a specific objective is that you want to do better than the Michael I administration. That does not seem to me to be a very difficult objective, since that policy was disastrous, but it is something. It is already one specific objective. The third point is that you blame me for implying that there is no voluntary return of families. Everyone knows that, of course, families return voluntarily, but my speech today and in the government statement was that you are going to make voluntary return more difficult. If you do not have a stick behind your door, if you cannot tell the families that if they do not want to cooperate and voluntarily return, they will have to return, if you are going to make this more difficult by prohibiting families from being detained for return purposes, then voluntary return will also become more difficult. That is quite obvious, but you seem to forget that time and time again. You say that you will look for alternatives and want to develop measures for them, but so many weeks after the declaration of government, there are still no such measures. You speak against what we have heard about families that we will not be forced to return from their family unit "fixed" or "closed" to say it with your words, but that is of course much more difficult. How can you guarantee that these families will not just disappear in the night before their forced return? You also say that you will take into account the Bossuyt Committee's report, that you will examine what is in it. That report is already a study: one has studied how to do better and one has finally, after a long time, made recommendations that we would best follow up instead of simply investigating. Finally, I would like to point out that the moral finger really will not work here. If you speak of being intellectually honest, you should not say that opposition parties would just want to lock up children. Of course, no one wants that. What we want is a firm and humane asylum and migration policy, and we will continue to fight for this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, I read far too little in the coalition agreement about measures to better reduce the influx of migrants and, above all, on those in real need. In this connection, I refer to the hearings that have taken place in recent weeks in the context of the Bossuyt Committee's report. This shows very clearly that the return is and will remain very difficult, especially with what you intend to do, unless you have any surprises out of your hat. After all, it is simply a question of continuing the current policy with also an erosion of the return. So I conclude that it is necessary to bet better on triage, to prevent better than to heal as it were. We must continue to help those in need of support and care, but we must fight against the very large, unjustified, passive migration. Mr Secretary of State, in the coalition agreement, I did not find much evidence of measures to reduce the influx and to ensure that mass migration stops so that we can focus better on those who really need our help. What initiatives are you currently working on? What can we really expect in your policy paper on this matter? Our group has a dozen proposals in place in Parliament, including on family reunification. As far as family reunification is concerned, you have said that you want to associate yourself with the countries around us. Will you cooperate in the adoption of these proposals? Let me give you a few examples. With regard to family reunification, we want to better align the conditions of income and the derogation period with those of neighbouring countries. After all, hearings have shown that we really need to tighten up our conditions if we want to align ourselves with neighbouring countries. There is also the judgment in the Diallo case which clearly showed that we should no longer allow automatic awards. I shall come back to that in a separate question. We also have proposals to address revolving door marriages, to better address sham parenting, to suspend family reunification in partner violence and to focus on language and integration in the country of origin. These proposals are already a matter of concern to you, and I would like to return to them separately. Perhaps you can let us know today which proposals you support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I do not agree with you when you say that the government agreement does not say anything about influx. I think you feel that way because you read the coalition agreement from your own point of view, which, in itself, is not illogical, but different from mine. After all, this government will not introduce the Australian model on asylum. The Australian model is unrealistic, illegal and almost priceless. Moreover, in the Australian context, it has shown that it is also inhumane. This government is opting for a European approach. I fully support them. Cooperation within the European Union needs to be strengthened in order to achieve strengthened external borders, uniform procedures, fair burden sharing, better reception and protection in the regions of origin and agreements on migrants in transit without residence documents. We always do this in accordance with international law. The government is also committed to further intensifying the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially smugglers. All these things are in the coalition agreement and affect the influx. I will also defend these principles in the forthcoming negotiations on the EU Pact on Migration and Asylum. The common goal of most Members of this House is a well-functioning, controlled asylum and migration policy. In this sense, I am always open to good proposals, including from the opposition. As you said, the government agreement also focuses on family reunification. You have tabled a number of further questions on this subject, and I am delighted to give you further details on these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, that is what I am looking forward to, because for the time being I have very few answers to my questions. I asked you exactly what measures you will take, but until today, 23 October, on a week from the submission of the policy paper, you do not know that. I am therefore very curious to see what you will pull out of your hat in your policy paper. You say today that you will not support the Australian model, which our group has also proposed, because it is inhumane. It is therefore an effective and correct finding that we absolutely disagree. You want to stop smugglers. Well, we know that the Australian model is now completely draining those currents. There are almost no sea crossing to Australia, resulting in deaths, more so. The filières with smugglers of human beings have been wiped out. If you really want to bet on a system where only the people who need help and want to stop mass migration will have to go to the Australian model. It is a finding that we are completely different on this issue. I fear, therefore, that the figures will be wrong to you, perhaps not in your eyes, because it is clear that you want to go for an open border policy, with you going back, not to bet on the draining of smugglers and dangerous crossings at sea. That's a pity. We will not only see this in the figures, but also in the democratic sense what you are saying does not correspond to what the Flemish voted for. It is a very unfortunate thing for you to work in this way in your department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to join you in congratulating you on your appointment as Secretary of State and sincerely wish you every success in the implementation of your mandate. The announced opening of a temporary asylum centre in a former residential care center in Grote-Spouwen, Bilzen, has caused a stir from the outset. It is a year ago tomorrow morning that Bilzen's city administration was informed of that decision by a sec call from the then Minister. For the rest, the city administration was not in any way assisted or further informed about the way in which the decision was made. It also didn't get an impact analysis. The local government and the population of the rural district of my home town stood with their backs against the wall and could only take note of the decision, as it were. The necessary renovation works on the site were considerably delayed by the arson in November 2019, of which neither the motive nor the perpetrators are currently known. The investigation is ongoing so far. The corona crisis also caused some delays. In July, your predecessor replied to my parliamentary question on this point that the damage to the building in question after the arson was obviously considerable. She also reported that the owner was at that time planning for reconstruction and renovation and that the Red Cross, in consultation with the owner and its services, would consider when the restart would be possible. We are already a few months later and there is now a government with full authority. What's the status of the file? Were or are your services kept informed of the progress of the judicial investigation as a result of the arson to the building in question? Can you outline the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, at the risk of repeating yourself, I also sincerely congratulate you on your appointment. I live in the same city as Mrs Ponthier, hence the similar question. The reason for my question is the final closure of the Parelstrand asylum centre in Lommel in August. That closure has been postponed several times, but it became a fact in August. The asylum centre in Lommel was an emergency shelter and therefore in principle temporary and then the link with my home town Bilzen is of course quickly established. Mr Secretary of State, what is the reason why the asylum centre in Lommel closed its doors in August? Does the closure of the centre in Lommel affect the plans for an asylum centre in Bilzen, because Bilzen was a buffer centre? Are these plans, whether or not for the time being, also being put away? If the Bilzen plans are not put away, when will the asylum centre be put into operation there? In the meantime, is there a better view of the timing? Finally, have you been informed of the progress of the judicial investigation? We assume that is still going on. Can you confirm that, and do you have any idea when the judicial investigation can be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u21	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ponthier and Mr Rasking for their congratulations and congratulations. I appreciate the fact that we are talking to each other in committee in this way. I think that is the best way to achieve results, from the majority, from the opposition, from the government to Parliament and vice versa. I would like to thank you sincerely for the welcome. Before I answer the questions, I express my horror at the events in Bilzen; it still affects me; I still see the images before me. I therefore hope that the perpetrators will not avoid their punishment. One thing is clear: they will not achieve their goal. The opening of an asylum centre in Bilzen remains a real option. We don't let people burn the barf on social media and we certainly won't let people do that in real life. Then I come to the concrete answers. There are still talks between the Red Cross Flanders and the owner about the opening of a shelter in Bilzen. The result would normally become known in the next few weeks. The lease agreement between Fedasil and the owner of the site in Lommel came to an end. All residents were transferred before the end of the agreement. In this way, the Agency has fulfilled its commitment to the local government and the government. Like the closure of the sites in Koksijde and Spa, the closure of Lommel has no impact on the plans for the shelter in Bilzen. There's still no idea of the timing. Fedasil put himself bourgeois party in the judicial investigation in the file. This means that Fedasil can request access and automatically have access to the file after the investigation has been completed. The investigation is still ongoing, so I am not able to provide any additional information on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers, although in some areas they are very general and vague. New bosses, new insights, that does not seem to me right away, if I may say so here. Like your predecessor, you are also doing a preliminary study here. I really want to ask you to stop doing that. As I said in my question, we do not know what the motives are and who the perpetrators are. For the time being, in order to preserve correctness, let us remain in the plains. There are still uncertainties and questions. You say that the opening of the asylum centre in Grote-Spouwen remains a real scenario. Grote-Spouwen is a rural municipality in Bilzen. The support for the installation of such an asylum centre, temporary or not, the term temporary is usually stretchable -, in that particular sub-municipality and by extension throughout the city of Bilzen, is very small. That doesn't make any sense either, given the location in question. Both the city administration and the people of Bilzen have already explained the reasons very clearly. Moreover, the decline in the number of asylum seekers due to the corona crisis would suggest that the location is being re-examined. Now it turns out that's not the case. I would remind you of the general view of the Flemish Interest in this matter. We call for reception in our own region, for strict surveillance of our external borders and, if necessary, for internal borders, so as to minimise the impact of suction. Having said that, I once again advocate reviewing the plans for the site in question and deleting the site once and for all as a possible location. In addition, I call for clear and transparent communication on all further complications in this area, as we have repeatedly made clear to your predecessor. Apparently, there's no interaction between Fedasil, the Red Cross and local government. I deeply regret that. Just that is one of the most important points of criticism from the beginning. I sincerely hope that you will take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, although it is not easy to take the floor from home, may I ask you to keep an eye on the speaking time? For replies, speaking time shall be one minute. I think we have gone well over two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u24	Mr President, I will do my best. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. As far as the file is concerned, there is already some history to be noted. After the city administration of Bilzen left the inhabitants of the municipality of Grote-Sprowen to their fate after the announcement a year ago and after a fire was started almost a year ago, the peace has returned somewhat to us, but the problem is that uncertainty remains. Your answer that the opening will remain a real slope does not, of course, indicate determination and, in my humble opinion, gives rise to a great deal of vagueness and uncertainty. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to make a subsequent plea. The file, which I've been following up on since the beginning, is jammed. Nothing's been done about that building for months. It may also have become an insurance problem as a result of the arson. It was just a bad choice at the time to place a centre of such a size in a small village community like Kleine-Spouwen. That is why I would ask you to draw a line under the file. Mr. Secretary of State, give me some certainty. If you want support, you can't. Offer certainty, stop muddling, for that is not an act of good governance. Take responsibility, scrape the bad plan around that center in Bilzen, because the file is what it is. It has become impossible to come up with a solution within a reasonable time and to give people clarity. That's why you have to cancel the plan, not because of the calls on the social media. Take responsibility and offer certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, in the coalition agreement, you say that you want to bring family reunification and the rules and conditions around it into line with the laws of neighbouring countries in order to make them more consistent. In a previous question, I referred to this issue. The N-VA Group has already put forward many proposals on this, precisely to strengthen family reunification, and also based on comparisons with other countries, and more specifically with neighbouring countries. Belgium is often the least strict. This was also demonstrated by the comparison of the IMN, which was present at the hearing on this subject. I have already listed it in a previous question and you wanted to come back to it with concrete proposals that you would make to bring family reunification in Belgium closer to the rules in neighbouring countries. What proposals will you make yourself? Which of the many proposals we have put forward can we expect your support?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u26	Thank you, Mrs Van Camp, you are a very active member of the committee and I appreciate that. You are also a very impatient member of the committee, and I can appreciate that even more. By the way, you think I should finish the policy statement by next week. That's not for two weeks. So, luckily, there's still a little more time to finish it. After this declaration has been passed on to the Council of Ministers, I can submit it. That makes you occasionally disappointed in my answers. I understand that, too. I hope that you will soon be very pleased with the very detailed answers I can give you, after we have worked out the details with the various services and the people involved in the formulation of the policy statement. I will try to answer this question as best I can. Each Member State of the European Union has developed its own legislation on family reunification within the framework of the European directives. Depending on the category of family reunification, conditions may vary. During several hearings in this committee, this was emphasised once again, in particular in the context of family reunification by recognised refugees. We will review the various aspects of our legislation on family reunification in accordance with the legislation of our neighbouring countries and, if necessary, to bring them more into line with that legislation. Once I have carried out this review, I will make a concrete proposal to the Council of Ministers. I'll communicate about this in due course. You feel that you have not received an answer to your question, but the Council of Ministers must have taken place first. I promise I'll come to you. Several proposals have already been tabled and discussed in the Chamber. I cannot, of course, intervene in the parliamentary work, but I will examine all the proposals and see if I can get some elements out of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have already indicated it yourself. I am, of course, disappointed by your answer. It is true that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber state that the policy papers must reach us on 31 October. However, I had already expected that you would not be able to meet that deadline, as you also easily removed the topic debates on the occasion of your appointment, as you did not want critical questions about your policies. Today is also very clear to me why. After all, you have promised with a lot of words things, but the actions are for the time being absent. However, I am happy to be surprised when you present the policy papers. You can continue to ricochet our debate on the subject and our questions here, which are the right of Parliament, and keep turning around. That's a delay. After all, one day the policy papers are coming up. You will also see us here in Parliament week after week. We will certainly come back to the problem. You can count on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u28	Minister, I am afraid I know your answer now, especially that you do not know it yet, but I will try again. After all, the coalition agreement states that you would very much like to work on strengthening integration here, especially in relation to family reunification. It says literally: we need to invest more in (...) [[Technical problem with the microphones]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u29	Is the sound working now? Can everyone hear me? [[Assent]] Miss Van Camp, you may proceed with your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u30	(...) came through, but from then on I have heard nothing more of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u31	No, you were still working on your question. I suggest you ask the question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I know that it is difficult for you to answer the questions specifically because you still have to look at everything. That's not a problem. We'll wait for that. However, the coalition agreement included the established fact that you want to focus on measures relating to family reunification, in particular the integration of people who settle in that country by that way, including by learning the language. It is good to read that, and you know that we have put forward a very concrete proposal in this House. We ask that, in the case of family reunification, this process of language acquisition and integration should start in the country of origin. Mr Secretary of State, will you confirm those words on page 80 of the coalition agreement and support our proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u33	Mr Francken, I suspect that this is part of the package of legislative proposals that I have received from your group? As I said, we are looking at all the proposals, including those of the opposition. Mrs Van Camp, when I hear from Mr Francken that parts of the coalition agreement seem to be constructive when you say that the whole coalition agreement shows that I am in favour of an open border policy, I would almost dare to conclude that you think that your colleague Francken is also partly in favour of an open border policy. I can accuse Mr Francken of a great deal, but I cannot support an open border policy. I see doubts with other colleagues in the Chamber, but well. Mrs Van Camp, as I said, I would like to answer the questions as well as possible, but you know how the process is going. I know how opposition and majority in Parliament are trying to ask their questions, but I think that in this case they are acting as constructively as possible. It must be remembered that at this stage, from the responsibility I have recently been given, I am preparing a policy paper. I must therefore first check within the government whether the models we will develop are actually supported by a majority. Then I'll present them here. I will not at any time try to avoid an answer to your questions in the legislature, but I am not going to tell you anything. At the moment, I do not have the policy paper I have to present to you. I will be able to answer all your questions in concrete terms. Yet here I am again trying to answer as well as possible. I've taken note of your bill. However, I would like to emphasise that there is a clear difference between what is included in the coalition agreement and what is contained in your legislative proposal. The coalition agreement focuses on the integration of people who are here on the territory. Your bill focuses on persons who are still abroad. I can assure you, however, that a good integration policy is crucial for the success of migration. Although most of this competence, as you will probably know, is with the Länder, I will do everything in my power to support integration policy as much as possible within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, I am indeed a very constructive representative of the people. I understand that it is annoying that we are asking a lot of questions, but that is precisely our position. We speak the voice of the people. It is a pity, therefore, that you do not recognise this and prefer to conceal it by blocking the debate on the subject and by turning our questions around here instead of coming up with answers on the subject. Several colleagues from the government have already come to Parliament. They have managed to provide concrete answers. I don't see why that should be any different for you. Parliament also has a controlling function. We must ensure that your words are translated into action. Here I can only conclude that you have registered in the coalition agreement that you do want to win on better integration and language. You are not saying that this applies only to the people who are here, but to the family reunification procedure. In order not to offend your coalition partners, you cannot confirm to this committee that you really want to take steps in this respect, for example by supporting our legislative proposal. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u35	Mr Minister, this question was actually put to your predecessor. Maybe she doesn't apply anymore, but just to be safe, I'm gonna ask them anyway. The Bulletin of Procurement published on 10 September that Fedasil is looking for a supplier for the purchase and supply of three copies of a zipper foil for the quarantine zone in the centre of Ghent. More specifically, it concerns the contract with the reference Fedasil 2020 2029. In concrete terms, three copies of a sealing film are sought quarantined with dimensions of 2.5 meters at 1.1 meters, with zipper to attach to the door. Its delivery must be carried out within a maximum period of 15 calendar days from the delivery of the order form and is expected at the Rigaai in Ghent. There lies the floating pontoon Reno, popularly called the refugee boat. Was there an unforeseen problem there in Ghent's asylum centre? If so, why wasn't that openly communicated? Was this quarantine zone intended to accommodate corona patients or was it another infectious disease that had appeared in the asylum seekers centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u36	Mr Van Langenhove, there has been no unforeseen problem. This is simply the quarantine zone for COVID-19, an isolation capacity provided for in all collective collection structures. This purchase is part of the precautions Fedasil has taken since the start of the corona crisis, in accordance with the Sciensano guidelines. It is therefore by no means a secret that Fedasil is taking measures to prevent the possible spread of COOVID-19 in its centres. Any collective residential structure must take action. The purchase in question therefore fits in with the establishment of a quarantine zone COVID-19. This zone is intended for residents who have either been tested positive for COVID-19 or have had a risk contact and are to be quarantined in accordance with the measures in force. If the quarantine zone cannot be set up in a separate building or on a separate floor, a physical separation shall be made to protect the quarantine zone. This measure applies to all Fedasil centres. We ensure that the corona measures are complied with as effectively as possible, so that the health of asylum seekers and those living nearby is not endangered. I hope you want the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, congratulations. I would also like to refer to my written questions. 55009205C and 55009767C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u38	Mr President, Secretary of State, I also congratulate you on your important new functions. I wish you great courage in carrying these things out. In this subject of politics, we often deal with passionate and exciting debates for a policy which, I am often surprised, while it arouses a lot of enthusiasm in the electoral debates, accounts for barely 0.11% of GDP and 0.26% of Belgian state expenditure. In addition, the policy of demand for international protection concerns about 20,000 people a year, which seems to me to be a straw, while some make it a beam. But it will be your job and I wish you a lot of courage because the job will not be easy. It will have to be demonstrated that it is possible to have a policy – as the government agreement has said – human but also responsible, fair and completely legal. I have no doubt that you will go in that direction. You'll have to prove that we can do things differently. It's not because we're human that we're naive. It is not because we are human that we let ourselves be; we will simply do otherwise. In any case, I would like to tell you that I will be attentive to your work and I am already very pleased with the answers you have been able to provide today. I wanted to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u39	Mr Vandenput, Mr Rigot, thank you for wishing me success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u40	Mijnheer Vandeput, Mr Rigot, thank you again for your warm wishes. As Mr Rigot said: "It is not because we are human that we are naive". This is a statement that I fully agree with. I am aware of the proposal. Article 51/5 of the Aliens Act provides for the possibility of such a measure. A working group with representatives of DVZ and Fedasil is currently examining the possible operationalisation of this proposed measure. With regard to the question of the figures on the returns of dublinés, the statistics on this subject will be provided to you as soon as possible. The alien law defines in Article 1 the risk of absconding as follows: "The fact that there are reasons to believe that a foreigner who is subject to an expulsion procedure, a procedure for granting international protection or a procedure for determining or transferring to the Member State responsible for examining the application for international protection will abscond with a view to one of the eleven criteria also laid down in the foreign law." Therefore, there is no margin of discretion for the DVZ. It is a long definition, to make it clear that there is no broad margin in the assessment by DVZ. These are, therefore, persons for whom the Member State responsible for examining the application for international protection is being examined. A person who is under house arrest and who is in breach of this house arrest may be the subject of a detention decision or his transition period may be extended from 6 months to 18 months if another Member State is competent for the treatment. The deadline for transfers under the Dublin procedure can only be extended in certain circumstances. Article 29.2 of the Dublin Regulation states: "This period may be extended to a maximum of one year if the person concerned could not be transferred because of imprisonment or to a maximum of 18 months if the person concerned takes the flight." It is therefore not possible to extend the transfer period altogether. The Foreign Office must be able to prove that the applicant deliberately evaded the Dublin procedure before the transfer period could be extended. This extension can be a more effective way of implementing the Dublin Regulation. In response to Mr Rigot's question, we must first distinguish between the risk of leakage and the leakage itself. In its judgments, the Foreign Litigation Council refers to the flight itself. The correct application of the risk of leakage criteria may be appealed to the Chamber of Council. These criteria are defined in Article 1§11 of the Aliens Act. The leak criterion applies to the extension of the transfer period provided for in the Dublin Regulation. As provided for in Article 29(2), the applicant must have actually fled. There is no specific criterion for determining when an applicant can be considered to have fled. In a recent judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that an applicant takes the flight within the meaning of Article 29.2 when he deliberately evades the competent national authorities to resort to his transfer, in order to defeat the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, I am glad to hear that there is no room for assessment in the field of hiding. However, the fact remains that there is a need to work locally, because a person who is ordered to leave the territory will often not be able to be found at the address where he should be, even if he is under house arrest. I believe there is still a little work to be done at the local level to close the net around that processed asylum seeker more quickly so that he, willingly if possible but obliged if he has to, has to leave the country. I hope to find that also in your policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I fully understand the need to avoid abuses in Dublin. Of course, I am not questioning the position of the Foreign Office. What must be important, however, is the role that Fedasil's staff should play in this house arrest. We know that it is not obvious for social workers to play the role of both the staff of a host body, the staff responsible for organising voluntary return, and the staff who may be obliged tomorrow to ensure respect for house arrest. What is important for everyone is that everyone should be well in his or her line and role in the future, so that everyone will feel well about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u43	I thought the first title was the most beautiful. That's why I'm quoting them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u44	Mr President, the title does indeed sound very nice, especially in today's harsh times. Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to congratulate you in your capacity as new Secretary of State and wish you every success in fulfilling your passion, because we cannot call it a job. Maybe we'll run into each other a little less. A question from me will occasionally be dealt with here in committee. The question before us dates back a long time ago. In the meantime, a lot of changes have already been made in this area, so that the original question has become largely without object. Mr Secretary of State, in the meantime there has been an additional evolution, on which I would like to ask you a question which is linked to the original question. Although it is already easier for lovers to see each other, because the rules and criteria have been relaxed and code red no longer means that the people concerned are not allowed to travel themselves, we have received messages from several people. They tell us that the problem is now mainly with visa applications. The website Visa On Web has been down for some time because of technical problems. Apparently this has been the case since 6 October 2020. Today we are 23 October 2020, which means that many people, although they meet all the conditions, cannot apply for the visa for technical reasons. My specific question is as follows. Are you aware of the problem? I hope so. Will you resolve the problem as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u45	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to join in the congratulations extended to you by my colleagues. First of all, I have to re-establish the context because many things have changed since my question was tabled. On 20 August, the National Security Council (NSC) took a decision that relieved the many couples who, in the absence of a marriage bond, could not cross the boundaries that separated them because of VOCID-19. This decision follows an important social media campaign. Since 1 September, persons who are not bound by a legal link but who maintain a lasting relationship can cross borders to find themselves, provided that they follow the testing and quarantine rules applicable to travellers. The lasting relationship is a relationship of at least one year and uninterrupted. Having children together is proof of this. This was a considerable step forward, except that the question of proof of this relationship was already raised at that time, which is why the NSC of 23 September relaxed the criterion of lasting relationship to target physically separated couples who had to prove at least six months of common life, a year of relationship or, as before, the existence of a child in common. The problem of proof of lasting relationship is still not resolved, in any case for some couples. Secretary of State, I have been stunned with my question between Minister Goffin and Minister De Block, between Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Wilmès, and I come to you with this question. I hope to get some answers. To what extent have the decisions of the NSC taken into account the relevant measures taken by other States? Can they oppose the reunion of couples? Is there any harmonisation of this rule between European States, at least at the level of the Schengen area? Who is responsible today for interpreting the lasting relationship that allows couples to reunite? Has a protocol been developed to determine what evidence can be adduced? Finally, what proportion of couples have been able to meet since the last decisions of the NSC? I believe that this data is essential in order to measure the relevance and, possibly, the excessive burden of this burden of proof.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u46	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I too should like to congratulate you very warmly. I'm looking forward to working well together and maybe putting the fire on you once in a while. On 20 August, the NVR decided that unmarried couples from outside Europe should be allowed to visit each other again from 1 September. Since the corona pandemic around the world, this has also had a huge impact on travel restrictions. There are examples of people who haven't seen each other for 8 months or more, couples who are engaged, couples who expect a child, where attending your child's birth is not considered as an essential movement. However, in a travel opinion of 30 June 2020, Europe had stated that EU citizens who have a long-term relationship with someone located outside the EU borders have the right to seek each other out. ‘The partner with whom the Union citizen has a durable relationship, duly attested.’
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u47	I would also like to endorse what Mrs Van Bossuyt said. The problems of issuing the various visas were also reported to me. That seems to have been the case since 6 October. Are you aware of that yet? What can happen, and within what timeframe? Are emergency solutions possible, possibly through the Schengen partners? In the meantime, what information is being provided to those concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your congratulations. One question about love, I don't know if as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration I'll get a lot of such questions. I can only hope that, questions about love are always more than welcome. I certainly understand this important question. The COVID-19 crisis takes a heavy economic toll, but also socially and psychologically the persistent pandemic weighs heavily. We are faced with a completely new situation, where we must always look for pragmatic and correct solutions to problems that arise, such as the problem you raise in your questions. The health crisis weighs heavily on the economy. But the persistent pandemic also has a serious social and psychological impact. We are facing a very new situation in which we must work to find pragmatic and correct solutions to the problems that arise, such as the one you raised in connection with your question. Since 1 September 2020 a short visit, of less than 90 days, to the person with whom a stable and sustainable relationship is maintained, has been considered an essential journey. In the following way it is proven that the partners maintain a sustainable and stable relationship. Firstly, the partners have lived together in Belgium or in another country for six months. Or, secondly, the partners have a relationship for at least a year. During this period they met physically at least twice for at least 20 days. If a visit had to be cancelled due to a travel restriction, the proof that the visit was planned can be taken into account for the second visit. Or, thirdly, the partners have a common child. Therefore, no criteria were used in the fight against marriages of convenience, but the criteria for establishing the stable and sustainable nature of a relationship in the context of family reunification. For example, transparent criteria have been taken back into account which have proven to be useful in the past. The conditions were already relaxed on 24 September. A short visit to the person with whom a stable and lasting relationship is maintained is currently considered an essential journey. These flexible conditions are available on the website of the Aliens Office. It is not enough to demonstrate that the planned journey is essential to receive a visa C or to enter the Schengen area. The actual partner must be able to prove that he meets the entry conditions for the Schengen territory when applying for a visa or arriving at the Schengen external borders by means of the necessary documentation. In addition to proof of the long-term and stable nature of a relationship, the de facto partner will also have to submit the following documentary evidence to the diplomatic or consular post: Schengen travel health insurance, sufficient personal means of living or a commitment to take over (Annex 3a) and return guarantees. This procedure is clear to all parties concerned and we see no reason to abandon it. Any future adjustment will always be discussed in consultation with the experts within the Government and the National Security Council. I wish everyone who has a relationship with someone from another country the opportunity to live love with joy and happiness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. However, I have received absolutely no answer to my question about the fact that since 6 October there has been no request for a visa because of technical problems. The words of love you uttered are very beautiful, but in practice it means for many people that they cannot put love into practice, if I may put it that way. I would therefore like to receive a reply as soon as possible by written procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u50	Secretary of State, I am pleased to hear that you also attach this importance, more than ever in these difficult moments, to love. Your previous colleague, Mr. De Crem, indicated that love knows no limits. Today, it is true that love is still difficult to implement when you do not live next to each other, and soon, if it continues, if you do not live together. It's important to do the part. Measures must be proportionate to health risks. I sometimes feel that these measures are more based on the protection of international migration-related movements than on common sense. It is known that the health crisis is already causing a great deal of isolation, burn-out, and has an impact on people's well-being. It's a second tsnumani coming. I really believe that today, after seven months of VOCID-19, everyone needs to feel that there is hope and that the measures that will be taken will only be there to avoid spreading the pandemic and to protect its citizens. I count on you to make this love live with a great A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u51	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answers. I understand that the criterion of a lasting relationship has therefore been adopted because it is already the one which is used for the granting or not of family regularisations. We are not at all at the same time. We are talking about Belgian citizens or Belgian residents – in any case for one of the couple – who are trying, despite the health crisis, to join. To use a criterion used in immigration law to transfer it in the event of a health crisis makes no sense to me. Perhaps that is why you said that in a second stage, this criterion could be subject to a possible future adjustment. It's a very good thing, but I wonder on what basis. Indeed, you did not answer my question as to the proportion of couples who were able, despite or under these criteria, to find themselves. An adjustment is possible, but how and when can this adjustment be made? I finally have more questions than answers. Thank you, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u52	Thank you for your commitment, Mr Secretary of State. I would ask you to keep looking at what else is possible. We've made the comparison with other countries. They turned out to have a better adapted scheme. What other countries can do, we should also be able to do in Belgium. Love is not tourist. That is why I would again like to make a warm plea for the reunification of unmarried couples. Those people love each other, but they stay separate from each other. This, of course, leads to dramatic situations. We don't have to draw a picture. Of course, the contagion rates are rising and there is a second wave, which makes it extra challenging, but still I would like to call for permanent work to be done. In these difficult circumstances, connectedness is particularly important. In these very difficult circumstances, each other's proximity is the highest good. We are all aware of this now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that it is still difficult to deal specifically with matters which we will discuss in the policy papers, but I would now like to ask you a question about something you yourself have said. Especially after your oath, you said to Radio 1, "What's in a particular name, I will take all the necessary legal initiatives, which I can take to act against people who clearly refuse to take part in the return." So I have a simple question. Are you for or against residential entrances? What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u54	Miss Van Camp, you heard me right on the radio. At that time, I practically literally quoted the coalition agreement. That was on the radio then, not Danira, by the way. Maybe some of them are a little jealous and want to sit next to Danira; I can always pass on a text and then that can happen. In any case, return policy is a particularly important aspect of asylum and migration for me and for the whole government, and so I would like to make it a priority, as I have just clarified a few times. As I said on the radio, I will take various initiatives to this end. The government agreement clearly states that abuses and a lack of cooperation will be addressed. Again, that will be looked at in the government and I will come up with some very concrete proposals on this as soon as possible. As I mentioned several times in the sitting, the Bossuyt Committee's final report contains a lot of interesting information as well as a lot of policy tools. The final report will be one of my various sources of inspiration in the formulation of proposals. I will, of course, discuss these proposals first in the government and I promise you again that I will come to Parliament with them afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you must first agree with the government whether you are for or against residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament 55009283C by Mr De Vuyst is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, I congratulate you on your appointment as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I wish you every success. My question concerns the recent ruling of a court which obliges Belgium to take asylum seekers directly. The French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels condemned the Belgian State in summary proceedings on Monday 5 October because it does not offer asylum seekers immediate reception after informing the Foreign Affairs Office online that they want protection. Asylum seekers have had to make an appointment with the Foreign Affairs Office on an online form since the beginning of April, if they wish to apply for asylum. Then they get an e-mail with an appointment. Only with that appointment can they go to the registration centre, but in the time between filling out the online form and the appointment at the DVZ they do not get shelter and end up in the street. That ultimately led to the conviction. The judge now obliges the Belgian State to take the necessary measures to ensure that asylum seekers will receive reception as soon as they report online. The State will receive 30 days for this, after which a penalty payment of 2,500 euros will apply per day of delay, with a maximum of 100,000 euros. Do you intend to appeal against the court's verdict? How are you going to deal with this in concrete terms? If you don't appeal, how will you solve it? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, Mr Safai has outlined the situation. I have two further questions. What will you follow up on the verdict? It is absolutely essential to avoid coercive measures. Will it succeed in finding a solution within 30 days, or will you still appeal? When could the physical registrations of asylum applications be restarted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, the Court of First Instance condemned our country for not receiving asylum seekers immediately after registration. How will the policy respond to this? Reception of asylum seekers is an internationally protected right. As you know, there has been a debate on the online registration of asylum applications for a long time. The disadvantages of this digital procedure are known and described and documented in detail. They've also been covered in the media. That is one of the reasons why the coalition partners in the coalition agreement made the agreement that the DVZ will resume physical registration as soon as possible. Is there any prospect of timing and concrete modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u60	Mr Minister, in the condemnations against Fedasil, it is not so much the questions of periodic penalty payments that call on me - certainly there will be periodic penalty payments from Fedasil and it would be regrettable for the finances of the State - but first of all, it is to say that, under the most precarious conditions, the most terrible, while being welcomed is an international law, decisions have been taken leading particularly vulnerable people, because they do not have resources, medical aid or accommodation, to be on the street. What are the causes of this defect in the head of the bodies concerned? What measures are being taken to put an end to this situation? What is the cost to the budget of asylum and migration policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u61	I could have appealed. That's a piste that was used occasionally in the past. But in this case, there's no point. There's no reason to appeal the verdict. Moreover, such an appeal would not be suspensive. I will therefore comply with the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance. Together with the various competent services, my cabinet has already taken various initiatives to respond to this without compromising the security of staff, interpreters and applicants for international protection. There have been several meetings with those involved. There is a daily follow-up of the situation. I myself visited the Klein Kastiltje a few days after my appointment to personally discuss the situation with the staff. I agree with colleagues that we should avoid periodic penalty payments. We will therefore have to find a solution within 30 days. For reasons of clarity, physical registration at the arrival centre has already resumed in April. It was only briefly and temporarily suspended. The court did not rule on the resumption of the physical registration that began again in April, but on the provision of shelter when people requested an appointment to report to the arrival centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u62	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It is clear that we have a problem when it comes to care. That's what we're trying to bring up. The expectation is created among those people that there is enough room here, but if those people come here, we can't even offer decent shelter. That is why we are in favour of a model such as the Australian model, which you have just referred to as inhumane. I don't think you know exactly how we see it. You may think this is inhumane. That is not what we are arguing for. However, we are in favour of a human shelter. What is happening in Europe today is just as inhuman. One cannot leave people on the streets for a few days or months. I am also thinking of the shelter in Lesbos or on all the other islands. Now, that's inhumane. We can provide shelter beyond Europe's borders to those who deserve protection. The people covered by the Geneva Convention can then be legally brought here instead of allowing illegal migration. Then we can speak of a human policy. That is what we want to achieve. I hope that's what you're going for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u63	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for clarifying why no appeal was made. You confirm that there will be a solution within 30 days. I'm looking forward to that. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, I agree. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I agree with you: the truth has been said in law. It would therefore make no sense to go on appeal for the aspects referred to above. On the other hand, we must not give the flank to those who consider that we would be overwhelmed by events. That's not the case. We had the capacity. I can understand some of the reasons for the decision, namely the willingness to protect staff - whether at the Foreign Office or at Fedasil. It's human, because this fear of the pandemic has been experienced everywhere. For the rest, the choice made by the Agency was linked to the finding that a quarter of the staff were missing during the peak of the pandemic. It is these reasons that led to this situation, but certainly not the lack of places. You like me, we know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, the facts were committed on the night of 13 to 14 July 2020. Almost 40 cars were damaged in Turnhout. The next day, the killer was identified. If the report is correct, it was a 27-year-old illegally from Tunisia. The police informed the area of Turnhout that the person concerned had been arrested and had already been ordered to leave the territory. The incident raised some additional questions for me. Firstly, if it is true that it was an illegal person who caused the damage to private property by private individuals, who will compensate for the damage in that case? Do you know that in the case mentioned? If you cannot comment on that individual case, could you perhaps indicate it in a broader context? Will everything be done to make the illegal in question pay for the costs? Second, what happened to the killer? He's been ordered to leave the territory. However, we know that the follow-up to such an order is not always successful. Has there been any possibility of an expulsion here? Thirdly, what measures do you take to ensure that illegal persons involved in such acts can be effectively expelled in as many cases as possible? I do not know if you can come back to the individual case in question, but perhaps you can also outline it in a broader context. Finally, if in such a case a repatriation cannot or will not succeed, what is being done to make the offender pay for those facts anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I can sometimes understand that you are frustrated or disappointed because I cannot yet answer certain questions concerning my own competence. I find it more difficult to understand that you are frustrated when I answer to you that I am not competent, either for compensation or for the prosecution of those involved. I'm Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. A large part of your questions are questions that you must ask my colleagues. I hope, therefore, that I can reassure you in that regard that it is not a conscious choice not to reply. Unfortunately, however, I do not have the authority to do everything. I will not go into the individual situation here either. However, I would like to make it clear to you what the general line is. Where a person is illegally resident in the territory, that person shall be removable. If there is room in a closed center for those places we also want to take care of, he or she will be able to be held for disposal. In recent years, there has been a strong commitment to the expulsion of persons in illegality who commit criminal offences. I will continue to do so in the years to come. I hope that promise will satisfy you. For example, the government agreement also provides that new places in the closed centres will be reserved as a priority for persons who commit crimes, pose a threat to public order or cause nuisance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u68	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u69	Mr President, Mr Mahdi, the British Minister for the Interior, Priti Patel, states that in future the British Government will systematically refuse asylum to migrants who cross the Channel by boat or use another illegal route to enter the United Kingdom. According to the British channel BBC, it is about, I quote: 'the biggest revolution of the British asylum system in decades'. That is, of course, very understandable because, as you know, they are exceptional times. The British Minister wants to give migrants a different treatment according to whether they have paid smugglers to enter the United Kingdom or not. I come to my questions. Firstly, do you think that people who illegally enter our country and have broken our laws should be entitled to asylum? Secondly, do you think it is fair that immigrants who pay smugglers and who illegally enter Europe and Belgium should be treated in the same way as immigrants who follow the legal path? Thirdly, what do you think of the British Minister's proposal, Priti Patel? Will you take an example? I would like to have clear concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u70	Mr Van Langenhove, I would like to begin my clear answer by stressing that we are living in a rule of law and are therefore bound by a number of elements. The conditions for obtaining international protection are laid down in the 1951 Convention on Refugees and in the European Qualifications Directive. These are legally binding documents. Those legally binding documents lay down grounds for excluding someone from international protection. Irregular entry into Belgium is no grounds for this. Now, the government agreement does stipulate that the fight against both trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings will be stepped up. As regards the fight against trafficking in human beings, priority is given to combating smugglers and the dismantling of networks. The new European Migration and Asylum Pact, launched by the European Commission on 23 September 2020, also provides for a five-year action plan against trafficking in human beings, focusing on cooperation with third countries on capacity building, information exchange and information campaigns. Frontex and Europol will provide operational support where necessary. The United Kingdom is no longer bound by the European Qualifications Directive after the Brexit. However, it was transposed into national legislation. A national legislative amendment will therefore be necessary if Minister Patel wants to implement her plan legally. The United Kingdom will continue to be bound by the 1951 Convention on Refugees, which provides that any person meeting the applicable criteria will have to be protected as a refugee, and Article 31 expressly states that illegal entry of a refugee cannot be punished. So I will not follow the example of Minister Patel, since both the 1951 Convention on Refugees and the European Asylum System do not allow such a practice. In addition, it ignores the core of international protection, namely the protection of persons in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u71	Mr Mahdi, what you are actually saying is that Britain, but also, for example, N-VA and many moderate parties in Europe are neglecting human rights and international treaties. Of course, that's not true. It is only logical and fair that, when determining whether migrants should be granted a right of residence or asylum in our country, we should take into account whether or not they have complied with our laws. You refer as a solution to the Migration Pact. Indeed, it contains a number of vague claims about human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. However, they serve as sweetener to push an inedible dish, which is this Migration Pact, through the throats of mainly Eastern European countries. Luckily, that didn't work out. The British are aware of what's in there. They realise that this pact will not limit the influx, that it does not want to shut down the tap at all, but wants to flood the whole house evenly, that they do not want to stop the flow of migrants, but want to spread them. Using that as an argument against illegal migration and against smuggling is quite bizarre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to return to what you have just said. You said that you should coordinate things at government level. I would like to have some understanding for that. Perhaps I can reformulate my question in that respect by asking you if you will defend the file of the identification procedure with the government. You may already be able to answer that. It is a side effect, which several bodies have warned against in the hearings on the Bossuyt Committee's return policy. Several services that have been heard fear that if they do not opt for a comprehensive return policy, the government agreement does not indeed provide for this - for more abuse on the basis of age. It is a definite fact that the return policy under your flag is being undermined and we know the side effect of it thanks to the experts. Mr Secretary of State, do you feel encouraged by the support given to the government for age controls and, above all, for the charging of the cost of age checks to those who abuse on the basis of age? To this end, Mr Safai has already tabled a legislative proposal. Will you defend that in the government or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u73	Mrs Van Camp, I shall reply again first in relation to the division of powers. The identification procedure and therefore the control of age are the responsibility of the Voogdij Department, which is responsible for the age determination when the Foreign Affairs Office raises doubts about this. So that doesn't fall within my jurisdiction. You also asked me how I look at this personally and whether I would submit a proposal to the government in this regard. I can only tell you that I will consult effectively with my colleagues. A clear understanding and control of the age of persons is important so that there can be no abuse. In this respect, you can certainly count on my support for increasing age checks. After all, it is important that those who deserve support and care get it. Others can't take advantage of it. I'll take that in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, thank you, that is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, it is the youth movement today, and I know that you were in it yourself. "No slogan but a goal," that was the first year theme when I joined the scouts. Not a slogan, but a goal, going beyond the slogans to a goal, to concrete actions, that is what we expect from a government. This afternoon, however, we mainly saw a government that excels in slogans, in words. That is not entirely illogical because the team is new and the parties in this government are not the most natural coalition partners. The policy papers are not yet available, and you are dealing with a government agreement that has not really been discussed in detail. We now see the consequences, many words but little, of what you are going to do, of concrete actions. However, I would like to take a look at the specific dossier of the asylum centre in Koksijde. Will you continue the line of your predecessor Mrs. De Block? There was an asylum shelter, but it was closed in July. Will it remain so, or do you have plans to open a shelter there again? I ask this question because a number of residential containers were placed on the site. The centre has been closed for months now but the containers are still there and I can imagine that something more useful could be done with them, especially in corona times when there is a need for quarantine options among other things. What plans do you have with these containers? How long will they stand? What's the cost of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u76	Mr Loones, the Agency has an agreement with the Defence Department on the possible use of the site until the end of 2020. As long as there is an agreement, the reopening is possible. Of course, it depends on the needs of the reception network. The containers will be removed before the end of the agreement between the Agency and Defence. The rental period of these containers runs until 31 December 2020. The cost of the containers in Koksijde is about 8,800 euros per month, including steel driving plants. You have been given the complete overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the clear answer, at least as far as the figures are concerned. The ambition of the reception network is a point that we will follow closely, also in view of your answer to our other questions. I conclude with another scoutsleuze, "the first sight beyond," a slogan that I will certainly pay close attention to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, the so-called Channel Route has been on the elevator since 2018, but this year there is a clear peak. According to the French prefecture, between January and the end of August 6,200 illegal migrants tried to cross the Channel. About 1,000 of them were intercepted by the French, while according to the British authorities more than 5,000 migrants succeeded. That's three times more than last year. The crossing appears to be increasingly successful. Almost 80% achieve its goal, which naturally encourages potential happiness seekers to take their chances. Since the Treaty of Le Touquet was concluded in 2003, France has committed itself to keeping migrants from the illegal crossing, for which it is paid by Great Britain. Two years ago, with the Sandhurst Convention, the country added EUR 50 million. Since a few weeks French and British would be working on a new plan to block the route across the North Sea. For the time being, Belgium would not be involved, which would, of course, make a real solution more difficult and could possibly cause the problem to shift to our shores. For this, Ann Lukowiak, federal magistrate, warned people smuggling. How many illegal migrants have already attempted to cross the Channel this year? In the meantime, do boats with illegal migrants leave the Flemish coast? How many boats were taken by the Belgian Coast Guard? How often did Belgian rescue services or the Coast Guard advance to pick up illegal boat migrants in the North Sea? What steps has Belgium already taken to get involved in the French-British talks on a new plan against human trafficking? Will Belgium also receive money or other support from the United Kingdom in the fight against illegal migration across the Channel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u79	Mr Van Langenhove, unfortunately for the questions about data and police cooperation, I have to refer you to my colleague in the Interior, who has to give the data. I understand the question. These are very pertinent questions, by the way. Of course, I intend to work very well with my colleague. That is certainly very important in that respect. I encourage you to ask the question, because the figures can help us to tackle this problem much better. It can generally be said that the Belgian coast is not a classic starting point for the United Kingdom. The distance to be travelled from the Belgian coast is twice as large and the current is against. Migrants usually leave at the point where the Channel is the narrowest and that is in France. When boats are located in Belgian territorial waters, they have left France and are already in difficulty on departure off the coast. I am aware of the problem. For this reason, the competent services and international partners such as the International Organization for Migration are working on projects with the United Kingdom. These projects include prevention and strategic communication that should discourage migrants from making the dangerous crossing. In addition, we work closely with the United Kingdom in the port of Zeebrugge on vehicle and ship controls. Finally, as set out in the government agreement, the government will deploy on a humanitarian path providing a sustainable solution within the existing residence procedures or a return route. The government, together with the Länder, is investigating possible accompanying measures to prevent the nuisance of transmigration, including in highway parking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u80	Perhaps I should conclude from the absence of a concrete answer to the question that Belgium is not involved in these new talks between Great Britain and France and that perhaps no steps have been taken. I hope that is the case or that urgent steps will be taken. You say that the Flemish coast is not a classic starting point for transmigrants to Great Britain. Of course, the problem is likely to shift to our coastal region if there is no sound approach in cooperation between France and Great Britain. Hopefully, steps will be taken to prevent this. These steps are, of course, in a sound cooperation between the countries around the North Sea. You're talking about our international partners. Hopefully these partners are not only the International Organization for Migration, but also the British Government. Let's focus on the new conversations. All other initiatives are good, but the most important thing is, of course, cooperation with Great Britain and France.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u81	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, let me in turn congratulate you on your appointment, hoping that the asylum and migration policy that will be pursued will be transparent, objective and sort of a certain political show that no one needs, whether it is the citizens of this country or the people who aspire to join it. My first question concerns the protection of LGBTQIA+ migrants. A number of migrants arriving in our country belong to the LGBTQIA+ community. As such, their life course is made all the more difficult by the fact that this part of their identity has caused them multiple discrimination, both in their country of origin and on the road to exile and sometimes even in our country. It would appear that the CGRA's treatment of this issue is somewhat blurred and unobjected. Some people, however, coming from a country where homosexuality is clearly criminalised, may be denied asylum on the pretext that "it is possible to live by being discreet in that country without being discriminated against." However, a 2013 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union pointed out that counseling a homosexual person's discretion is not admissible. Mr Secretary of State, do we have figures, broken down by country of origin, on asylum applications made due to fear of persecution related to sexual orientation? Are the staff of the Aliens Office and the CGRA trained in the psychological specificities that may result from discrimination related to sexual orientation or gender identity? What measures are in place by the Aliens Office to protect this public from further discrimination upon arrival in our country? Are specific refugee-type institutions offered to such persons during their asylum proceedings? With regard to LGBTQIA+ people who are currently seeking asylum, does Fedasil provide for specific reception and follow-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u82	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, thank you for your congratulations. There are no statistics available on the number of applications for international protection due to fear of persecution related to sexual orientation at the time of application. This is due to the following reasons. This element is not necessarily mentioned in the first interview with the services of the Aliens Office. There are also technical reasons. In order to have reliable statistics, this element should be integrated into the statistical data bank from the outset. If this is not done systematically, these data are not representative. On the other hand, statistics on the decisions taken by CGRA on this ground are available. It is, in fact, perfectly possible to introduce this parameter into the database, after an in-depth analysis of the file. On the basis of the analysis of the CGRA's decisions, in 2019 a total of 616 cases were cited as "sexual orientation". The top 5 countries for which this reason has returned most often are Iraq (90 cases); Cameroon (75 cases); Senegal (51 cases); Morocco (33 cases); Afghanistan (23 cases). As you can see, when I have the data, and when I can give the information, I provide it in the most detailed way possible. The assessment of applications for international protection falls within the competence of the CGRA, an independent body. Within CGRA, a specific, particularly in-depth framework has been developed for assessing requests based on fear of persecution due to sexual orientation. This framework was developed in collaboration with experts. The training of protection officers dealing with these files is complete and ongoing. Therefore, pretending that the CGRA processes these files in a somewhat blurred and unobjective manner does not reflect reality. Similarly, the claim that an application would be refused on the basis of the fact that it is possible to live by being discreet in a country without being discriminated against is an assertion contrary to the policy pursued at CGRA. With regard to the registration of the application for international protection by the Office for Foreigners, Agency officials were made aware during their training that they should pay attention to the various vulnerabilities, including those related to sexual orientation. In addition, the applicant for international protection may indicate whether he or she wishes to be assisted by a male or female treating agent and/or interpreter. It does not fall within the competence of the Office for Foreigners to protect foreigners on Belgian territory from discrimination by third parties. Everyone can appeal to the police in case of fear or violation of Belgian criminal law. With regard to the reception of applicants for international protection (IPD), Fedasil does not have a specific reception structure for this target group. For IPRs with specific needs, the Agency will make every effort to designate these IPRs concerned to a more appropriate place (small capacity centre, specific individual place, ILA or other). Throughout the reception route, Fedasil pays particular attention to the specific needs of vulnerable groups, especially LGBTQIA+ people. As part of its project funding, the Agency has for years been planning projects to raise awareness and equip people and residents on this topic. Since 2019, the agency has been financing a project of this type with the Rainbow House in Brussels. I've spoken long enough, but when I'm asked to be detailed, I am, and so I'm less brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much. I did not expect such a detailed answer. I'm not used to it. It should be noted that this question was asked a few months ago and that since then some projects have been started. I think you're pointing to a problem. I don't know if it's up to you. Culturally, these people are not always informed of the rights they enjoy in Belgium because of their sexual orientation. When you talk about attending the hearings, they are stipulated, but sometimes there is this fear of not being able to assume his sexuality in front of a CGRA staff member, when you come from a culture where it was not possible at all. When you talk about the possibility of complaining to the police, it's sometimes a brake, as I've noticed on the ground. I'm not saying there's a miracle solution. That's a point to think about later. When I said "a little blurry", the information I received indicated that certain specificities of training, particularly in terms of the public vulnerable to CGRA, were optional and not always systematic. If you think it's the opposite, I'm very happy to hear it and it's worth digging that part. I thank you, in any case, for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, there are many obstacles to an efficient and effective return policy, both at home, which unfortunately does not seem to be much improvement, but also at foreign level. In the coalition agreement we read that the government will examine what incentives and levers can be used at national or international level to improve cooperation on return. It's another investigation. A little further in the agreement, however, it seems that this government already seems to exclude two possible instruments to increase pressure on third countries in advance, in particular development cooperation and the transfer of funds from migrants to their home countries, the so-called'remittances'. In the meantime, experience has shown that positive levers, more or less, are not enough to persuade third countries to fulfil their obligations and commitments in this area, simply because the Non-compliance was not sanctioned, less for less. In short, the long-term lack of cooperation, or even outright opposition, of certain third countries shows that it is not enough to give these countries a root, but also to be prepared to keep a stick behind the door. Unfortunately, the European Commission's plans in this context, the EU migration pact you have just mentioned, do not seem to bring much news. Firstly, which levers at national level are you thinking of in concrete terms? Secondly, are you prepared in principle to offer not only a root for countries that cooperate, more for more, but also a stick behind the door for countries that do not want to cooperate, less for less? That is a fundamental question, so you do not have to anticipate certain things. You do not have to ask your green coalition partner what to say here or not. It is a question of principle, and you can simply answer it. Thirdly, are you prepared at Belgian level to link issues such as development cooperation, and therefore investment by companies, to the willingness of third countries to take back their illegal nationals? Fourthly, as it turns out, the transfers of funds from migrants to their home countries have been increasing in recent years. Are you prepared to use this element in your policy? Finally, are you prepared to advocate, at European level, in particular during the discussions on the EU migration pact, a firm attitude towards unwilling third countries and also to put sanctions in place to that end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u85	As stated in the coalition agreement, it is my intention to explore what incentives and levers can be used to improve cooperation on return. It is important to stress that the objective of improving cooperation with third countries is at the heart of this. It is clear that this is not an easy task and that all factors must be able to weigh. My predecessors, colleagues from other EU Member States and the European Commission have already made efforts in this area with varying results. I also want to learn from their experiences. Any action must be tailored to the country of origin in question. The international perspective is also taken into account. Migration does not happen in a vacuum, but on the contrary is strongly subject to the geopolitical and bilateral context. The incentives and levers that can be used will be investigated country by country. Carrot or stick, I could talk about that in general terms, but that doesn't make much sense. I think that we should, in particular, look at country by country what is possible and what initiatives should be taken, where the objective is clear to everyone, in particular to strengthen the cooperation of third countries, because that is what we will need if we are to optimise the return policy. Moreover, a country-by-country approach is essential in order to achieve results. For me, the FPS Foreign Affairs is a natural partner for the sake of diplomatic expertise and development cooperation. It is equally possible to set up cooperation on matters falling within the competence of the Home Office or the Department of Defence. The government agreement stipulates that development cooperation cannot be subordinated to the migration agenda. I think they can reinforce each other on the contrary, or at least be carried out in parallel. I am thinking here of technical assistance projects on population registration. Investment decisions, on the other hand, remain the prerogatives of the private sector and are not, as such, seen as an incentive or leverage that the public authorities can impose. Similarly, financial transfers from private persons to countries of origin are a personal choice of the persons concerned. These cannot serve as a token for return. In addition, it will be examined where it is appropriate that Belgium subscribes to a common EU or Benelux approach. There are already a number of means that the EU can use as sticks and carrots in return policy. I am thinking here of visa-limiting measures for countries which do not cooperate sufficiently in return. I think this is one of the sticks you're referring to. In the field of development cooperation, the EU is also committed to the commitment of African countries to return. That too is something that needs to be looked at at at European level. It is by joining forces that we can effectively use the resources we use in this area, either as a carrot or as a stick, to motivate countries from Africa to cooperate. Finally, the EU is increasingly considering using EU trade policy to negotiate a more global relationship with third countries. Belgium has always supported this integrated approach and I personally will always do so at the European level with my European colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u86	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you say that we will look at what is possible in each country, but my question was more of a matter of principle. Is it possible that some countries may need an approach consisting of one or more sanctioning measures if they do not cooperate? I have heard you say a number of things in this direction which I am genuinely satisfied with. You also refer to the European Union which would expect that there would be a certain willingness for development cooperation for those third countries - in this case African - to cooperate in the return policy, but the government agreement does contradict that. The government agreement states, contrary to what the EU would ask, that such development cooperation should not be used to encourage those third countries to participate in a return policy. That will still have to be tested by your government whether we will follow the European Union or your green coalition partners. Finally, I would like to point out that it goes without saying that private trade is the prerogatives of the private sector, but the government can provide a certain direction such as trade missions for which the government itself has the prerogatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u87	Mr. Secretary of State, I wanted to ask you about the so-called "golden visas". Some countries, such as Malta, Cyprus and Bulgaria, are pinned for having granted "super passports" in exchange for investments. Between 2017 and 2019, 1,400 applications for these passports, known as "golden visas", were approved by the Cypriot government. These "golden visas" allow people engaged in illegal activities, including commercial activities, to work and travel unhindered throughout the Union, including in Belgium. This was introduced in particular in 2019 by the European Commission. My questions are as follows. Does Belgium have any information on the identity of persons benefiting from such "golden visas"? Can it prevent these people from entering Belgian territory? Have we done this before? Has Belgium ever asked other European countries such as Malta, Cyprus or Bulgaria to revoke the right of residence of persons who have benefited from such "golden visas" and who are guilty of illegal activities on Belgian or European territory? By what means does Belgium support the work of the expert group of the Member States responsible for analysing "golden visas" programmes? Is Belgium in favour of a European legislative initiative or the introduction of proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the countries concerned to find a possible infringement of European Union law? I must complete by admitting that since the tabling of this question, Cyprus has announced that it will put an end to this policy of "golden visas". My questions are more about Malta and Bulgaria. That's pretty good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u88	Mr Moutquin, I will try to answer as quickly as possible to give other colleagues the opportunity to ask further questions, but interpreters will be angry if I speak even faster. So I'll limit my speed by answering you. Three Member States of the European Union - Bulgaria, Cyprus and Malta - are in fact applying "golden visas" schemes for investors. These three countries do not provide for the obligation of physical establishment for the individual or other real ties with the country prior to the acquisition of nationality. These schemes are of common interest to the European Union, in so far as any person who obtains the nationality of a Member State acquires citizenship of the Union at the same time. However, the conditions for granting nationality currently remain exclusively a national competence. The schemes mentioned involve security risks which are just as important for the Member States as for the European Union as a whole. On 23 January 2019, in its report on citizenship and residence by investment programmes in the European Union, the Commission also expressed its concerns and stressed the need for greater transparency and effective and independent monitoring of these systems. Following this report, the Commission set up a group of experts from the Member States to examine these risks in depth and to draw up a document containing non-binding recommendations for Member States applying such procedures. Belgium, which does not have such systems, has always endeavoured - at European level - to raise awareness of the possible negative effects and abuses on the free movement of persons and to combat them with a view to reducing them. As a result, it has actively contributed to the work of this expert group. On 20 October, the European Commission opened infringement proceedings against Cyprus and Malta concerning their "golden visas" programme. It considers that the granting of citizenship of the European Union by its Member States in exchange for a pre-determined payment or investment, and without the fact that persons acquiring nationality report a real link with the Member State concerned, is not compatible with the principle of fair cooperation enshrined in the Treaty on European Union. According to the Commission, this also undermines the integrity of the status of the citizen of the European Union, as provided for in Article 20 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your full answer. It is worth keeping an eye on the Commission's work on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, following the fire in the Moria camp, the European Commissioner responsible for asylum, Ylva Johansson, said that she no longer wanted a new Moria, promising that the EU would make sure that it did not recreate it. Despite these promises, the NGO Médecins du Monde warns that there is already at least another camp similar to that of Moria, the Vathy camp on the island of Samos. In this camp, which is also overcrowded, humanitarian teams are outnumbered. The situation is therefore explosive and fires are already reported. In addition, the new camp on Lesbos Island, Kara Tepe, still lacks adequate infrastructure. In particular, there is a lack of sanitary facilities and accommodation adapted to winter conditions. Its location, which is very exposed to the weather, gives rise to fears of a rapid deterioration of living conditions. Finally, humanitarian organizations active in the camps, including Amnesty and Médecins sans Frontières, have been insurgent about the strict and uninterrupted sanitary confinement of migrants since March. This measure appears to be particularly discriminatory and unsuited. Mr Secretary of State, Belgium has already provided first emergency logistical assistance via B-FAST. Is communication with the Greek authorities maintained in order to assess whether further aid from Belgium is needed? What is the status of the relocation of migrants, to which your predecessor had committed herself? How many migrants have already been allowed to apply for asylum? Of these, how many are unaccompanied foreign minors? Do you intend to inform the Greek authorities that discriminatory treatment in public health measures is contrary to human rights in general and to the rights of migrants in particular? What position do you intend to adopt at the level of the Council of the European Union in order to find a structural solution to end the indignity of camps such as those in Moria, Kara Tepe or Vathy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u91	Mr President, I will be brief. I think what we all want is answers. We are pleased to have a lot of them today. Mr. Moutquin summarized my questions. I refer to my written question and I await the answer of our Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u92	Mr Secretary of State, the questions have already been explained in detail. In short, it is about the humanitarian situation in Moria, which remains dramatic, even with the new camp which does not really provide a solution to the situation on the ground. You rightly said that looking away is not an option and that Belgium will accept its responsibility. This is in line with our country's human and solidarity in the event of emergency situations abroad. Can you elaborate on that in general? Are there any concrete plans by the government and what is the state of play within the European Union at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your very important question. You may have seen on the social media, especially on Twitter, that I have already made it very clear that looking away is not an option. As a country, we must send out a very clear and strong signal of what we ourselves are supposed to do, of the humanitarian attitude we are supposed to take at international level. The other European countries also have a responsibility in this area. I will therefore continue to spread this message to the attention of my fellow Members. The situation was poignant before the fire, during and immediately after the fire it became even more harrowing. The circumstances in which these people now live are, in many cases, terrible. I will therefore make every effort to resolve the situation as quickly as possible by bringing forward a solution as soon as possible in cooperation with all European partners. B-FAST intervened at a bilateral request from the Greek authorities. This was a logistical contribution, including blankets, tents and others, which was delivered on September 12. Following the fire in the Moria camp, Belgium committed to relocate an additional 12 MENA and 100 to 150 people to a future stadium. This commitment made by Belgium following the fire has not yet been operationalised. A meeting with the relevant authorities - the CGRA, the Office of Foreigners and Fedasil - took place yesterday to implement this commitment. Yesterday, we had this meeting and we are insisting as much as possible on moving things forward. I wanted to reprosecrate him. The Greek authorities will have to decide where to build a new camp by next summer. Prime Minister Mistotákis raised the subject with the President of the European Commission, because he wanted the latter to be more active in the management of the camp. President Von der Leyen said the Commission will be strongly involved in the situation in Lesbos. European funds for construction are also available. While there were 21,000 people at the beginning of the year in the Moria camp in Lesbos, and 12,500 at the time of the fire, only 8,000 people are still present on the island. And there should be only 6,000 left by the end of November. The new Kara Tepe camp accommodates 10,000 people. Thus, 20 per cent of the capacity remains. UNHCR highlights the speed with which the Greek authorities immediately evacuated the MENA (406) to the continent, while women victims of physical or sexual violence were placed in shelters run by NGOs. The authorities intend to continue the decongestion of the Aegean islands, including Lesbos, through the resumption of the acceleration of asylum procedures, the implementation of forced returns of rejected asylum applicants and the relocation of applicants for international protection, including unaccompanied minors, to which several Member States have committed themselves, including Belgium. Belgium participates in the discussions organised by the European Commission in order to be able to follow the evolution of the relocation programmes of MENA as well as of other people from the border countries. As part of the negotiations on the European Pact on Asylum and Migration, Belgium insists that a system will be developed that works in practice. Belgium wishes each Member State to assume its responsibilities without delay and to participate in the proposed solidarity mechanism. Of course, support will have to be given to border countries so that procedures can be carried out effectively and that those in need of protection have rapid access to them. As you may know, on 23 September 2020, the European Commission launched its proposals for a new European Asylum and Migration Pact, which I have already referred to a number of times in committee. The German Presidency is speeding up discussions and expects a clear commitment from Member States to contribute to the new system by the end of 2020. There is a proposal to give priority to the regulation on EURODAC and the new European Asylum Agency. Belgium supports the proposals, as they will provide a clear operational advantage and provide better objectiveisation of the discussions. In addition, concrete proposals are on the table to improve border surveillance through rapid and efficient procedures at the border, which will allow identification of those who really need protection and lead the others back. It will be a comprehensive approach in cooperation with the countries of origin and the transit countries. Legal migration and protection channels will also be addressed. Although Belgium is questioning the financial aspect of the ambitious proposals, we agree in principle to continue the discussions on this basis and, where possible, we will play a driving role in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u94	Mr Secretary of State, I will address two aspects of the humanitarian situation. First, I am pleased to know that, according to you, we are moving towards an improvement in numbers. However, NGOs remain concerned about the living conditions in Kara Tepe camp. A solution will be found for the summer but winter is soon there. Although the camp has enough places, there are still health and security issues, according to information from NGOs. We must remain vigilant about that. I am very pleased to know that a meeting was held to realize this commitment of 100 to 150 people. I regret, however, that it is only now that such a commitment was already made a few months ago, but you are not responsible for it. Secondly, you have cited a great deal of the European Migration Pact. Indeed, the question is European solidarity. We talked about sticks and carrots about migrants earlier. It could, however, be mentioned in relation to certain European countries which refuse solidarity and which may also have to pay fines or be subject to sanctions, since they enjoy the benefits of the European Union but refuse the solidarity which, however, falls to them. I am thinking in particular of the PiS party in Poland, the Vikto Orbán party in Hungary, and others. As far as the Migration Pact is concerned, I encourage you to encourage Parliament to take up a debate on this fundamental subject. That would be interesting and, for my part, I point out many dangerous elements in this pact in terms of international law and solidarity. I shall eventually propose to the committee that a calm debate be held within it on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u95	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your reply and for your committed position, which comforts me because it is in line with the message we were waiting for: Belgium can, of course, pour only a drop of water into the ocean, but it must carry a message at European level with a view to a common migration policy. Of course, we have to move the lines. In this regard, I am reassured. On the other hand, the administrative delay of six weeks since Belgium decided to welcome more vulnerable people - 150, to be exact - represents an eternity for these people in a situation of terrible precariousness. I hope that you will be able to percolate your committed speech to your administration so that it can act now. The situation requires an urgent response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u96	Thank you for your rather comprehensive answer, Mr Secretary of State. In any case, it is a good thing that Belgium wants to take a balanced but assertive or committed position in this European debate. It is a good thing that Belgium is taking on that role. I am also pleased to hear that yesterday the operationalisation of our previous commitment was started. This commitment will accommodate twelve unaccompanied minors, children without parents, from Greece, together with one hundred to one hundred and fifty other persons. That's a good thing. It also illustrates the fact that there can be a considerable period of time between a decision of principle and its implementation. You yourself said in your reply that these are people in distressing situations, and we can ask ourselves whether they can really wait months for such a decision to be put into effect. Kara Tepe is indeed not a solution. This has also been extensively described in the media. Unfortunately, as is often the case, there is probably no hope of a European consensus before assistance is given. We look forward to further progress. You are right to say that this is a dramatic human situation. We must indeed be able to provide assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u97	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Moutquin, it's 5:00 p.m. I should normally leave you to go to another meeting, but I will take the time to answer your question. As Belgium does, every migrant arriving in the territory of the European Union must be treated in accordance with European regulations and directives, and in accordance with international law and current European case law. This implies that pushbacks and direct and indirect refoulement are prohibited. If some EU Member States violate these rules, it is mainly the European Commission that must take appropriate action. In addition, the European Courts are competent to rule on the alleged violations. In the framework of the European negotiations on the Pact on Migration and Asylum, Belgium will continue to insist on the development of a system that works in practice and respects European and international law. Belgium wants everyone to do their part and is certainly ready to participate in the proposed solidarity mechanism. Of course, support will have to be given to border countries so that procedures can be carried out effectively, and those in need of protection will have rapid access to them. Strengthening the relevant European agencies, such as the European Asylum Support Office, is one of the measures proposed by Germany, the current President of the European Council, to improve the situation in the border Member States. At the JHA Council on 8 October, Belgium supported this proposal. Here's a final answer. Since I will not be able to speak later, I would like to thank all the members of the committee. I would like to thank all the members of the committee once again. I know that this is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, but it was the first sitting and I am very pleased with the constructive attitude of my fellow Members. I hope that we can continue to work in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u98	Thank you for the lovely words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u99	Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased with the answers provided and the figures cited. Personally, thank you. With regard to the question I asked you, I am terribly concerned that the New York Times clearly investigated and showed that migrants were being sent back on boats, which is not in accordance with any international rules, by the Greek Coast Guard. Yesterday, the Guardian launched an investigation into cases of very violent push back on the Croatian and Bosnian borders, where we went with colleagues in the European Parliament. There is an urgent need to recall the fundamental rules of international law at the borders of the European Union. I count on you to insist on this at the meetings and committees that you will be attending at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-23-55-commissie-ic287x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence and his answers. The questions that have not been addressed today due to lack of time will be discussed next Friday afternoon.
