ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u1	Mr Minister, my question about the French-speaking juvenile judges who would release minors is outdated, because last week's question was about the threat of releasing young people who should be arrested. This is also the period of the year in which there is a lot of nuisance. Those young people must therefore be able to be sure and secure. However, I read that the release has already taken place. So there are young people who should have been arrested. That didn't happen. The French-speaking juvenile judge says he did not hear the request for consultation with you. The Genes cabinet wouldn't take any action. Since Sunday night, the juvenile judges have been releasing the young. They claim to be unable to do the work of four judges with two. Their agenda is full, but they have still not received a date, time or location for a discussion. Mr. Secretary, is there a meeting planned? Is there more than promises to fill vacancies? Promises aren't enough for juvie judges. They can no longer handle the work, hence the pressing questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u2	Mrs Gabriels has informed me that she has been prevented today. Mrs Rohonyi has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u3	Madam President, the context has been explained by my colleague, but I think it is important to come back to it in spite of everything. On 24 June, judges of the Brussels Court of First Instance held a demonstration in front of the Portalis building in order to denounce the lack of resources, in particular the lack of staff. This event follows a letter addressed to you the day before, Minister, which urges you to increase the number of clerks in the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. Otherwise, the juvenile judges warned that, as of Monday, 29 June, it would no longer be possible for them to treat all cases equally, so that cases concerning minors at risk would have to be prioritized to the detriment of cases concerning juvenile offenders. In other words, since Monday, all juvenile offenders to be tried in Brussels have been released, regardless of the seriousness of the offence for which they are being prosecuted. Judges no longer have a choice and denounce a situation that has persisted since 2015, mainly in view of the numerous absences due to illness and a large number of departures without replacement in good time. In plenary on 25 June, Mr. Minister, you announced that in order to overcome the slow pace of statutory recruitment, contractual recruitment was also under way. Contracts would be under development. You also announced that, pending the recruitment of clerks, authorization had been given to grant thirteen additional staff members temporary clerks. These solutions are positive but do not solve the root of the problem, namely the failure to fill the framework, especially in Brussels. Minister, what short-term but also long-term responses do you provide to the requests of the youth judges of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels? Shouldn't a consultation with the unions take place before July 7th, as you announced last Thursday? I think that in view of the release announced this Monday, a consultation must be possible before 7 July. We can't afford to wait until then. What about the consultation with the Chiefs of Staff on short-term recruitment but also on a real reflection to encourage candidates to apply and stay in Brussels? Lastly, could we not establish a pool of judges who could be mobilised in the event of retirement without waiting for the end of lengthy appointment procedures? Thank you already for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u4	Minister, at the French-speaking court of first instance, the juvenile court apparently carried out its threat. Young people arrested are no longer immediately brought to court, but are immediately released. We read in the press that at least one minor has already been released. Minister, the recent riots in Brussels included 14 minors among the 22 arrested. You replied to an earlier question I asked you about this. In the case of new riots, but also in the case of other offences involving minors that are arrested, Justice will therefore remain absent if they are to appear before the French-speaking Brussels court. How do we explain this to the victims? How can this be explained to the people, who have been satisfied with lax policies for a long time? In what way does the constant call of the French-speaking Brussels magistrate that Justice is understaffed and barely has the resources to work properly contribute to creating an attractive environment that attracts applicants so that the staff shortage is eliminated? This kind of action damages the justice system in a number of ways. Minister, the personnel policy of justice has been sued for a long time, but never before has it led to the refusal of a judge to do his or her job. This is a serious obstacle to the functioning of the justice system. Minister, how are the frameworks currently being completed in the French-speaking court and the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels? Since when are there deficits? What is the state of play with regard to the seven transferred clerks of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in order to strengthen the French-speaking courts in 2015? Is this temporary transfer still ongoing after five years? Which recruitments are planned? In what way are you going to take action against this refusal of work? What sanctions are possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first point out that, last Thursday, I have already answered a question from Mrs Gilson on the same subject. Therefore, I will not be able to provide much additional information, although I will be very long. You all referred to the situation of the French-speaking court of first instance in 2015. There was indeed a catching-up movement at the start-up of the French-speaking court. Prior to the BHV reform of the Brussels judicial district of 2012, the court had 206 French-speaking staff, 193 at the Registry and 13 referenda. In November 2015, there were 258 and in June 2016 the court had 260 members of staff at the Registry, on a framework of 314. You will appreciate that this is a significant increase. Influx has not increased in the same way as the number of cases dealt with. At present, the Registry has an effective 252.7 full-time equivalent plus a presence of 11 referenda. The number of posts at the level of the Registrars shall be 112 on a framework of 134 or 83.5 %. The office of judges is much higher in Brussels. I do not judge Brussels as one of the better frameworks of the country on quality in terms of number. As explained last week, there is no separate framework for judicial staff for the Youth Court. Within the Court of First Instance, the Chief Registrar distributes the staff among the various sections, including the Youth and Family Court section. This difficult situation of the judicial staff in Brussels is the result of a large staff rotation and change, absence from sickness and retirement and insufficient laureates in selections. Account must also be taken of the fact that one third of the Registry staff and of the Registrars must be functionally bilingual. The filling of statutory vacancies is difficult and slower than hoped. The COOVID-19 health crisis disturbed the rhythm of selection in March. Indeed, a specific promotional selection of Registrar was already published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 February 2020 before the French-speaking Court of First Instance. There are 45 candidates. The interviews for this are now being rescheduled after the crisis. The completion of statutory vacancies depends on the presence of sufficient recruitment reserves. Selor published in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 June 2020 a global recruitment selection of level C for all public administrations, including the judicial system. Postulate can be done until 3 July. I have written to Secretary David Clarinval, responsible for Selor, asking Selor to launch a similar recruitment selection for level A and B in the short term. The staff drop was already picked up in 2019 by my administration and the College of Courts and Courts and recruitment procedures have already started. I refer to the figures in my reply last Thursday. In order to be able to recruit more quickly, 42 contractual places have been awarded this year: 11 in February, 7 of which are now in service, 31 in April and May, the selections of which have now been completed. My administration is now waiting for the P.V.s and the list of laureates from the court to draw up the contracts. The procedure for the 10 additional vacancies awarded in June is also ongoing. At present, the implementation of statutory recruitment takes many months. Several actors, such as the Selor, the courts, the Federal Public Service (FPS) and the Colleges, are involved. Furthermore, the procedure does not guarantee the release of a winner at the end of the procedure. For these reasons, we are currently focusing on contractual recruitment, which is faster and also facilitates the recruitment of external staff. However, the supervisory authority rightly requires that statutory vacancies be launched before making contractual selections. It seems to me to be in the interest of the Judicial Order that all the actors concerned should work together to analyse and shorten this process. I would like to suggest that the Selor organise its general selections on the move, not just in Brussels, in order to increase the number of candidates. As far as the refusal to work is concerned, it does not belong to the Minister of Justice to give instructions to magistrates. He's not their discipline either. It was regrettable that the judiciary was taking action when consultation was planned and measures had been taken to address the problem. It's a bad signal sent to Brusselsers and victims in particular. As soon as the unions referred to the problem of judicial staff, I replied that I was open to consultation. I regret to have heard, through the press, that there had been no reaction to the magistrates' complaint when an invitation for consultation had already been sent to the court on 19 June. The meeting, originally scheduled for 29 June, had been postponed to 7 July at the request of the court. I would point out that, during the previous legislature, the budget allocated to magistrates and judicial staff has increased. In 2014 and 2015, they received a total of €634 million. In 2019, an additional 694 million (64 million) had been allocated to them over five years! As far as the Dutch court and prosecutors in Brussels are concerned, there are currently three Dutch-speaking clerks who have an assignment in the French-speaking court. The Dutch court of first instance has an occupation of 85.5 %, the parquet 91.35 % and the parquet Halle-Vilvoorde 89.7 %. There are 18, 11 and 2 vacancies for these entities respectively. In 2017, the Supreme Court of Justice carried out an audit of personnel management in all courts of first instance. You will find the report on the website of the Supreme Court. Finally, Madam Chair, the problem is neither the lack of recruitment attempts nor the lack of resources. The difficulty for justice is that it does not necessarily find the people it needs, not to mention the very slow selection procedures. Above all, as far as Brussels is concerned, several changes and rotations result from the preference expressed by several people to work in the province. This is therefore a structural problem that we are all facing and which I have tried to fill as far as possible, with all the energy we have been able to devote to it. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attentive attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer and your decision. There is indeed a very long selection procedure. Cannot be reviewed, because this drags on months and months. The COOVID-19 situation is, of course, exceptional, but the selection procedure should be much easier. We can see that a lot of work has indeed been done in the field of recruitment. Those were cases that were planned in February. There's been an increase in recruitment. The resources are there, too. I'll take a look at the audit of the Supreme Court. Can it not also be considered what problems are caused by the change, staff turnover and absenteeism? We may not have a clear view of that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u7	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer, as usual. I understand that one of the reasons why the recruitment process is so long and complicated is, in particular, because some judges are required to be bilingual, which is a nonsense to me when they have to sit in unilingual chambers. We could think about that. For the rest, I am pleased that the framework in Brussels, in any case as far as judges are concerned, is quite important. We cannot satisfy ourselves with this until it is properly filled, as required by law. At the same time, it must also be realized that the cadre of clerks must also be filled, since magistrates need clerks to be able to ensure proper trials and to be able to make quality decisions. I also think that we need to reflect on the framework as such. You have made a commitment throughout the previous legislature to assess the workload of the courts and tribunals, and in this case the youth court. This work must be able to take place, especially in view of the alarm cry launched today by the youth judges. Finally, you deplore the action taken by these magistrates today despite the ongoing consultation with yourself. We should consider the reasons for this action. I think there is a breach of trust between you and the magistrates, because this is not the first time that you have denounced "punching" actions carried out by the magistrates despite ongoing consultation. If they have come to such an extreme solution today, it is because the situation is no longer tenable. Working with nine clerks out of the fourteen planned is just unmanageable. You are announcing recruitment procedures It's very good, but it's been years since these recruitments were announced. It's a bandage on a wooden leg. It has been known for years that the framework in Brussels is insufficient. This calls for more lasting solutions than those in progress. I continue to be concerned, on the one hand, about the follow-up of those young people who have been released, and, on the other hand, about the support we have to give to these judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I continue to regret the action. First of all, this is a pity for these young people, because we all know that there is a great deal of recidivism among young people and that it is quickly going the wrong way if we cannot act quickly, which is the case now with these actions. I do not think it will solve the structural problem of lack of attractiveness in the work at the Registry. Such actions really do not help to make the work situation attractive there. I also find it a little strange that the letter in question comes from the juvenile judge. I wonder why it did not come from the President of the Court, who is her representative. I also wonder whether there was no possibility of moving staff through the Management Committee. I recall from your reply that seven clerks were transferred in 2007 and that at the moment three Dutch-speaking clerks are still being deployed in the French-speaking court. However, I continue to regret that it is being rushed into such a rush. I respect the working conditions, but I do not think it is possible for things to be rushed so far. It's almost a denial of justice. Young people, who need to be kept short, are now getting the signal, even if it goes wrong the first time, "Go ahead, we won't do anything about it, because we might have a conversation in about five months and then we'll see where it stands." That is even announced in advance. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe that young people should be made aware of their responsibilities and that it is the task of the magistrate to do so in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u9	Minister, last week's question also dates back to the fact that Zaventem's town hall was smeared with the slogan 'death to the whites'. People here in the house are full of hate speech and threat from the far right. All of a sudden, all of a sudden, everything was quiet with the colleagues. Apparently such slogans can be. Mayor Holemans was talking about vandals. We think there's something else going on. These are political slogans, which demonstrate the dangerous attitude of the authors. They're not just slogans. It is a direct call for deadly violence. In our view, they are covered by the offences included in the anti-racism legislation. Were those vandals already identified and arrested? I have another question that I'm not supposed to ask you. Are you assuming that we are simply dealing with a vandal area or is there something more going on for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u10	Mrs Bury, the Attorney General of Brussels has informed me about the incident that an investigation has been opened and is still ongoing. So far, no suspects have been identified or arrested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u11	Minister, you replied very briefly and not even at all to one of my questions. In any case, such matters must certainly be followed up. We do not want to see America's whole problem imported here. We must keep our finger on the pulse as far as such practices are concerned. I hope you share the same view and that you do not minimize these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u12	Madam President, Minister, on Wednesday 24 June the Federal Prosecutor's Office carried out a search of the Doel nuclear power plant site and another at ENGIE's headquarters in Brussels. These searches were reported in the press. They are said to have taken place in the case of the sabotage of the Doel 4 reactor, which took place in August 2014, six years ago. At the time, one or more unidentified persons had intentionally opened by hand the discharge valve of an oil tank in the reactor turbine, which had completely decommissioned the turbine. Minister, could you confirm this information? Did these searches take place in the Doel 4 reactor sabotage case? If so, could you tell me what investigative duties still need to be carried out? Finally, in the press there is mention of a trampling of the investigation. What exactly is the situation? Would a date for a trial be in sight?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u13	Mr Cogolati is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u14	Mr Thiébaut, since this is an ongoing investigation, I can only provide you with the information made available to me by the federal prosecutor. I quote his answer. "On the basis of the current elements of the judicial investigation into the incident at the Doel power plant on 15 August 2014, the investigating judge considered it necessary to carry out the search of the Doel nuclear power plant on 24 June 2020. No search was carried out at ENGIE Electrabel's headquarters in Brussels, as this did not prove necessary. The investigation act is part of the objective search for the truth of the judicial investigation, which is still actively under way. In the interests of this investigation and taking into account the secrecy of the judicial investigation, no further information may be provided."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u15	Minister, thank you. I understand your reservations about the secrecy of the investigation. You will allow me to be surprised at the length of this investigation because the facts date back six years. We still do not feel that we have any information about this sabotage, which is worrying in the area of nuclear security as sharp and sensitive as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u16	Madam President, would you like me to ask the four questions one by one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u17	You can do it, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u18	Minister, I am addressing my first question. As part of the fight against radicalism and proselytism in our prisons, many measures have emerged since 2015. Among the tasks that are now assigned to prison staff is the screening of prisoners' visitors. It is of course essential to be able to carry out this screening with the people who visit radicalized prisoners. What screening of visitors is currently being carried out in our prisons? Does this screening concern only visitors to detainees who are registered as radicalized, convicted of terrorist acts or are being radicalised, or are they also referring to other categories of persons? In addition, how are the visits of Deradex detainees carried out? How many screenings of this type have been carried out since 2015 in all of our prisons? By whom are they carried out and what is the procedure for the transmission of information in this respect? What is the legal framework governing this screening? Do you consider it necessary to adapt it? The second question relates to the works that are in circulation in the Deradex sections. Minister, you will recall that in May 2018 we were very surprised when we read a report by the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) on the formation of imams in the Great Mosque in Brussels. OCAM had indeed analysed the textbooks used for the academic training of imams; some of these textbooks clearly advocated a radical ideology close to Salafism. We know that the indoctrination of religious radicalism and extremism increasingly go through social networks, videos and websites, but printed books may also contain texts advocating acts and values contrary to our democratic principles and fundamental freedoms. The rule governing the presence and use of books in prisons is laid down in the Law of Principles. There is no doubt that culture, reading and education are tools that facilitate social reintegration. But we also know, and we see, that some books may have a much more pernicious and dangerous character. Minister, section 77 of the Law of Principles provides that the director of the prison may prohibit a reading to an inmate if the reading "is contrary to order or security". In your opinion, do these concepts include the control of texts and publications that promote radicalism, religious proselytism or terrorism? Or, on the contrary, do you consider that the notions of order and security are more restrictive and do not relate to these notions of radicalism? What security criteria are established to accept or prohibit a publication in our prisons? What control and selection are they made with regard to the content of prison libraries, the provision of books during visits by prisoners, whether radicalized or not, the remote purchase (I imagine it is possible) or the loan to prisoners? Which prison service controls these works? Is the prison management alone empowered to do this work or are officers mandated to do so? What is DG PPE's competence in this area? Is there a distinction made in the control of prisoners imprisoned in the Deradex sections or in satellite prisons and other parts and spaces of prisons? Are there any restrictions, for example imposed by judgements and involving specific control of certain detainees? Finally, did the Central Prison Supervision Board deal with the issue of the authorization of works within prisons? My third question relates to the evaluations that were conducted in the Deradex sections. Minister, I have already been able to ask you about the organization of the Deradex sections created on your initiative in 2016. As part of the fight against radicalism in our prisons, so-called "satellite" prisons have also been set up, sometimes even before the Deradex sections. As Mr Dantinne recently pointed out, for the past two years we have refined the expertise in radicalisation processes. We also heard a week ago from the director of Ittre Prison that three evaluations have been carried out since 2016. Minister, what conclusions are drawn from these three evaluations of the Deradex sections? On what criteria and expert reports has it been decided to place only hate preachers and religious proselytizing prisoners within the Deradex sections? What other assessments have been carried out on the work carried out in the satellite prisons in Lantin, Andenne, Ghent, Bruges and Saint-Gilles holding convicted persons for acts of terrorism and violent radicalism? What differences exist in this area between the operation of the Deradex sections and these satellite prisons? Have these evaluations analysed the work of community services in these special sections of institutions? Based on these assessments, do you consider these sections to be still working properly and meeting the objectives set for them? My last question concerns the functioning of the Penal Enforcement Court (PAT). Indeed, according to what we heard at the hearings in the Committee on Justice some eight days ago, it seems that the sentencing court is not in possession of all the information collected by the various public services competent to monitor and monitor detainees and ex-prisoners. On 23 June, the director of Ittre Prison, Ms. Lebrun, stated that the TAP did not have the security clearance called "State Security", which had been granted to prison directors for some time. In the context of convictions for acts related to terrorism, we have been informed that the TAP is not in possession of State Security information and decides on the release of convicted persons detained for acts of terrorism or in connection with terrorism without necessarily having in its possession all the relevant information from the State Security. This situation is challenging. Could you please tell me whether it is true that prison directors cannot provide the information of the State Security which they possess about a detainee? Do you confirm that the TAP is not an entity that has received a security clearance and therefore no TAP member has a security clearance giving it access to State Security information, for example on a detainee who is to be released? How is the TAP inmate information procedure structured? What follow-up and support services for detainees (e.g. the Centre for Assistance and Care of Anyone Affected by Violent Extremism and Radicalism (CAPREV)) does the TAP receive reports and information concerning convicted persons for terrorist offences? What types of information does the TAP not have access to as part of the files to be processed for electronic release or surveillance of prisoners convicted of violent radicalism and/or terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I do not have as many questions as my colleague, Mr Pivin, but I agree with him. Indeed, the hearings we had a few days ago on the deradicalisation or, in any case, disengagement processes in the Justice Committee were particularly enlightening and raised many questions. As a reminder, on 23 June, the Committee on Justice organised hearings on the organisation, monitoring and results of deradicalisation, disengagement and reintegration programmes in Belgian prisons. We were looking forward to a lot; indeed, in the Justice Committee of 26 April 2017, you already told Mr.Maingain that the evaluation report of the Deradex sections was being finalized. You said the same thing in January 2019 and in February 2020. So it has been three years since you told us that this evaluation is being finalized! From these hearings, several interesting observations emerged, which were raised by Mr Pivin. First, the federal prosecutor explained in a letter to the commission that he is still not aware of the program that one or the other person would have followed during his incarceration. Secondly, the TAP is also very little informed about the actual disengagement programmes. As radicalised people remain among themselves, it is difficult to distinguish who is evolving in a positive or negative way. As for the director of the prison, she told us that she had already participated on three occasions in an evaluation of the Deradex section of the prison, which would also take place for the Hasselt prison, while ignoring what has been done about these famous works. Therefore, Minister, why does not the exchange of information between prisons and judicial authorities take place more optimally or automatically with regard to the disengagement programmes in prison? What measures are being taken or will be taken to address them? When will we have this famous official evaluation report of the Deradex sections and satellite prisons? Who is involved in this evaluation? Why does she take so long? Do we have all the necessary elements to do so? What conclusions do you draw from the initial results of this evaluation? Do you consider that the current system needs to be improved? If so, how? Are you in favour of an obligation to follow the disengagement programmes in the event of a conviction for acts of radicalism or terrorism, or to put in place ancillary penalties or security measures once these detainees have been released from prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Pivin, it was probably last week's hearings in this committee that raised many questions about radicalisation in prisons, the Deradex sections, satellite prisons, visits and the exchange of information. In these respects, I give you an overview. I would remind you that a new action plan was adopted in November last year, as I mentioned at the follow-up meetings to the report of the Committee of Inquiry. Let me turn to the questions relating to the evaluation of the Deradex sections and satellite prisons and the problems of deradicalisation and disengagement. The Deradex sections have three objectives: containment (containment), standardization and disengagement. Containment means the isolation of the inmates concerned so that they do not negatively influence or cause the radicalization of their fellow prisoners. Standardization means the development of an optimal detention regime. The aim of disengagement is to bring about a change of mentality so that the persons concerned no longer wish to lead or participate in extremist actions. There is not yet a final evaluation report. I asked the prison administration to give it the highest priority. Maintaining a longer stay in the Deradex section is only possible if the framework is also developed and the objective of standardization is pursued. A varied offer can meet this need. This includes activities, work, recreation and sports. In the short term, the concept of the Deradex sections will not change in depth. For the time being, it is particularly important to define the mission and vision of satellite facilities. Indeed, the policy of deradicalisation in prisons must certainly not be approached solely from the point of view of the Deradex sections. As far as satellite prisons are concerned, I should like to inform you that no evaluation has been carried out, as they are still in full development. The contours of the operation of satellite prisons are established by the division of competences between DG PPE and the services of the Communities. Cooperation agreements have been concluded in this regard. The services of DG PPE are responsible for the development and monitoring of the course of detention. The Communities are responsible for assistance and services. These two routes must lead to a suitable individual detention plan. On the choice of profiles placed in Deradex, they stem first of all from the choice not to go towards a grouping of all radicalized prisoners. Such concentration seemed counterproductive to us. Given that some profiles are grouped, it is logical that the prisoners targeted are the ones who are most likely to spread radical ideas if they remain in the ordinary sections of prisons. With regard to the legal framework for screening visitors to detainees, the Law of Principles provides for two categories of visitors. The family, as described in the law, is in principle always allowed to visit with limited exceptions. For the category of visitors other than the preferred one, the article specifies that the director must give prior individual authorization. The Director may refuse such a visit only if the person concerned cannot assert a legitimate interest or if there are individualised indications that the visit may jeopardize the maintenance of law and order or security. The final decision to refuse or admit a visitor belongs to the Regional Directors of DG PPE. Naturally, this assessment of refusal or authorization pays particular attention to indications of radicalism, extremism or other dangers on the part of the detainee or visitor concerned. Screening is done by crossing all registered visitors with the list of people registered in the common database. The analyses are carried out by the Extremism Unit of DG PPE. In the event of concordance with a known identity of the common data bank, the information shall be transmitted to the security partners, to the competent Directorate-General, who shall, in accordance with the law of principles, carry out an evaluation and take a decision on the visit. There are no exact figures for the number of screens performed. For the Deradex section of Hasselt, these visits take place in the ordinary parlor, but at a time other than ordinary visits. For Ittre, visits to the Deradex section detainees take place at the same time as the other visits, but they are closer to the surveillance officers. In my view, the provisions of the Act of Principles concerning visitation show a good balance between the right of inmates to maintain contact with the outside world and the requirements of order and security. They also comply with human rights rules. DG PPE is not requesting amendments to the law. With regard to Mr. Pivin's question concerning publications in prisons in the Deradex sections, article 77 of the Law on Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners provides for the possibility for the Director to prohibit certain publications and texts where this is absolutely necessary for the maintenance of law and order or security. In practice, some books may be refused to a particular prisoner. The various units of the prison, including management, psychosocial and supervisory staff, can play a role in this evaluation. As part of Plan R, a working group on the issue of Salafist literature was set up. It is composed of experts from the State Security, the Federal Police, the OCAM and DG EPI and provides support to improve the filtering of accepted publications in prison. The prison directorates facing this screening are also directed to the Extremism Unit of DG EPI, which consults with the intelligence and security services. The prison administration is not aware of any convictions imposing restrictions on the reading of certain books. However, when certain forms of execution of the sentence are granted, the courts of enforcement sometimes impose prohibitions on access to certain books or websites. I am not aware of any treatment of the issue of the authorization of works by the Central Prison Supervision Board. In response to questions from Mr. Pivin and Ms. Rohonyi concerning the information of the Penal Enforcement Court, the handling of applications for the execution of sentences and early release by the courts for the enforcement of sentences was always accompanied by a reasoned opinion drawn up by the prison administration. The Director bases his opinions, inter alia, on the reports prepared by the Psychosocial Service, if necessary on psychiatric reports, on the conduct of the detention and the related incidents. It also bases its opinions on the progress of previous arrangements, such as prison leave, and on a social reintegration plan submitted by the detainee. Since the law of 5 May 2019 that I have initiated, the file relating to persons convicted of terrorism or radicalized convicts must also contain a report from a service or person specialized in issues related to terrorism and violent extremism. Moreover, according to the 2019 law, this report must also include an assessment of the need to impose an appropriate accompanying route. At the hearing of the Sentencing Tribunal (PAT), the Director is heard on his or her views and questions may be asked. Disengagement programmes can therefore be well addressed. In many cases, the file also includes a social investigation conducted by the courthouse into the host environment in which the convicted person may be found. The Public Prosecutor's Office is also required to issue written notice and to request oral notice at the hearing. The TAP may always decide, within the limits of the law and with or without the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to request information from certain other persons or services. They may also be heard at the hearing. These may be services for the support and treatment of convicted persons. Here too, disengagement programmes can also and possibly complement each other. The issue of the use of classified information at the level of the TAP does not seem to me to be primarily a security clearance problem, since the judicial authorities are exempt from this. The difficulty comes mainly from respect for the principle of adversariality. The effect of this principle is that the convicted person has access to the file, which therefore cannot contain this type of information. The possibilities to derogate from this principle of criminal procedure are very limited. To the question of whether I am in favour of an obligation to follow the disengagement programmes in case of conviction for acts of radicalism or terrorism, I can respond positively by referring to the above-mentioned law of 5 May 2019. As far as the imposition of additional penalties is concerned, I have already stated before this Parliament that I am in favour of extending the provision of penalties to the court and that I will support such a bill. Thank you, Madam President, Mr. Pivin and Mrs. Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u21	Thank you Minister: I will need a little time to analyse more fully the answers you have given me. It's natural, given the battery of questions I've had to ask you. I've been pinning a few things. First, you told us from the start that there is not yet a definitive evaluation of the operation of Deradex. I believe it is time to have one and to be able to learn from it after three or four years of operation. I am all the more surprised by the reflection made by the Director of Ittre, who publicly wondered what had happened to the evaluations. In all cases, it will need to be documented on the status of the evaluations in which it participated. Your response to screening reassures me, and I understand well what is happening in terms of filtering and the role of the Extremism Cell (Celex) in this procedure. On the other hand, you tell us that the Directorate-General for Penitentiaries (DG EPI) does not support a system change. We heard Mr. Van De Voorde, Director-General of DG PPE, told us that there was undoubtedly a lack of legal clarity in the field of screening. I therefore think that it would be appropriate to start a consultation on this matter with DG PPE, which we believe is more reserved than your answer suggests. With regard to the literature on this issue, I have heard that the Federal Radicalism Action Plan (Plan R) allowed for the establishment of a group of experts to screen the works, which is rather reassuring. With regard to the Criminal Enforcement Tribunal (PAT), I have today, thanks to you, an additional answer to a question I constantly ask myself about the potential lack of information from the PAT. Of course, the adversarial principle, which can hardly be circumvented, must be taken into account - and it is certainly not I who would argue for such a circumvention. However, I do not wish that at some point, when a release occurs at an inappropriate time, the TAP would invoke its lack of knowledge of such or such information. Here too, I believe that the key must be the consultation between the various stakeholders, who, as we know, are numerous in the matter of liberation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u22	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. I understand that there is already a reflection on the effectiveness of the concentration of radicalized profiles. In my view, this reflection is paramount because this concentration can have counterproductive effects. I regret the fact that we still do not have a definitive evaluation of the Deradex cells. This assessment is necessary, not only for our parliamentary work - including the proper follow-up of the recommendations made by the Attentats Committee - but also to avoid the recurrence of radicalised people and the radicalisation of those who enter prison. I am fully aware that this is an extremely difficult task, which requires a concerted effort between the federal government and the federated entities. Experts themselves are aware of the impossibility of completely deradicalizing a person, but it is always possible to deter someone from translating their ideas into violent acts. I also know that the many actors involved in this work - prison directors, prison officers, prosecutors and judges - are motivated. However, if we want them to remain mobilized and to maintain that motivation, we must provide them with the necessary tools. Thus, alongside the training they are taking, they must also have access to information. You have told us that steps have been taken to that end, but I think they are still insufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u23	Madam President, Minister, the Royal Decree of 15 December 2019 entered into force on 1 January 2020. Article 11 of that Royal Decree states that only in exceptional cases a report must be submitted to the valuation firm. By means of a report, we mean the translation carried out. According to opinion No. Furthermore, 156/2019 of the GBA should never be delivered to the valuation firm. In practice, however, it appears that valuation agencies of translators and translators require them to send the translation with the cost statement. Incomplete files would not be dealt with, by order of the FPS Justice Department. This seems to be contrary to the secrecy laid down in Articles 28quinquies, 97 and 90quater of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Moreover, such reports are often exchanged by e-mail. The GBA was also very critical, for safety reasons. That is why I have a number of very specific questions on this subject, Minister. First, translations often contain confidential information. It's often about criminal records. Is the GBA's opinion taken into account that there is no reason to inform the valuation firm of the substantive work of translators and legal experts? Secondly, sworn translators and tap interpreters are told that the officials handling their invoices have also taken the oath." What oath is this about? Does taking that oath mean that these officials have access to all confidential information from judicial investigations and investigations? Thirdly, police detectives and magistrates do not appreciate sharing information from ongoing investigations. However, if translators refuse to forward their translation, including to the valuation service, they risk not being paid. They also risk a prison sentence, fines and a professional ban if they violate the secret of the investigation. Actually, they're in the middle of something. Was there sufficient consultation with the judicial system on this matter? What guidelines does a translator have to follow in order to act correctly when submitting and billing a translation? Fourthly, have the security risks involved in the exchange of claims, reports and translations been investigated by e-mail? How is the exchange of information containing sensitive information ensured in a secure manner? Finally, when will claims and the supply of contracts carried out in criminal matters and the handling of court fees be fully digitally handled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u24	Mr Segers is not here. Minister, I give you the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u25	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, since 1 January 2020, the district-by-arrondissement valuation offices have been carrying out the valuation of cost statements of performance providers and they are submitting them to the liquidation agencies to make payments. The valuation firm is not a third or external body providing the services. The service shall be manned by staff assigned to the judicial order under the hierarchical responsibility of the Chief Registrar of the Court of First Instance. At the time of taking up their duties, all staff at the valuation firm took the legal oath and were bound by the deontological code and by professional secrecy. On the basis of concrete elements of the report, the valuation firm should verify that there is correct invoicing. In the case of translations, this is done on the basis of the number of words in the report. For the performance of a translator, the rate is fixed per word. The Bureau therefore checks the number of words, not the content of the document. Of course, there are limitations in transferring documents via e-mail. During the information sessions in each district, these restrictions were clearly stated. Exceptions are, in particular, the transmission of personal medical data via unencrypted mail, confidential or secret information under the Security Classification Act, transcriptions of telephone taps when the claim so states, very voluminous translations that the recipients cannot reach and translations where the investigating judge or substitute explicitly states to the claim that it cannot. In those five cases, the transfer of the first page of the translation and the last page with the signature shall be considered sufficient to send the statement of costs. In that case, if there are grounds for suspecting a wrong number of words, the valuation firm may ask the Registry or the Secretariat to carry out the audit itself. You are right to note that the further digitisation of the e-Deposit management process will be able to solve such problems in the future, as sensitive documents can be deposited and stored on a secure server and only a secure link is sent to read the message. The FPS Justice is testing such a solution in several Registrys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u26	I can understand, Minister, that one wants to check that the performance was actually invoiced. However, the question arises as to how this is done. The signal of the terrain is that one asks for the full translation to be transmitted. You say in your reply that it is enough to deliver the first and the last page. If that is numbered and one knows about how many words are on a page, one can calculate that approximate. However, it seems that the full translation is expected in some cases. If we do not do so, then there is a threat and it is noted in the file. People then run the risk of losing their recognition or registration. It's all being recorded. In the case of translators and interpreters, this is as if they actually risk losing their recognition, and hence work, when they are bothering to do so. However, the GBA has made it very clear that these reports should not be transmitted. I think there is some confusion on the ground. It seems to me to be a good thing that very clear guidelines are given to the valuation agencies, what is not allowed and what cannot and can not be done, and that this is also communicated to the translators and interpreters, so that constructive work can be done. I assume everyone is in good faith. We know that it is already a sacrifice to work for the Justice Department, because sometimes it takes a long time to get paid. That is already a sacrifice, and then there is a danger that problems will arise when the secret of the investigation is invoked. It is therefore important that good communication and good agreements are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u27	Madam President, Minister, last week, Wednesday, June 24, we learned from the press that following several reports, the Centre for Information and Advice on Sectarian Organizations alerted the Crisis Centre about "spiritual" organizations whose speeches and practices, in times of pandemic, pose a major threat. Thus, not only contradicting safety instructions, some of these organizations would offer preventive treatment to buy or prepare themselves, but also curative treatment that could endanger people and their environment. Unfortunately, due to the lack of personnel and resources dedicated to combating sects within the State Security since 2015, it seems that these various reports would not have led to any follow-up. The information provided is of particular concern. In a March 2019 debate on sexual abuse among Jehovah's witnesses, you said that there is indeed a need to reconsider the strategy of fighting sects. In view of the current situation, we can legitimately question the follow-up. Minister, in relation to direct news, can you inform me of the number of reports and the number of sectarian groups involved? Have some of these groups already been reported as endangering public health? Are accidents known in recent weeks as a result of the practices suggested by these organizations and reported by the Information Centre? What initiatives did you take as a result of your March 2019 statements? How many people do they work to combat sects within the State Security? What is the annual budget dedicated to this theme? Is there an up-to-date listing of sectarian organizations? How is the monitoring and updating of information organised? Since 2015, how many meetings have been organized by the Administrative Coordination Unit of harmful sectarian organizations whose secretariat is located at the State Security? Finally, Mr Minister, does Belgium have an action plan to combat the sectarian phenomenon? Thank you for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u28	Mr Minister, at the end of last month the Information and Advisory Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organisations (IACSSO) announced that it had informed the Crisis Centre of irregularities related to the coronavirus. The IACSSO found that certain spiritual or religious organisations, through their interpretation of the epidemic, are spreading messages that can lead their followers to disregard the health guidelines and potentially harm public health. In doing so, the IACSO identified three categories, namely those who propose preventive treatment which is to be bought or made themselves, those who propose treatment which could endanger the persons concerned and their environment and thus society and, finally, those who question the current measures against the pandemic. However, nothing was done with the IACSSO reports because the State's Security, which is responsible for the succession of sects, would still not have received a legal mandate from the State's Security because of a shortage of personnel. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Can you tell us about which organisations the IACSSO has informed the Crisis Centre? How active are these organisations in Belgium and how large are they? With regard to these organisations, can you tell us what messages they were spreading? Can you divide them into one of the categories just mentioned? Are there any known cases of victims due to the proposed treatments or the proposed lack of treatment? What treatments were proposed? Although the security of the State is responsible for the succession of sects, the shortage of staff prevents him from carrying out that task. Will you make sure that the security of the State can take on this task again? If so, how will you do that? What measures do you intend to take to this end and against when? Have you taken steps to this end in recent years? If not, why not? How do you intend to guarantee the succession of sects in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u29	Madam President, Mrs Khattabi, Mr Van Hecke, the mission of the Centre for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations (CIAOSN /IACSSO) consists of three parts: the study of the phenomenon, the public documentation and the reception of the public and the formulation of opinions and recommendations. The difficulties encountered by the Centre in terms of staff since 2015 are gradually being overcome. We have, for example, grown from a staff of five to nine in four years. The means have not been reduced. In carrying out its tasks, the Centre gathers information through its own means and through requests for information to public services, foreign partner services or any other source. If, after the analysis of the data, there are indications of harmful illegal activities, harm to individuals or society or harming human dignity, a report shall be drawn up. The Centre transmitted 44 reports in 2018, 5 in 2019 and 29 since the beginning of the year. Reports are transmitted to different actors depending on the information concerned, such as the police, the public prosecutor's office or the State Security Service. On the type of organisations covered by the reports of recent months, these are mainly the sphere of alternative therapies, methods of personal development with a rather religious orientation and a distrust of official opinions and experts. This trend has been more active with the health crisis associated with VOCID-19. I have already indicated in the past, and this has also been communicated in the context of the work of the commission of inquiry into terrorist attacks, that priorities have to be set among the legal tasks of the State Security. They deal with terrorism, extremism and interference. The monitoring of sects is not included in these priorities. There is therefore no specific service that follows this phenomenon within the State Security. It's a matter of priorities. They can be adjusted if an evolution of the sectarian phenomenon so requires. The resources of State Security have been strengthened in recent years but the period of current affairs has reduced the scope for manoeuvre. All this does not mean that the intelligence service does nothing, it acts reactively on the basis of received descriptions, in particular by checking whether the persons concerned are known in the databases. Of course, criminal prosecution is always possible when there is evidence of criminal offences. In addition, the State Security attaches great importance to monitoring the phenomenon of disinformation on the Internet, with a strong emphasis on this during the COOVID-19 crisis when an increase in the phenomenon was seen. In this context, State Security is particularly alert to misinformation on health issues arising from certain extremist movements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer, which remains relatively short and generalist. I understand that priorities need to be set and that, in the context of day-to-day business, there were other priorities than that. You give us the figures: 29 reports in June, compared to 44 in 2018. It can be estimated that this remains in the same proportion. However, I am concerned about the fact that you are asking about priority setting and that sects are not part of it. In particular, I read in this document what the Deputy Deputy Head of State Security said and, at the very least, there is a need for priorities, but also for a minimum of vigilance, which we do not even have. I think we need to get something back on track. You did not mention anything about your statement following the record of Jehovah's witnesses and the follow-up to the sectarian phenomenon. From this point of view, I am particularly concerned about the monitoring of sexual abuse in sectarian movements. I am relatively dissatisfied and will not fail to come back with some specific elements that I may have had in the meantime. They will be the subject of a new question because the answer you give me does not enlighten me and, above all, does not reassure me as to the follow-up of these movements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u31	Minister, I think we should certainly take the phenomenon and the problem seriously. I understand from your reply that the IACSO was strengthened. It is true that there has been underbestaffining and that efforts have been made to withdraw it. It is important that we allow such institutions to work properly so that they can transfer the files they compile and that a follow-up is made. You say that there have been 29 files or reports since the beginning of this year, which is not a small number. Indeed, before a file or a description is drawn up, evidence and facts have already been collected that reward the efforts of further investigation. This brings us to the perpetual discussion of priorities. We fully understand that four to five years ago the highest priority was the fight against terrorism. It was all hands on deck and everyone had to help. However, we did warn at that time that the necessary concentration on the fight against terror could give other phenomena more room for manoeuvre. These include sects, proliferation, economic espionage and far right. In recent years, we have seen that these phenomena have gained strength. Legal assignments of the State Security have also suffered, because following sects is a legal assignment. Even if it is not the top priority, that work must be carried out, because that is what the law prescribes. I know that some people believe in the security of the State that it is not their job to follow sects, but as long as the law is not changed, it remains a statutory task. One possibility is that this task will be assigned to another body, such as the federal police. I would be happy to enter into this debate, but until the law is amended, it remains a legal mission of the State's Security. Minister, I expect you to point this out to the security of the State and to allocate sufficient resources. The succession of sects will not be the top priority and we do not ask for it, but sufficient resources and people need to be deployed to monitor this phenomenon closely and to take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u32	The press informs us that Hussein Ablu Habla, one of the leaders of the National Defence Forces, a Syrian paramilitary group organized by the Bashar al-Assad regime and Iran, involved in several crimes against humanity, is now residing in Belgium and is even about to receive Belgian nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u33	Since your question and the publication to which you seem to refer concerns a specific person with possible involvement in criminal offences and the question of follow-up by the intelligence services, you will understand that I cannot answer precisely. I can assure you that the various Belgian services and authorities concerned have been well aware of the information not verified at this stage and are processing it in accordance with their legal mandate. I stress that Belgium has supported the work of the impartial and independent international mechanism for Syria since its creation in 2016. Cooperation on specific facts between the Belgian authorities and this mechanism received a general legal framework a year ago. Since then, Belgium has responded to requests from the mechanisms and has made use of this structure in some cases. The services, structures and legal frameworks are therefore in place to deal with this type of case, if necessary, but I cannot give you more information on the specific case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am astonished at this very brief answer, since this is a war criminal, a paramilitary leader involved in the Syrian conflict. According to several media outlets, he is currently in Belgium. It clearly poses a risk not only to the National Security but also to potential groups of victims, including those from Syria. It is important to make this clear and to bring full transparency to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u35	Minister, on 25 June, the Supreme Court of Justice issued a new report on sexual violence. That was the second report on this. A report had already been prepared with many suggestions and recommendations for a better policy. I believe that this is a very thorough and important work for which we should be grateful. In the second report, the Supreme Court makes a number of recommendations, a large part of which is addressed to the federal government and mainly to you, the Minister of Justice. What is your response to the report of the Supreme Court of Justice? For each of the recommendations made by the Supreme Court to the federal government, can you tell us what the government's position is on this matter? What steps have you taken to implement those recommendations? What steps do you intend to take to achieve this? By when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u36	Minister, the Supreme Council of Justice (CSJ) released a report on June 26, which included 28 recommendations to the judiciary, in order to better take into account crimes and crimes of morality. According to figures from the College of Public Prosecutions, the number of rape and indecent assault cases increased by almost 10% between 2018 and 2019. On the other hand, it appears that almost 32% of morals cases were closed in 2019, compared to 49.6% in 2018. Of these files closed in 2019, 43.7% were for insufficient evidence, and 31.3% were for unknown author. The purpose of the CSJ is to provide an impetus for greater awareness, a reduction in the brakes that prevent victims from giving testimony, a reduction in the number of rankings without follow-up, an optimization of means and a better treatment of morals, for both victims and sex offenders. In particular, the CSJ calls for the retraining of judicial experts such as psychiatrists, psychologists and behaviouralists. With regard to victims, the CSJ called on the courts to better supervise victims during trials and regretted that the information was provided in writing in a language that was not understandable. The CSJ also recommends the systematic designation of an ad hoc guardian for minor victims, as well as a generalization of the use of the victim reception service, which is currently only mobilised when a Sexual Assault Set (SAS) is proposed. Finally, as far as sex offenders are concerned, the CSJ hopes that massive investment will be made in the ongoing support of the authors in order to tackle all the criminogenic factors of their harm. Minister, what follow-up do you give to these many recommendations? Is there any consultation with federated entities and judicial actors on the implementation of measures to implement these recommendations? What measures do you propose to facilitate the collection of evidence for the benefit of the victim, be it DNA tests or psychological evidence that remains important for these facts? Will the budget of the support centres responsible for the therapeutic follow-up of perpetrators of sexual violence be increased, given the increase in their workload, which has been demonstrated by the CSJ report, and their need to combat recidivism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u37	For some time now, the High Council has been considering tackling sexual violence. There was the report after the round table meeting in 2019 and last week he presented a follow-up and deepening report on the subject after a new round table meeting based on new statistics and other relevant information. To sum up, the report focuses on the fact that, firstly, the approach to sexual violence should be seen as a priority, that more attention should be paid to the victims and that the follow-up of perpetrators should be strengthened. On these issues, the High Council again makes some 28 recommendations. It is striking that there is still a need for a more uniform approach and a proper risk assessment and that, in addition to more proactive communication to the victim, he also advocates more victim-oriented criminal proceedings. The victim may, for example, be involved in the debate on the possible probative measures for the offender. As far as the perpetrators are concerned, the High Council is again suggesting to introduce the degree of accountability, as well as the possibility of imposing treatment as punishment. This has already happened in Parliament over the past year. We have taken several legislative initiatives in the fight against sexual violence. Of course, that work is not finished. Moreover, it is not possible to solve everything with pure legislative changes. What follow-up will or can you give to the recommendations and what timing do you put first? Will you enter into consultation or start further cooperation with the Länder and all other competent actors or judicial bodies in order to implement the recommendations together in practice? Are there any recommendations you disagree with? What are your views on more victim-oriented criminal proceedings and the introduction of a gradual accountability of the offender?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u38	Mrs De Wit, your question came in late and I do not know if I have an answer to all your questions. I, too, received the report from the High Council last Friday. I note that he did not receive a written reply from all the respondents, which partly hypothesized the conclusions and perhaps slightly distorted them. I deeply regret that. My own policy cell took part in the round table as a privileged observer and I cannot go into every recommendation within the scope of an oral question. Some recommendations have already been implemented to some extent, for example on the training and specialization of police and magistrates. I also refer to my action plan against sexual violence, which I drew up after the murder of Julie Van Espen in consultation with the associations of interests and experience experts, and which I communicated to the IMC Women's Rights. Other recommendations require further investigation and consultation with the Communities. I also refer to the hearing of the President of the College of Attorneys General following the first report of the Supreme Council of Justice. Mr. Dernicourt confirmed the priorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the efforts made. Reference should also be made to care centres after sexual assault. Minister Muylle deploys them throughout the country, up to ten centres. Cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office should result in new guidelines on the reduction of SAS and criminal prosecution of sexual violence. In the meantime, we are setting up an administrative working group to examine a number of existing stumbling blocks. On the question of the financing of support centres for the care and treatment of perpetrators of sexual abuse, consultations are held with the Communities to review the cooperation agreements in question, taking into account their personal competence and the tasks of these support centres. However, a Government with full powers is needed to conclude new cooperation agreements. In the meantime, their grants have been consistently maintained by the Justice FPS in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u39	Minister, I believe that the High Council has done important work. I understand that, in the context of an oral question, you cannot go into any of the suggestions in more detail. Madam President, perhaps after the summer recess we can invite representatives of the High Council when we have some time to do so, or, for example, in the run-up to discussing the proposals for reform of the section of the Criminal Code on sexual violence. In this way we can focus a little more on the recommendations of the High Council with the authors themselves of the report and with the Minister, who will have had the time to look at it thoroughly by then. I think it might be useful to organise such a meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u40	Mr Van Hecke, we will certainly do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. You have answered some of my questions, albeit not all of them, for which I understand. Like Mr Van Hecke, I am interested in the fact that we can get to work on this. It's not a bad idea to hear the Supreme Court on that. Some recommendations are not new. For example, we have been talking for a long time about risk assessment, graded accountability and victim-oriented criminal proceedings, in which the victim can also decide whether or not to impose probation. That is a very different approach to today's criminal proceedings. Important work has already been done, but we still have a very large task ahead of us to refine and follow up on the recommendations. I hope that the Chamber will be able to work on this, but I do realize that legislation will not solve everything and that much more will eventually be needed. To be continued, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u42	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers, even though I regret that I have not been able to hear them entirely since I have to share in a thousand today! With respect to what I have heard, I believe that the admissibility of evidence is a major issue in encouraging victims to file complaints. It is very specific to sexual offences because this problem is even more acute in these cases. Indeed, the nature of sexual violence means that the traces usually remain only between 24 and 48 hours and that it is therefore necessary to go very quickly or, failing that, to accept some flexibility in the evidence to be given, in particular with regard to post-traumatic memory. I hope that our legal procedures will allow for greater flexibility in relation to this evidence, given the special nature of these sexual offences. As far as the training of magistrates is concerned, I did not hear your answer, but I wanted to take advantage of my reply to commend your latest law on the subject of domestic violence to generalize the training of magistrates, and therefore not only sexual, to all judges. This is, I think, a very positive signal that you have launched through this bill brought by two members of your party. So I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u43	Minister, on 26 June, the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights decided to set up four working groups with a view to fully implementing the Istanbul Convention. One of these groups relates to the prosecution component and will therefore logically be led by your firm. Its main objectives are to ensure the full and general application of COL No. 4/2006, in particular with regard to the reception of victims of violence, to continue and strengthen the basic training of judges and police services on gender violence – which has just been mentioned in another issue – but also to ensure that criminal policy instruments, such as the risk assessment tool, are implemented by all partners and actors in the prevention and prosecution chain. I can only welcome this initiative as it aims to implement several measures that have long been called for by associations and contained in my motion for a resolution to put in place an emergency plan to facilitate the complaint and protection of victims of domestic or domestic violence, a proposal which was adopted by Parliament on 11 June. The Interdepartmental Conference will reconvene in the autumn to take note of the conclusions of the working groups and agree on concrete measures. Until then, what is the planned schedule of work? Which field actors will you meet? Can any action be taken before the fall, given the seriousness and urgency of the situation? When and how will the requests contained in the resolution adopted on 11 June last concerning the judiciary be implemented? I am thinking in particular of considering the removal of the perpetrator of violence from the victim's home as a priority and therefore of strengthening the measure of temporary prohibition of residence, but also of raising awareness among prosecutors of the accommodation solutions put in place by the different levels of authority for the victims as well as for the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u44	Mrs Rohonyi, I can only repeat that I have made the fight against partner violence and domestic violence a priority since I took office as Minister of Justice. Various proposals and action points have already been drawn up in recent years. Some of them are in full execution. Others require additional action or greater cooperation. However, it must be realized that the implementation of a policy is not a matter of a few weeks, but requires preparation and awareness-raising on the ground. It can take a long time before the effects can be seen. You are referring to your resolution adopted by Parliament on 11 June, but we have not waited for it. Many measures have already been implemented or are in preparation. I refer you to the update of COL No. 4/2006 on violence between partners and the evaluation report of the College of Attorneys General which I had requested on the application of the temporary ban on residence, which was too limited at the time. In the meantime, the number of residence bans has already increased sharply. The stumbling blocks, in particular the lack of supervision of the perpetrators and an overly complex procedure, were corrected by the Act of 5 May 2019 which entered fully into force on 1 January 2020, and by Circular COL No. 18/2012 on the temporary prohibition of residence, revised in March 2020. It also includes the new mandate of the Justice Assistant. As part of the ICD on Houses of Justice, a working group is further examining the issue of the inclusion of temporary residence bans in the register of I+ Belgium conditions. I can also inform you that the College of Attorneys General has drawn up a new directive on the widespread use by police and prosecutors of a front-line risk assessment tool on violence between partners. It will officially enter into force on 1 January 2021. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the proposed law on various provisions, which is currently under consideration, which provides for the obligation to include in the basic training of magistrates training on sexual violence and violence between partners. However, the prosecution offices do not report a worrying influx of cases, despite the increased political attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u45	Minister, I have never said that you do not consider this crucial issue a priority. This is evidenced by the measures taken by your cabinet even before the adoption of our resolution. My question was actually a call not to wait until the fall for action. Indeed, when I learned that the working group had to deliver its conclusions for the fall, and then we had to adopt concrete measures, I was concerned about that. Today, I am therefore reassured to hear that you have this will to adopt these measures before the conclusions are reached in the working group. As far as the training of magistrates is concerned, this is an important initiative. I am surprised, for the rest, to hear you say that the prosecutors did not report an influx of cases of domestic violence. Indeed, as part of your response to another of my containment questions, you mentioned an increase in the number of these files. At the same time, you are well aware that the approach taken by victims who wish to file complaints, which results in these cases being brought before the prosecutor's office, is extremely complex and that it is not necessary to limit itself to statistics from the public prosecutor's offices in order to determine whether to give more or less serious follow-up to the problem. I understand, however, that you see this as a priority, and we will ensure that we support you in your actions, whether in this government or in a future full-fledged government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u46	Mr Boukili is not present for his question No. 55007526C. His question expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u47	On October 23, 39 Vietnamese were found dead in a refrigerator truck in Essex, England. They died in a closed trailer on a ferry to England, by suffocation and overheating. It now appears that there were two teenagers among them who disappeared from the Dutch shelter for minors on 11 October. At the time of the disappearance, mentors and Dutch police were well prepared. When the young people were picked up by a Brussels taxi, could. The Dutch police follow the taxi to a driving house in Anderlecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u48	Mr Segers, I have passed on your questions to the federal attorney, who reports to me the following. I quote: "The federal parquet was captured for the facts of 39 deaths in the refrigerator truck in Essex on October 23, 2019, the day of the sighting of the victims. An investigation was initiated. On the initiative of Belgium, a dossier was opened at Eurojust, as the refrigerator was brought to the United Kingdom via Zeebrugge. On 4 November 2019, a JIT or Joint Investigation Team agreement was signed between Belgium and the United Kingdom, later supplemented by Ireland and France. In the month following the opening of the investigation, the federal prosecutor was informed at a meeting at Eurojust that there were likely minors among the victims who had fled a protective shelter in the Netherlands. After we were informed of the information, we contacted the national parquet of the Netherlands. That court has spontaneously passed on to us its investigation into the escape of minors from a protected shelter. This showed that the two minors were picked up by a Brussels taxi on 11 October 2019 and dropped off at an address in Brussels. That address has now come to mind in the federal prosecutor's investigation. The names of the minors in the Dutch file did not correspond to the identified victims. It is only in February 2020 that the two minors concerned were correctly identified by fingerprints. This shows that one of them was of age and the other minor at the time of the facts and both were known in the Netherlands as minors. The federal prosecutor works together with the various organisations that have built up the necessary expertise in human trafficking."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u49	Mr Minister, you have now said a lot from the perspective of the federal court, but if I understood correctly and followed the reports correctly, then there has been a pursuit by the Dutch police and the case was handed over to the Brussels parquet. I wonder what the Brussels parquet has done in the time to Essex. I hope a lot, but I'm afraid of that. This may have to do with the underfinancing. There have also been alarming reports that trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings are no longer priorities and that police capacity has shifted in its fight against terrorism and has never been replaced, especially with the federal judicial police in Brussels. This was also evident from Myria's press conference in November at the presentation of the Human Trafficking Annual Report, where Myria and all the external speakers present, such as Ann Lukowiak of the federal prosecutor, Sarah De Hovre of PAG-ASA and Peter Van Hauwermeiren of the social inspection were explicitly charged. In addition, I wonder to what extent there was at that time communication between the Brussels federal police. They could have expected that. The Brussels parquet is competent from the moment there are cross-border aspects involved. This is about human trafficking, so d'office is about that. So I wonder how it is possible that the federal court will fall out of the sky and not have anything to say about it until after Essex. Either those directives are not good, or something went wrong there. I hope you can tell us a little more from the point of view of the Brussels parquet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u50	Minister, today three IS women and their children arrived in our country. I have a number of questions for you, because two of these ladies have been flown from Syria before, in particular in 2014, to give birth here. Although they were given all the care and even an OCMW benefit at the time and promised to break all ties with Islamist groups on their souls, they returned to Syria with their children a year later and repeatedly expressed hatred of our society. How can you explain to the people that gangsters who literally and figuratively stand our society to life can today impertinently appeal to that society to come here? Opposite the press, the lawyer of the duo publicly stated that he was grateful to the Belgian government that she had not tried to stick sticks in the wheels. Do I interpret it correctly that the Belgian State has failed to use and use all political, diplomatic and legal means to prevent their arrival? Is that correct and, if so, can you tell me why? Next to the infamous duo a certain Nadia Baghouri was flown over today. She belongs to one of the four women who previously filed a lawsuit against the Belgian State and demanded a penalty payment of 5,000 euros a day that their children were not brought back. It was not until October that the Brussels appeal court decided on this matter. Is the news in the media that her return and that of her children would have been facilitated by the travel documents that Minister Goffin delivered to her lawyers at the beginning of this year in the hope of avoiding periodic penalty payments? If that is true, how do you reconcile the outcome of Nadia Baghouri with the official position of the Belgian Government that Belgium wants to pass on children up to ten years of age, but not the parents, the position that you expressed several times in the hemisphere? If I have understood the lawyers of Baghouri correctly, it is possible that she will continue to claim the periodic penalty payments. The lawyers are literally saying that they still have to look at it, so my logical question is whether you can give guarantees that the person concerned will not make it home twice in a row and not force our country, in addition to a free ticket for her and her offspring, to pay periodic penalty payments. Finally, how many IS gangsters will follow the example of that trio? The trio was brought here by the government. What guarantees can you give and what measures will you take to prevent follow-up behaviour? If you do not do so, you are actually saying that anyone who reaches Turkey will receive a free ticket to this country. Are any possible future repatriations known to you? If so, how many people are involved and when can we expect them? If you do not know, you may know how many creatures are still there and who might follow the example of the trio.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u51	Mr Metsu, I apologise, because since your question was first on the agenda, I should have given you the floor first. At the reply, I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u52	Madam President, ladies first, so I have no problem. Minister, three terrorists of Islamic State and their six children were brought back from Turkey to Belgium this afternoon by the Belgian authorities. The three women are known as the Antwerp Syrian terrorists. Earlier this year, one of them tried to force the Belgian authorities to return by means of periodic penalty payments. Minister Goffin, responsible for Foreign Affairs and Defence, delivered the travel documents for the children at the beginning of this year. Two of the terrorists were sentenced to prison, a sentence of five years and a sentence of forty months. The third person may appeal if necessary. Minister, what prisons will they be in, whether or not they are in the Deradex wings? Will these women be subjected to specific successions in prison? If so, what does it mean? What will happen to the children after they were examined in the hospital? Who will catch them, hopefully not the grandparents? Are these children being followed further and if so, in what way? How far is the lawsuit against the Belgian government? Can you give us more information on this as far as possible? How do you feel about the fact that two of the three women, especially Mrs Wielandt and Mrs Aboullal, have already been repatriated in the past, and then returned to the area of terror in 2015 and now repatriated again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u53	First of all, I would like to point out that the return of the three women is not a repatriation. This is an expulsion, which was decided unilaterally by Turkey. Experience has shown us that these expulsions must not lead to an uncontrolled return to Belgian territory. In 2017, therefore, a procedure was introduced, which has already been followed several times, so that all actors are informed and measures can be taken from the date of arrival on the Belgian territory. The return of women does not therefore imply any evolution in the government's position on the repatriation of adults who have left for Syria. Other foreign fighters are currently locked up in Turkey. In most cases, these are persons subject to criminal proceedings in Turkey. I am aware that no other expulsion from Turkey is planned at present. I do not, of course, have any sympathy for women travelling to Syria, and then returning to Belgium to give birth and to return to Syria with knowledge. Their first return to Belgium was, of course, not repatriation. I suspect that, despite the wording of your questions, you know that very well. Moreover, at the beginning of this year, unlike what you indicate, no travel document was issued to women's lawyers. Recently, documents have been issued for the return that has just taken place still with the aim of maintaining control over the persons deployed. Two out of three women were sentenced to five years' imprisonment and the third to four years' imprisonment. They were transferred directly to three different prisons. Women are considered foreign terrorist fighters and will therefore be subject to follow-up and information exchange between partner services. Guidance and disengagement belong to the competence of the federated entities. The childcare and follow-up of the children were prepared in advance and organised by the various actors in accordance with the procedure which has been followed several times. Where necessary, the court and the juvenile judge will act, as will the competent Flemish services. As far as the interim proceedings are concerned, in order to oblige the Belgian State to repatriate women and children, I can tell you that there is still a procedure under way which has been initiated by one of the women who has returned today. However, it is only one of the applicants, most of the applicants still reside in the camps in Syria. In that case, the judge imposed periodic penalty payments on the Belgian State for certain measures to be taken in respect of children. On the basis of the measures taken by the Belgian authorities and the evolution of the situation, the court decided that those periodic penalty payments are not currently due. The appeal procedure against the original decision of the interim court is still pending. In a similar French-speaking procedure, the Court of Appeal dismissed any action by the applicants to impose a periodic penalty payment and severely restricted the measures to be taken by the Belgian State, which was broadly equivalent to the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u54	Mr. Secretary, how we name it, I'll leave it in the middle. You say it's not repatriation, but they did land back here this afternoon and we didn't make a fist. In fact, at the beginning of this year, women refused to return their children, since they had their fates inextricably attached to them, and they have now succeeded. I still hear politicians here and there from the other side of the spectrum saying that they deserve a second chance, but I think they are going astray, because they have already had a second chance. In 2014 they came back, they could give birth here and enjoyed our system, after which they laughed at us and left for the terror region. I think we are all dealing with this very lightly now. I did not hear you answer my question about the children's care. I fear effectively that the children will be accommodated with the grandparents. Those grandparents are just the people who did not see their own children radicalising under their eyes and were able to commit or at least witness acts of terror. I am therefore extremely concerned about the future of these children or, from the point of view of the grandparents, those grandchildren. With regard to the effective five-year prison sentence, we all know that the people concerned are biting their teeth for two years and sitting their time, waiting a little bit. Afterwards, they may or may not return to freedom. I would very much like to hear the OCAD and other experts explain that we are bringing them back so that we can control them here. Last week, however, I learned that 399 radicalised detainees were released again. No one can tell me that all 399 are actively followed, because that is simply impossible. In the past, the women concerned have repeatedly demonstrated what they are capable of, including laughing with our system and abusing our system. Now we will help them a little here too. That worries me. That concludes my reply, although I do not think that this chapter has been completed. Together with certain colleagues, I will have to keep knocking on that nail. At least I am committed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u55	Madam President, Minister, Mr Metsu, I find it disturbing to say the least. These are ISIS gangsters who deliberately chose to go back to Syria on two occasions, against all the advice, and who are now coming back here at the taxpayers' expense, in order to be punished far too lightly. Instead of bringing these ticking time bombs here, it seems to me logical that they should be held on the ground and tried in the region where they committed their crimes. I am convinced that they have not exhausted all the means to stop them. A recent verdict from our northern neighbours shows that it pays to use all the resources. There they had a similar story. It was forced before the court that women with children should be brought back. On appeal, the judge stated that this was part of the freedom of government policy. After the IS-gangsters appealed, cassation at the Hoge Raad in the Netherlands a few days ago ruled that the Dutch State, despite the serious interests of those women and their children, does not have to bring them to the Netherlands and does not have to make any effort to do so. There is no particular circumstance that states that these human rights treaties impose responsibility on the Netherlands for those women and children. So we have not exhausted all the resources. They should have made every effort to keep them away from Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u56	Minister, the Act of 6 July 2017 repealed section 11 of the Extradition Act of 15 March 1874. It follows that, in the present state of Belgian law, there is no judicial remedy allowing a person whose property has been seized at his domicile, following a request for mutual legal assistance from a third State to the European Union, to object to the transmission of all such property, whereas such an appeal was previously proposed by Article 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u57	Mr Cogolati, article 11 of the 1974 Act was deleted because it did not concern extradition, which is the subject of this Act. It was a residual of the beginnings of judicial cooperation where obtaining evidence was treated as an annex to extradition. The abolition was accompanied by the addition of an article 6 in the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act providing for a similar procedure. Any discrimination between legal frameworks applicable to remedies depending on whether or not the requesting State is a State of the European Union is currently the subject of questions referred to the Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling. It is therefore necessary to await the decision of the Court. The embassies of the requesting countries regularly contact each other to ascertain the progress of judicial cooperation cases initiated by their national authorities. The Kazakh embassy, for example, requested a meeting in February 2019 in which it was only a matter of informing about the status of the procedure. I recall that I have already indicated that there will be no transmission of evidence to the Kazakh authorities until the various procedures under way to challenge the measure have given rise to a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. The absence of a remedy is extremely challenging. When a seizure is ordered by a third State, such as Kazakhstan or another country where fundamental rights guarantees are not recognized, it is a matter of concern since this means that the person who is the victim of the seizure cannot bring an action in the Belgian judicial system. The law must be urgently reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u59	Minister, we are on 1 July, a symbolic date since it is today that the internal discussions with the State of Israel begin on whether or not to annex certain Palestinian territories and the West Bank. Regardless of this, this weekend, we saw a demonstration where the legitimate demands of the Palestinian people to have an independent and free State could neither silence nor tolerate hate speech, racist insults, a call for death or anti-Semitic discourse against persons of Jewish faith or Israeli nationality present on Belgian territory. I would like to say this firmly: despite his fight, particularly through my colleague Mr. Ben Achour and other colleagues in this Parliament to recognise a Palestinian state, my group has always opposed hate speech, anti-Semitic speech and any discourse discriminating against any criterion of discrimination. The Coordinating Committee of the Jewish Organizations of Belgium (CCOJB) legitimately expressed its concern at this ignoble speech last weekend. It was reported that a complaint against X had been filed. Similarly, the mayor of the city of Brussels, Mr Philippe Close, requested that a survey be carried out of the police services. In particular, the CCOJB recalled that the scanned sentence had given rise to a criminal conviction, confirmed on appeal, for similar facts that had taken place in Antwerp in 2014. Minister, has this complaint against X been referred to the federal prosecutor's office to date? Have any instructions been given by you to fight again against these calls for hatred, wherever they come from and against anyone, and who have no place in our Belgian society?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u60	Mr Aouasti, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office allows me to inform you that a judicial investigation has been opened following these anti-Semitic statements, with a view to identifying an Islamist group that has infiltrated this demonstration. It should be noted that the participants were masked and that, on the basis of an initial analysis of the images published on the Internet, the demonstrators showed their disapproval of the statements made by this group. In such a situation, the Public Prosecutor's Office may face several obstacles related, on the one hand, to the over-reporting of discrimination and hate crimes and, on the other hand, to the identification of the perpetrators in this particular context. In all cases, substantive criminal law seems sufficiently developed to ensure prosecution, since incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence on an anti-Semitic basis is punishable under anti-racism law. Joint Circular COL 13/2013, which sets out specific criminal policy directives to combat discrimination, including racist offences, is currently being evaluated. In all cases, the various actors are obviously aware and mobilized to face the major challenges of spreading this type of hate messages via social networks. This is a challenge for the repressive authorities. In particular, the Federal Police has developed a specific expertise and approach through the existence of a specialized unit. However, the responsibility of the relevant platforms is also engaged. These are crucial discussions that we are having at European level. The criminal response is essential, but cannot be sufficient for itself to stem this phenomenon. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Aouasti.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u61	Minister, thank you for saying, through your response, that there is increased vigilance. I am thinking in particular of social networks, which I would call anti-social and hate-propagators, rather than creators of social ties, because of the fake news they spread. I would also like to thank you for telling me that the COL - namely, the circular of the Attorney-General's Office - is subject to constant evaluation. My group will remain vigilant with regard to all such matters. We express our support for all members of the Jewish community who have legitimately felt struck by this call to murder and hatred that was addressed to them this Sunday. That is why we show them our deepest sympathy and solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u62	Madam President, Minister, it has been fifteen years since Belgium signed the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture (OPCAT). Of the 27 EU Member States, 23 have ratified, including federal states. Therefore, how can we explain that today, after the adoption of the bill assented to by OPCAT in 2018, Belgium has still not established an independent mechanism to ensure control over all places of deprivation of liberty? Although I acknowledge the efforts made by the previous government, notably by linking the Central Supervisory Board to Parliament, it remains that this body cannot control all places of deprivation of liberty, as provided for by OPCAT. Thus, Belgium has no independent body legally mandated to monitor closed centres, psychiatric annexes, police stations or airport transit areas. In these circumstances, Mr Minister, I see two paths that can be taken: either we are urgently extending the mandate of the Central Prison Supervisory Board or the Federal Ombudsman to all places of deprivation of liberty, or – as some associations have advocated – we are creating a new independent body specifically dedicated to the prevention of torture – with, therefore, a separate budget. Minister, how is the delay in the publication in the Belgian Monitor of the bill assented to by OPCAT dated 19 July 2018 justified? Can we expect a forthcoming publication? If so, within what time frame? Will Belgium comply with its international commitments by providing for monitoring of all places of deprivation of liberty? If so, what initiatives are planned or already taken to this end? Finally, under the previous legislature, you explained that, since the mechanism covered institutions under both federal and federal jurisdiction, it would require the adoption of a cooperation agreement or other legal norm. So, what option will you finally choose? Where are we today in the development of this standard or cooperation agreement, depending on the option you have chosen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u63	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the law of assent adopted in 2018 will be published in the Belgian Monitor after the deposit of the instrument of ratification of the OPCAT. As provided for in the explanatory memorandum, this deposit will take place once the national mechanism for the prevention of torture has been determined. Several assumptions were examined. At this stage, in view of the number of independent bodies that exist, I do not advocate the creation of an additional body, but rather the extension of either the mandate of the Central Prison Supervisory Board or the mandate of the various ombudsmen. In all cases, a cooperation agreement will be necessary. I also refer you to the answer to a previous question by Mrs Matz. A day of consultation with all stakeholders was scheduled for 2 April. Unfortunately, it had to be postponed because of the health crisis. The format did not allow for the use of videoconferencing and the number of participants remained too high on the basis of the current VOCID-19 rules. My administration is developing an alternative method to consult, to have this dialogue with all parties. The final decision will be for the next government, but my goal is that there will be at least clear recommendations by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u64	Minister, thank you. I hear you are therefore not retaining the option of creating a new body. I can understand that, particularly with regard to the budgetary investment that it would involve. Still, there is still a need to decide whether you are retaining the option of expanding the mandate of the Central Penitentiary Supervisory Board or of the federal ombudsmen. The advantage of federal mediators is that they have already reported on the situation, whether in closed centres or in other places of deprivation of liberty, other than prisons. On the other hand, I have not heard you comment on the institutional complexity that you often put forward in order to be able to conclude this cooperation agreement. But this cooperation agreement is still not there. It is probably because it is indeed difficult to bring all the actors together around the table. I regret that because our country, despite its institutional difficulties, has already been creative in setting up other types of bodies. I am thinking in particular of the National Human Rights Institute. In addition, Article 17 of the OPCAT Protocol states that "the mechanisms established by decentralised entities may be designated as national preventive mechanisms for the purposes of this Protocol, if they comply with its provisions". This is why Switzerland and Germany, which are also federal states such as Belgium, have been able to ratify the Convention and apply it today. We have an interesting source of inspiration here. Anyway, there's an emergency. We have been working on these issues for too long, and we cannot accept that in Belgium, anyone who would be deprived of his or her liberty would not be adequately protected from the risk of torture or degrading human treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u65	Question No 55007596C by Mrs Laurence Zanchetta is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u66	Minister, the May 20, 2020 Act, which included the suspension of individual salary seizures for a limited period of time, expired on June 17, 2020. The Act was not renewed and article 9 of the Act provided that not all natural persons may be the subject of any seizure or seizure or arrest or execution for the purpose of payment of a sum of money. It would appear that this law has posed difficulties since some bailiffs have stated to seized persons that the text of the law was intended to suspend only the new seizures, namely those that occurred between 20 May 2020 and 17 June 2020. This interpretation of the law would not be a matter of parliamentary work or of the law itself, but of an internal circular to the judicial officers and which seems to me to be contrary to the spirit and text of the law that we have voted here. Minister, have you heard that interpretation? Do you confirm that such a circular emanates from the judicial officers themselves? What remedies are available to those who have not finally been helped by the law but who have been left in a more complicated situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u67	Madam President, the interpretation of legislation is a prerogative of the judiciary. In this case, the seizing judge will have to decide, in the event of a dispute, on the implementation of this temporary measure. In the preparatory work for this legislation, however, we can see that a proposal for an amendment explicitly introducing the temporary suspension of provisional seizures already under way has not been accepted. In accordance with this, the National Chamber has made a strict interpretation of these legal provisions. Any garnishment that had been served prior to the coming into force of the law and could only concern debts of origin outside the pandemic therefore remained fully valid and retained its effects as a safeguard. The validity of the seizures already under way could not be called into question. With regard to your last question, shortly after the expiry of this measure, the legislator passed the law of 19 June 2020, which increased by 20% the minimum elusive share of the revenues referred to in article 1409 of the Judicial Code until 31 August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u68	Minister, thank you. My question, however, was not about the validity of the seizures that had been carried out before 20 May, but about the execution and continued execution of those seizures. I have a problem with the answer. I understand that the interpretation of the law will be the responsibility of the judiciary and the seizing judge. I can only welcome the fact that we are soon voting in the Justice Committee and, I hope, in the plenary session on raising the thresholds for legal aid. This will allow all those who are the subject of much lower incomes to have a lawyer and to be able to defend themselves effectively before the seizing judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic226x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 55007599C lapses, as the author is not present.
