ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u1	Colleagues, we begin this oral question-and-answer session with Minister Ducrame. I thank him for his presence. Our morning will be organised in three parts: - a topical debate which will deal mainly with funding and support for CPAS. - a topical debate on bridge law. - a series of oral questions. I would remind you that, for the topical debates, we have put in place a protocol that works relatively well. If you ask a single question, you have two minutes of speaking time. If you ask more than one question, you have three minutes of speaking time for the whole. But you can save speaking time by referring to the written version of your questions. In this way, speaking time is reduced to the reply. If you do not want to ask your questions, but refer to the written medium, it is possible. If you decide to ask your questions, that is what you will say orally in the report. Mrs Depraetere had to start but she is on another committee and will join us as soon as possible. I'm going on with Mrs. Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u2	I shall put my question, Madam President, because some things have happened in the meantime. Mr Minister, my question concerns the extra EUR 15 million received by the OMCWs, in addition to the EUR 3 million released in the context of food aid. Meanwhile, the core has decided to release an additional EUR 100 million for the OMCWs. It is absolutely a fact that there is a problem of an increasing number of commuters, so I think it is a good thing that this is being done, but I do have some questions about the amounts. After all, the amount of EUR 15 million was validated by the Social Integration PPS, so there was still a certain logic behind that, although it is not clear to me how that money is allocated to the OMCWs. Will it be about their activation measures? How is that money supposed to be spent? However, with the amount of EUR 100 million, this is no longer clear at all. I don't know where that number came from. I think it could have been EUR 110, 80 or 90 million. I have no idea, so I would like to hear how that figure has emerged, how that money will be distributed and what it needs to be spent. If it is simply distributed freely among the OCMW's, there will be a big difference there. The money will also serve to fill other wells and I do not know if that is the intention. After all, more than ever, we need to be very active on good routes for people who have fallen into OCMW because of the corona crisis, and they are often people who have not been seen there before. So that also requires a different approach and I hope that more thought has been given to that than simply wanting to put forward a nice, round amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u3	Mr. Steven De Vuyst was not present and his questions Nos. 55006201C, 55007105C, 55007124C and 55007133C were not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u4	Mr Minister, I refer to the written reflection of my two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u5	Since Mr. Mathieu Bihet was absent, his question No. 55007029C became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u6	In order to take into account the current context, are you planning a more flexible application of this condition of success?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u7	Minister, my question no. 55004632C of April 7 has become relatively irrelevant, since it was about food aid and meal vouchers and since then we have been able to work on these issues. So I'll stick to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u8	In the absence of Ms. Depraetere, her questions became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u9	Madam President, first of all, let me make a preliminary remark. In fact, 18 questions relating to social aspects (CPAS, VOCID measures) were tabled. To prepare the answers to these questions, my administration and my firm had to work for many hours. I would therefore like to know how many of them are actually placed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u10	I understand you, Minister. Finally, 10 of the 18 questions are asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u11	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Van Peel and Mrs Lanjri because this is an important subject. Having said that, we had prepared, on the basis of all the questions that have been tabled, an answer which I will allow myself to give you in its entirety. Indeed, while a number of parliamentarians are not present to ask their questions, others are, and I would like to speak on the whole issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u12	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis we are experiencing is exceptional. It has a significant impact on very vulnerable audiences. It is important that, in parallel with the Government's response to health and socio-economic issues, a social response be provided. To answer this question, I would like to provide you with figures. For example, at last Friday's super kern, we released an additional 100 million for supplementary social assistance and 10 million for the operating costs of CPAS. Previously, 86 million have already been committed at the social level: - EUR 286,000 for food banks initially, followed by EUR 759,000; - EUR 3 million for food aid at CPAS level. - an additional €3 million under a second part of food aid to CPAS. - EUR 15 million in supplementary social assistance to CPAS. - EUR 420,000 for student fellows, - EUR 21 million for CPAS as part of the increase in the necessary mobilisation (15% additional support for new RIS); It also provides for the €300 premium for RIS beneficiaries. Added to this is the decision of the super kern for a budget of 100 million additional aid to the CPAS to support households weakened by this crisis. This decision dates from Friday. It is a political agreement to respond to social demand following this crisis. Technical measures are being developed with the CPAS federations in order to respond as closely as possible to their needs. Mrs Lanjri, you initially asked me about the measures taken to support our OMCWs by enabling them to provide social assistance to those who are facing a decline in their income due to the COVID-19 crisis. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to their exceptional work, like that of all the actors in the field, during this difficult period. Together with my fellow Minister Muylle, I have taken various measures to support families in difficulty. For example, the government provides for an exceptional allowance of EUR 6 times 50, to be granted to the beneficiaries of the living wage, to the allowance for persons with disabilities and to the income guarantee for the elderly. That measure will be validated by the Council of Ministers this week. The allowance will be granted from July to December 2020. A circular for the implementation of the measures will be drawn up in consultation with the federations of OCMWs. This additional financial support for vulnerable people is part of the concrete responses formulated by the organisations in the field and the GEES. In addition to the €3 million to increase aid to CPAS in the context of food aid, as I mentioned, there is a €759,000 subsidy to food banks to meet both food needs and the lack of hygiene products, and a €3,276 million budget allocated at the end of March to CPAS and food banks to meet basic needs. A measure has also been taken to neutralize income from seasonal work in the calculation of integration income. The ceiling for professional immunization of scholarship students has been raised. It's important. Many questions related to this subject. I'll come back. Finally, the government will contribute an additional 15% to the social integration income repayment rate for those who have arrived at the CPAS following the crisis. This measure is being validated by the Council of Ministers and the CPAS will be informed as soon as possible. The measure will cover the period from June to December 2020. This amount will be used for the staff costs of CPAS so that they have the necessary human resources. From the moment you are in such a situation, beyond the financial means that are to be allocated according to the actual needs, it is also a question of supporting the CPAS with regard to recruitment requirements, for example. We have therefore foreseen this aspect as well. In order to identify the social urgency and to respond to it, I have indeed set up the Vulnerable Groups Task Force, in cooperation with Ministers Muylle and De Block. This task force is fed by a consultation group consisting of organisations from the field, through coordination channels such as the anti-poverty service, the National High Council for Persons with a Disability and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, supported by the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network and the Association of OCMWs. These exchanges with the field have allowed the identification of the groups to be charged, for example, by the OCMWs, interim workers, people with a flexi job, students, people with disabilities, homeless people, people with precarious status or artists and some self-employed persons. All proposals made by the consultation group were submitted to the Task Force. Like the various relevant federal ministers, the ministers of the federated entities can assess the needs and prepare measures to address these specific issues. Indeed, the Regions have important levers in this area. I therefore have no doubt that, like the federal government, they will take a number of complementary social measures. Of course, the focus is on the federal government. However, it is not up to him to deal with the whole issue, even though he has raised EUR 200 million. You, who are specialists, who are parliamentarians, who are politicians, you know that the regional level has a lot of social levers. It will therefore also be a matter of seeing our regions engage with the same strength as the federal government on these issues. I imagine that they will provide a number of answers, which can accompany the action of the federal, the communes and the CPAS. It is really important that action and solidarity come together. The measures are adopted in order to respond as quickly as possible to the problems that arise. Therefore, the timetable for the implementation of the measures is gradual. We remain attentive to the development of the situation, which remains uncertain. We are, and I am personally also in very regular contact with Céline Nieuwenhuys, relay within the GEES. (...) Mrs Lanjri, I can confirm that the exit strategy was also discussed with the field organisation in the task force. The PPS Social Integration, together with the federations of OCMWs, has determined the modalities under which OCMWs can resume their support activities. Fortunately, the low point of the health crisis is behind us; at least we hope so. But this crisis will continue to have a significant social impact on a large number of people. What we are seeing today is probably only the tip of the iceberg. We will have to remain mobilized on the social issue in the coming weeks and months. With a risk of falling GDP between 9 and 10 per cent, there will be social repercussions. At the federal level, we have anticipated taking action, but we will have to keep in touch with the CPAS and social actors in order to assess the situation and be as close as possible to the needs, in order to meet, where appropriate, an increase in those needs. It is also important to increase student support at this particularly difficult time. Many parliamentarians have asked questions about this. Job students were identified as a priority group by the task force to assess the impact of the VOCID-19 crisis on vulnerable groups. In this context, I was able to raise the ceiling of the social professional exemption for scholarship students, for the duration of the exceptional measures on temporary unemployment. I would also like to point out that the CPAS have organized themselves to deal with requests for assistance over time, despite the crisis. With the Social Integration SPF, we ensured that we kept as close as possible to the needs of CPAS even during the crisis. They were therefore not confined and were active. With respect to the impact on maintenance debtors, the legislation in place is flexible and allows CPAS to take into account the financial situation of maintenance debtors and the related family implications. The social impact of the COVID-19 crisis has already been felt. There is a fear that the social consequences will get worse in the coming months. In order to mitigate the direct impact on the families who have lost some of their income or for whom the living costs have increased, for example by additional expenses for the children, I have obtained the government's agreement to grant a grant of EUR 15 million to the OCMWs. It is too early to give precise figures, but we are indeed seeing an increase in social aid. The POD Social Integration has set up a close monitoring with the OCMWs to monitor the evolution of the number of applications from the OCMWs. Thus, the amount of subsidy for CPAS was estimated on the basis of their total expenditure on supplementary social assistance on the basis of data supplied by CPAS federations and Belfius data. This subsidy is 176 million for a year. The additional $15 million provided by the federal government was estimated as a result of a 30 per cent increase in requests for three months based on the first elements of the monitoring set up by the Social Integration PPS. This budget of $15 million was allocated among CPAS according to a usual allocation key. This key takes into account the level of poverty in the municipality and is already used in the context of participation and social activation: 75% of people benefiting from the integration income and the RIS equivalent and 25% of beneficiaries of the increased intervention (BIM status). We work on the basis of distribution methods that have already been tested regularly. This grant allows the OMCWs to intervene for all kinds of requests for occasional aid. I am thinking of material, social, medical, medical, social or psychological help. This aid can help to support people in order to prevent them from ending up in a spiral of excessive debt and poverty. As I said, a monitoring was introduced to refine the situation and to respond quickly when needs would increase. I will conclude with Mrs Lanjri's final questions on the modalities of the GPMI during the lockdown period. On 18 March, I asked my administration to inform the OMCWs of the measures to relax the regulation of the right to social integration. As a result of the COVID-19 crisis, the PPS Social Integration has a regularly updated FAQ on its website. The information is also sent via an electronic newsletter. All measures were discussed with the federation of OCMWs. As far as ISIP is concerned and, more generally, the provision at work, it has been recommended – and I insist on it – to the SACs to act with the flexibility required. This is obvious: a user cannot meet certain ISIP objectives in the current circumstances. This case is therefore a matter of force majeure. Consequently, the obligations in this regard are naturally suspended as a matter of course. It could not be otherwise. Otherwise, we should inform our administration. Therefore, the CPAS cannot sanction a user during this period. The rule of this relaxation measure will be considered in the context of the de-consolidation plan and depending on the situation. Each decision will, of course, be taken in full consultation with the CPAS federations. That, Madam President, is my full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I think this is an important issue, and that is why so many questions have been put, even though I note that some of my colleagues are not here today. I myself had some delay, but I followed the meeting from the car anyway. In reply to your reply, I would first of all like to say that we are grateful that the government has quickly taken measures on additional financial resources, both in the form of additional financial support for target groups such as people with a living wage, an IGO and persons with disabilities, for whom there will be EUR 50 for six months, and additional funds for the OMCWs, which will allow the OMCWs to make funds available to the most vulnerable. At this time, we are all affected, but the people who have had difficulties getting the ends tied together, who have already received benefits or have lived on a small income from work, are having a particularly difficult time. It is true that we need to provide additional resources for these people. I would therefore like to thank you for the government's decision on these measures. In addition, I would like to insist that additional medium-term resources are already being looked at. We have always sought to raise benefits above the poverty line and this must be objectively preserved. The initiatives taken so far are necessary in the context of the corona crisis, but in the long term benefits must be raised above the poverty line. For CD&V, this must be re-incorporated and, above all, implemented. In my view, the task force has been an important tool for involving civil society in the policy to be pursued in the context of the corona pandemic. Through my questions I have pointed out that things have gone wrong. For example, the consultative group has proposed very nice measures, but there has been too little feedback. I have now understood that the intention is to link back much more in the future and also to improve the flow of information. I assume you'll also make sure that something of it comes on paper. In this way it can be made clear which of the proposed measures have already been implemented and which proposals should rather be implemented as medium-term structural measures, possibly transferring them to a subsequent government. It is better that this is said and made clear, so that people in the field know that the efforts they have made, together with a lot of people in the sector, have not been for nothing, that they have been able to provide input. Minister, I continue to insist that it is important for the task force to involve people from the field when certain issues are discussed. I fully understand that a working group with 40 or 60 participants is not feasible, but it is possible to invite certain experts on an ad hoc basis. When it comes to homeless people, it is best to invite the people of the terrain who are working on the homeless. Finally, thank you for the answer to my question on the IPMI. We all know, there are conditions attached to obtaining a living wage. This applies both to students and to others. In this corona period, students have certainly had a hard time. They were in the inability to study and take lessons or practice a student job. At such a time, these conditions need to be applied smoothly, which is what I insisted on. I am glad that you agree and that you have called on the OCMWs to deal with this smoothly. This afternoon, moreover, we will be discussing a legislative proposal here in the Committee on Social Affairs, with a solution for the students. We also want a solution, but I think the OMCWs can help people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I would like to go into the GPMI in more detail. That seems to be the logic itself. I honestly cannot imagine that there are OCMWs who, during that period of pure lockdown measures such as the mandatory search for a student job, have tried to pursue. I want to throw the same feather at the OCMWs. I know very well what's going on there. It is important that they are well supported. I'm very happy about it. You listed a whole series of measures, some of which were very necessary and very targeted during the crisis. As far as the last measures in your reply are concerned, I am still a little hungry. I have a bit of a feeling there that the other way around has worked and that a figure has first been agreed that sounds good and that people are now going to look at what exactly is needed. That is not the right way to deal with these times. On the other hand, I also understand that only a fully-fledged government can finally stop this trend. However, I do follow you when it comes to the need for good support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I have a few more questions to clarify. An increase of EUR 50 for six months is a good thing, but with this EUR 50 more, the income of the beneficiaries remains well below the poverty line. We must not lose sight of this important objective of raising the benefit, which has been formulated for more than a decade. With 50 euros a month more benefits, it will survive for those people. I asked a question on this which I did not receive an answer to. What about the people who are in collective debt mediation? They are legally obliged to deposit the money into the debt intermediary's account. I suppose it is intended that the 50 euros should be more intended to cover the additional costs that are now available? I think it is important that you give this signal to the debt intermediaries and that you give them guidelines. You didn't say anything about this. I do not know what the possibilities are, but I assume you support this question. I think it's supposed to go to the people themselves. I would also like to clarify the 15% increase in the refund rate. Is this a temporary increase for all the files? Does the increase in the refund rate also apply to new files? I thought it would apply to all the dossiers, but I would have liked to be clear about this. I understand what Mrs Van Peel is saying about the EUR 100 million. Nor have I received an answer to the question to which these additional resources will be allocated. I understand that this will be mainly used in the fight against energy poverty. Can you give us more information on this? Is it about additional support? Is it about energy scans or energy-efficient measures? This is a decision that was taken very recently, but you will undoubtedly have more information on it. I would also like to join Mrs Lanjri in what she said about the task force. The Belgian Anti-Poverty Network is currently the only independent civil society organisation involved in the Task Force. Depending on the issues on the agenda, it should nevertheless be possible to offer representatives of other target groups the opportunity to take part. That would be very enriching for the decisions and the themes addressed in this task force. I would have liked some more clarification on the collective debt mediation. Is that a temporary general reimbursement rate or is it really just about the new files? It would also be nice if you could give us some more information on the additional EUR 100 million recently committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u17	Minister, with respect to increasing the resources of the CPAS, we recognize the substantial effort that is being made. I would like to join my colleague, Mrs Willaert, when she asks what the sums mentioned are going to be used for. The measure is indeed new. I guess it'll take a few hours, a few days to be able to dedicate those 100 million. But I was wondering whether it was planned that the task force would be asked to address the question of the allocation of these resources and whether you were considering questions of redeployment and therefore of the integration of this fight against precariousness, in measures aimed at redeployment - for example energy - essential in the most precarious environments. I'm just coming to this task force. It is felt to have been extremely important in defining vulnerable audiences and in proposing a comprehensive view of challenges and needs. We would all be very interested, as Mrs Lanjri said, in receiving a written document, a report from this extremely interesting period when people on the ground were urgently asked to work with politics. We believe that the initiative is interesting and needs to be further highlighted. The presentation of a report, and why not hearings, are planned to discuss it with you? This would be of great interest, especially in determining what is being done with this group afterwards. Is it already planned to maintain it after, in the course of 2020-2021? Indeed, it is very relevant. On the question of students, and more specifically of ISIP, I am glad to hear you say that it has been recommended to work with flexibility and that it is a question of suspension. I guess it'll be up to an indefinite date. Have any concrete elements already been announced to the CPAS? Indeed, we know that the cultures of CPAS can vary from one municipality to another, from one area to another, depending on expectations, needs and situations of insecurity. This often has relevance and legitimacy. I hope I have heard from you that there is normally no sanctions but flexibility. I think that this is a little in contradiction with elements that come back to us, particularly the obligation to find a student job, for example. Some people say, "I'm being asked to get a student job for at least a month on the two summer months." It is known that the success situation is extremely confusing and confusing in this month of June and that the students will not necessarily validate all the ECTS prescribed in the ISIPs. Again, minister, have you wanted, requested or sent signals for greater flexibility? I am really afraid that summer is a complicated time for students who will be in latency and who would be asked in addition to finding a student job that there will not necessarily be. They will be in a working position to be able to succeed and validate their ECTS in September. All this is very complicated. I agree and thank you for your answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u18	Since we are in a topical debate, do political groups that have not spoken so far wish to speak? If this is not the case, I give the floor to the minister to respond to the various elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the quality of the speeches. As far as the task force is concerned, I do think it is a good tool. I do not know if it has to be extended in time, but the initiative we have taken to put it in place, together with my colleague Mrs Muylle, has offered us opportunities. It's not just about being between politicians. This task force is based on a consultation group. It includes CPAS, Myria, field players, food banks, etc. The interest of this consultation group is that it is really connected very regularly with social and field actors. That is what has enabled us to be effective in the way we have been able to identify vulnerable groups because it was the object of the task force. The aim was to identify together, with the actors on the ground, the increasing needs of vulnerable groups or new vulnerable groups, in the light of the crisis. It is not a group of experts that remain between them. It's happy because politics has an interest when you have contact with the field. I am not saying that for the GEES because Mrs Niewenhuys is a field actor. It also provided, in the context of the discussion with the GEES, a number of avenues which ultimately enriched the debate. Let us be clear, this allows us today, in two or three months, to obtain EUR 200 million in social response. I do not know if some would have given a few weeks ago a good chance of achieving a social commitment of EUR 200 million. We fought, with my colleague Mrs Muylle, and with the realities that we were able to trace back to the beginning of this consultation group with which we were able to work. You can request a report or auditions. The time for reports and hearings has not yet come. I do not hide from you that within the Executive, we are still in action in relation to this health crisis, its socio-economic consequences. But it is up to you to decide when you want to organise a follow-up and enrich the debate on the work that has been done. [[...]] Let me turn to the specific questions that have been asked. The 100 million, what is it? You have to read. I'm so sorry. The communiqués indicated that the $100 million would be complementary social assistance. I said it here. What is Complementary Social Assistance? It is more the responsibility of the Regions than of the federal government. The 14 million we had already produced to support CPAS was already complementary social assistance. This gives CPAS the opportunity to have the widest possible support. That is, it is not the Energy Fund; it is not just the taking over of electricity and gas bills. With complementary social assistance, food needs and medical care can be taken care of, especially at the local level. That is the point of this aid. At the time of the super kern, I had proposed that it be used as a substitute for too specific aid, since the needs of households are different. I felt very well, Mrs Willaert, that this is the criterion that you stressed as being necessary. From a technical point of view, we will articulate these various aspects, but I will be clear: we have already been able to mobilise EUR 14 million in supplementary social assistance, a scheme which we will reproduce and distribute in the same way. Depending on the module and the local situation in terms of poverty, CPAS will be assisted fairly. Secondly, what does this 15% aid mean? We have already used such procedures in previous years. We have to ask ourselves how we're going to evaluate an envelope. This will be done on the basis of an increase in needs. To this end, we will increase the federal support for the new RIS by 15%, to the tune of EUR 15 million. However, this does not mean that recourse by CPAS to these means will be limited to file costs - precisely not. It is in the interest of such an intervention, which is not aligned with supplementary social assistance, but which allows CPAS - depending on the increase in demand - to organize, recruit and not be stuck in an overly restrictive envelope. Moreover, these 15 % should not be solely committed to the new RIS, as their destination is wider. When I take this type of measure, it is always in consultation with the CPAS federations and the field players to see what help is most practical to use. As far as deconfining is concerned, we have a meeting tomorrow with the CPAS federations. In a logic of flexibility and consultation, we will proceed in stages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications. Do not misunderstand my remarks. I believe that it is indeed important to show some flexibility in relation to the policies that OCMWs, which usually do very good work, carry out precisely to meet local needs. I fully support that. With regard to the granting of EUR six times EUR 50 to persons in collective debt mediation, I did ask whether it would not be appropriate to clarify in a directive on debt intermediaries, should there be any uncertainty as to whether this premium should be included in people's living expenses. I'm sure I'd like to argue that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u21	I can hear what you're saying, Mrs. Willaert. But this premium is not an increase in social integration income. It is a bonus to beneficiaries of social integration income. That is the decision. It's not exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u22	If you have a question, you have two minutes of speaking time, if you have more than one question, you have three minutes. You can refer to written questions to save time for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u23	I refer to the written question 55005772C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u24	I refer to my written questions. 55005920C, 55005921C and 5506014C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u25	Question No 55006288C by Mrs Leen Dierick is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u26	Madam President, I will ask my questions orally by condensing them. I will go to most of the three questions I had to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u27	That is what you will say that will appear in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u28	Minister, I will ask you three blocks of questions in relation to the bridge law for the independents. This important measure, which the Ecolo-Groen Group has fully supported since the beginning, allows many people to survive during this crisis of the VOCID-19. My first point relates to the figures that have been published in the press on frauds and cases rejected by INASTI. 80,506 applications were denied, representing 16% of all applications. In addition, INASTI has already submitted 303 cases to an in-depth investigation within its Competition Directorate. Could you give more details about this? What are the motives? Are refusals concentrated in specific sectors? Do you intend to increase the resources of INASTI to detect these cases of fraud? In the press, we talk about people who would set up businesses only to be able to benefit from these aids. Is that true? What are the most common cases of fraud so far? My second point concerns the modalities of bridge law for the months of June, July and August. A number of sectors have been able to reopen since the beginning of June. The extension to 31 August has been announced. Are the terms of the bridge law the same as in March, April and May? Is it always necessary to demonstrate seven consecutive days of closure over the month to be part of the areas eligible for the bridge right? Are there any other modalities? I am thinking in particular of the trade sector and the Horeca which had to close during the confinement. How does this measure apply until the end of August? My third question concerns the announcement of a right to take over, after 31 August, for the specific sectors that have been most affected by the crisis, such as horeca, the cultural sector, events, and some local businesses. Such a right to take over bridge is a good measure. Could you describe his terms and conditions from 1 September, if I understand correctly? It will be granted from month to month. At least 10% of turnover must be reduced compared to the same quarter of the previous year. Will an evaluation take place each month? Will some sectors be able to benefit as they go, and others more? Finally, do you intend to set up a specific support for this right bridge to take over? I am thinking of accompaniment via centres of expertise or through training centres for SMEs and self-employed people? It is a system that we find interesting to support these independents and independents, and that we support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u29	Minister, the media sector has continued to operate as a key sector since the beginning of the crisis. However, it recorded significant losses in advertising revenues estimated by publishers at 80 per cent in print and 60 per cent in print. While paid journalists are relatively spared, independent journalists quickly saw their situation become untenable. The Association of Professional Journalists has conducted a survey – I would point out that my question was tabled on May 28th and that the situation may have changed significantly with definity – among independent journalists in order to estimate the losses they are facing. This shows that, on average, an independent journalist lost 1,349 euros in March and 2,037 euros in April. The bridge law was expanded at the end of March as part of the VOCID-19. However, at the time of my question, some independent journalists were not eligible to benefit from this right because of two criteria which exclude them. The first has already been mentioned by my colleague. To be eligible, a minimum of seven consecutive days must be interrupted. However, it is well known that independent journalists have schedules that do not allow them to interrupt their activities during such a period, but that the workload per day can be greatly reduced. In addition, to be eligible, social contributions must be paid. Independent journalists on a supplementary basis do not pay social contributions because they are legally exempt from them. Minister, have you taken steps to respond to the particular situation of these independent journalists? I am thinking, for example, of the criterion of the seven-day interruption period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u30	Mr. Prévot will no longer be able to join us and his question therefore becomes irrelevant. As with the previous debate, of course, Mr Ducrame, you are free to answer all the questions if it is a global and more general development.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u31	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the replacement income for self-employed is one of the pillars of the response to this crisis. This is one of the first steps we have taken. Our self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises and liberal professions have been, and are still, hit hard by the slowdown in our economy, despite the lack of clarity. We were able to respond very quickly with the right bridge. This is not the only one; regional premiums have been granted. The bridge fee was paid very quickly and is monthly, unlike the premiums. The aim is to support and help go through the crisis, although some, given the circumstances, will find it difficult to cope. For this reason, additional measures are needed to support a number of sectors. As I am almost twenty years old in Parliament, I see how good a committee of parliamentarians who are technically involved in all the issues and in particular in this committee. Today, your questions relate to controls and criteria in particular. However, I would like to remind all of the Members present that the right of access that I have been able to present has been unanimously voted on as it stands. It's helpful to say that again. Parliament as a whole unanimously adopted this draft and agreed on the very flexible bridge law that I had proposed. I wanted it to be flexible but with controls. I would like to clarify the extension. As we have indicated, the right bridge of crisis is extended until 31 August under the same conditions. I hoped that beyond the right bridge of crisis, we would put in place a right bridge of recovery. He will be eligible until 31 August for all self-employed persons who have been forced to close for one calendar month and who will demonstrate to their social insurance fund a 10% decrease in their turnover compared to the same quarter of the previous year. In view of the month of closure, turnover is likely to have fallen by more than 10%. That is all in the interest of this measure. While a number of self-employed people would still be closed for seven days, it was a matter of not forcing them to do so for all those affected by a month's closure. That is why I have put in place the bridge right of take-over available from June. The royal decree of special powers must come back to us from the Council of State and I will be able to sign it in a few days to transmit it to the caisses, which are about to communicate the conditions of eligibility to their affiliates. This right to take over will, among other things, allow for unconditional opening and compensation. There will also have to be easy and flexible proof of a loss of turnover. Indeed, there are certain sectors, which are very minority sectors, which have not experienced a loss of turnover. You asked how many self-employed people could rely on the bridge law since it entered into force three months ago. According to the figures of the Association of Social Insurance Funds, on 3 June 2020 we counted 472,375 applications for the right of bridging. I had asked the funds to do everything in their power to ensure that payments were made from the beginning of the month following the month of the financial distribution. They have achieved this objective, and of course that will also be the case in June. I repeat that the work of the social insurance funds has been great. Within a few weeks, they have moved from a line of marginal activity to the traditional bridge right to the establishment and payment of the bridge right of crisis, with tens of thousands of payments per social insurance fund and thousands of daily calls to respond to requests for information. It must be made clear that, without the work of the social insurance funds, it would not have been possible to meet the needs of the self-employed. They have already made payments for March and April and this week for May. This amounts to 373.201 replacement income allocated for March, 386.189 for April and 351.407 programmed for May. In total and at this stage, 402,202 independents have already benefited from this measure, the time of their interruption. The social insurance funds point out that they agreed to 85% of applications, 15% were refused. In 31% of applications, this is a compulsory closure. In 59 % this is a spontaneous closure. With regard to the partial bridge right, for certain self-employed persons on a supplementary or active basis during their retirement, I should like to inform you that as of 3 June, 11,204 applications were registered with the social insurance funds. Mrs Lanjri, unfortunately at this stage there is no breakdown by type of activity or geographical area. Mrs Leroy, you're asking me about the situation of journalists. There are two possibilities. If they are employed and carry out certain free-lance services, such as the drafting of piges, they are not subject to the social status of the self-employed. They must therefore not pay contributions to the social status of the self-employed. As employees, they will also be able to continue to benefit from temporary unemployment, as you know, in the event of a cessation. If they are subject as self-employed, they are self-employed primarily and can use all the support measures applicable in the context of this crisis of the VOCID-19. They benefit from social security contributions and are, of course, also eligible for the bridge right. Each profession has its own specificities. We can't ignore them. However, one cannot envisage differential treatment according to each profession, you may be aware of it. Journalists, who have not been forced to stop their activities due to the crisis of the VOCID-19 by the National Security Council, must, like all other independents, completely cease their activities for at least seven consecutive calendar days a month. That was one of the criteria of the text that we voted unanimously in the House. There have been debates over these seven days, but I think that was finally what we all found ourselves on. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, like other professions, it is possible for these journalists to organize themselves differently. Why seven days of interruption? Because there is a decline, a contraction of activity. This contraction, in the course of the month, sometimes resulted in seven days of inactivity, fifteen days, and three weeks in confinement. So there was a minimum of seven days. It's already a fairly flexible device. Compared to these seven days, it is important to see if there is a decline in activity in contractual relations. It is, of course, a mechanism that is included in the text that we have voted for. This decline in activity must be linked to the VOCID crisis and must naturally be justified with its social insurance fund. It's not just a different organization of work. It must be a stop related to the VOCID crisis. Mr Anseeeuw had three questions about control. I have also read the article he refers to on 9 May. It claims that many self-employed and entrepreneurs would have wrongly used the economic support measures in response to the health crisis. This is a caricature based on no tangible element and is based on the far too often hung idea that self-employed people would be impostors. I cannot accept so much lightness from journalists who claim to deliver analyses. While we are experiencing a crisis on a scale we have not seen since the Second World War, such a grotesque accusation is completely unacceptable. No, the independents are not cheaters! As you know, Mr. Vanden Burre – since you're asking me about the controls – the overwhelming majority of those who made a request really need them. Some of them will put the key under the doormat. It is surprising to hear words that are so disconnected from what the independents are experiencing. I have some in my family, and these people are dying! Therefore, I am tremendously shocked to read some articles saying that they would cheat. I find it difficult to see parliamentarians relaying such theses, while the bridge law has been voted unanimously in the House. In addition, no one then requested more stringent controls or indicated that this bridge right was too flexible. Otherwise, this unanimous vote would not have taken place! Of course, controls are organised. Similarly, 15% of applications are refused on the basis of criteria and conditions – according to what we have all decided – that are not fulfilled by some complementary independents, because they receive another allowance, another salary or other social security. Above all, this system has been developed for self-employed persons as their main occupation. We wanted to extend its scope to additional self-employed persons who contributed as much as the former or who had at least 7,000 euros of annual income and paid the contributions. Indeed, the bridge law is closely linked to them, since in this way it contributes to the financing of the social security of the self-employed. This is, of course, where the report is drawn up. In short, 15% of applications are rejected – and I fully accept it. If the right bridge were to be done again, I wouldn't change it. It's obvious. So, yes, in any fraud system exist. That is why, together with INASTI, we have created a special unit to deal with this issue. As you said, there are hundreds of files. There will probably be even more. Those who have deceived will be punished and will have to repay the aid. In addition, other sanctions against them will be applied. The Fair Competition Cell operates probes on the ground. If some people abuse, they will be punished, as in any system. This is also the case in the case of temporary unemployment, where controls are carried out. The INASTI team has also been strengthened. That's enough caricatures! Or those who relayed such elements should not vote in favour of this text. If Parliament so wishes, once we have emerged from this crisis, I will ask for a comprehensive report on the issue of fraud, and I will keep it at its disposal. Finally, on a positive note, Mr Vanden Burre, thank you. Since this was the central subject of one of your questions, I think you have understood the situation well. I have asked that, as soon as the Royal Decree of Special Powers comes from the Council of State and we sign it, the social insurance funds inform all their members about the characteristics and criteria to be met, with regard to access to the right bridge to take over. The independents will be informed. FAQs will also be made available on the sites of the social insurance funds and INASTI. We will continue to communicate on-line with the independents in this regard. As far as the extension from 1 September 2020 is concerned, there seems to be little confusion. The bridge right to take over is available from 1 June to 31 August 2020. What is possible and is the subject of the super-kern's agreement is that the bridge right – in the same way as temporary unemployment because we must always see both in parallel – can be extended until the end of the year. From the moment you have a temporary unemployment measure, a right-of-way measure should, in parallel, ensure a right equivalent to the self-employed. It will therefore be possible, since delegation was given to the Government, beyond 31 August 2020, to extend a bridge right scheme until the end of the year. That's it, Madam President, I made it as brief as possible. I am naturally available to answer even more precisely on a number of subjects, if you wish, in the context of the ensuing debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would also have liked some figures, broken down by province or municipality. You haven't been able to give it to me. This does not have to be done in this committee, but can you send the figures for the report or send them back? I have only received global figures from you, for which I am grateful, but not yet broken down by province or by municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. You had no less than 30 minutes to answer all our questions. However, you did not do that. It is what it is. No one has called into question the right of bridging as support for self-employed persons in COVID-19 period. Everyone agrees with the vital importance of this support for many self-employed people, still today, but indeed for the last three months. That is why I believe that all parties agreed on the need to take swift and flexible action with this measure. We had to act quickly. It is not surprising, then, that this is adopted unanimously. I'm actually happy about that. It is important that such support measures have sufficient support, both in Parliament and beyond, of course. That does not mean, of course, that we should be deaf and blind to possible abuses. I have not taken up any newspaper article as truth, but those articles did give rise to a number of questions, which I felt I should ask them. You have indeed pointed out that I have asked three questions. Maybe that bothered you, but maybe that didn't bother you. Then you lost yourself a little bit in some rhetoric that gave you the chance especially not to answer some specific questions. My concern is, of course, and continues to be that there is sufficient support for these support measures. When I hear such reports, when I myself speak to accountants who say that some of them have the edge, and more than that, I worry, first of all, for all self-employed people who are in good faith, who are playing the game fairly. That is also the thrust of my question. That is why I have put a number of very specific questions to you. One of these questions was what instructions have been given to the inspection services, what instructions have been given to the social insurance funds, what conclusions you might draw from them over the last three months. My only concern is to keep that support for the vital support for our self-employed. You are simply saying that we are strengthening the caricature that all self-employed people would be impostors. Minister, we don't know each other personally. I haven't been in the Federal Parliament very long. Well, that makes sense. I have been self-employed in my previous professional life, so I know only too well that not all self-employed people are impostors, quite the contrary. It is just by not answering the questions we are asking here about preventing and detecting abuse and keeping that support, that you maintain caricature. It is because of your flou artistique, by your refusal to clarify here and to answer some very concrete and punctual questions, which are not suggestive in nature anyway, certainly not my questions and I will not comment on my colleague's questions, he will do so himself that you maintain that caricature with a number of people that all self-employed people are hustlers, profiteers and cheaters. You and I know that this is not the case, but it is only by providing clarity that you can undermine the image that lives in some people. It is by providing clarity that the support for this measure can remain cool. You shouldn't tire of pushing me in the corner like I'd say all the self-employed are profiteers. No, I just want everyone to know that the majority of the self-employed play fair, that they deserve our support and that they need it desperately. That is the thrust of my question. I very much regret that you did not answer my questions and that you still felt that you should put me in the corner of people who have something in principle against the self-employed. The opposite is true. I don't think you made the best turn, but that's on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer, which included some very interesting clarifications. Having said that, I would like to pause for a moment on how you react to our questions about the number of rejected requests, the number of frauds that have been announced this weekend, in L'Écho and De Tijd, which I believe cannot be said to be anti-economic or anti-independent. The Ecolo Group is convinced that the measures taken under the bridge law are very good measures. I am co-signatory to the proposal to relax and expand this right so that all independents can obtain it during this crisis of the VOCID-19. Far from me the idea that the independents are profiters. On the contrary, they are people who usually work a lot and most of them do not live on extremely comfortable incomes. To have independents in my family, it is a reality that I know, although I have never worked as an independent myself - even though in the past I have worked in the business world. Anyway, let's not play on the subject. We have nothing to gain from such caricatures. We are doing our work as parliamentarians. Numbers were reported in the press this weekend. I would simply like to ask you for more details on this. Which sectors are concerned in particular? We are doing the same with regard to economic unemployment and temporary unemployment. We also questioned your colleague, Mrs Muylle, and I do not recall being charged with the questions I asked her. My group fully supports the introduction of temporary unemployment in Corona. As you know, we supported this measure at the super kern level, as was the case with the bridge right. This does not prevent us from asking questions about possible abuses on the part of employees, as on the part of employers. Questions on this subject are, I believe, on the agenda of tomorrow's committee, Madam President. It is up to us, as parliamentarians, to follow closely these issues that are of great interest to us. It is therefore normal that, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, we should be able to ask for an account of a series of measures which we support - I repeat 100% - including, moreover, their extension. But this must not prevent us from bearing in mind the need for the proper implementation and management of these measures. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the work done by the INASTI teams that you have strengthened and that are doing a considerable amount of work to deal with hundreds or even thousands of cases in a very short time. I come to the clarification part. It was necessary and I thank you again. If I understand correctly, whether it is the bridge right of crisis or the bridge right of recovery, both will be extended until 31 August under the conditions you have described. That seems a good thing to me. Indeed, the crisis bridge law requiring seven consecutive days of mandatory closure, as you have said very well, typically the Horeca and local trade sectors would not have been able to claim this, which would have been counterproductive. They will now be able to claim the right to take over if they show 10% loss of turnover, and if it is a sector affected by mandatory closures. That is the case with my two examples. With respect to the post-August 31 period, could you clarify? You were talking about a parallel with economic unemployment and that an extension until 31 December would be offered. For what right bridge? The right bridge of crisis, with the seven consecutive days of closure? The bridge right to take over with the other modalities? I didn't see that distinction. Could you clarify again? Until August 31, things seem clearer to me. Indeed, a broad campaign for affiliates and independents is needed. We all have a lot of questions here. I imagine the ones that must come to you. It will of course be necessary to clarify, but these clarifications are in any case in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u35	Mr Minister, I agree very broadly with what my colleague has just said. This is in fact a matter of our parliamentary work. We must keep ourselves informed of what is being said, what is happening and what is being relayed to us by journalistic work. We must then come back to the relevant ministers to ask them what is the situation. I didn't get the impression that there was anything else going on today. I'm coming to the seven days. It is true, Minister, that we have all voted unanimously on this measure. I remember it very well: it was just after the announcement of strict confinement. We voted very quickly in the urgency of this opening of the right to a specific bridge to the crisis. We were in the early stages of this crisis. We would then be able to see the extent of expectations and the functioning of this right. In any case, I very much hope that in this Parliament it is not because we are voting a law that we can never then question it. This is all about it. We still support this text, but it does not mean that we can never evaluate the mechanism in place or question it, particularly about the independents. I talked about the journalists but I could have talked about the physiotherapists, the logopeds, those people who actually never knew how to demonstrate the consecutive seven-day stop, simply because they had very small periods of urgent professional application. A kine who makes respiratory kine for babies could not stop his respiratory kine because, simply, he absolutely had to do it. A journalist does journalism according to his field. Whether cultural or sporting, the decision was rather brutal and the seven consecutive days relatively obvious to be demonstrated. On the other hand, for those who are concerned with political affairs, there have of course been times when they probably had to go back up in an emergency to cover the current situation. We are not going to go back to the debate, but I just want to say, Minister, that the world of the self-employed is indeed an extremely diverse world. It is therefore normal and logical that at times we come to say that there is a niche, a difficulty, a problem that we can answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u36	Do other political groups wish to express their views? I can't see that. Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u37	Mrs Lanjri, I do not have the figures for the municipalities. Maybe I'll get some data later. There are eleven social insurance funds, they have a nose in the handlebars and their current priority is not to draw up reports and statistics. I will ask INASTI when we can have statistics by activity and geographical area. Mr. Vanden Burre, the super kern has delegated to the government the ability to extend the bridge right until December 31. Depending on the situation, a choice will have to be made as to whether to extend the bridge right of crisis or the bridge right of recovery. Mr Anseew, as far as the article is concerned, it was a caricature. This article was not based on reliable data. Instead of relaying such articles, relay something built and solid! I have not heard any questions about abuse from Mr De Roover in the supercore. The right of bridging was good for him. We have to keep going. That's what he said. Get in touch with your representatives at the N-VA! I didn't get it from Mr. From Roover, no obstacles, no questions about the questions you ask here; nothing! When we asked in super-kern if we had to extend the bridge right, that was yes. No question. Concert yourself, because it doesn't look quite the same as you! If some try to take advantage of the situation and receive undue aid, the amounts will have to be repaid. Judicial action will also be taken. In the event of suspected fraud, the Social Insurance Fund may rely on the RSVZ's Fair Competition Board, which, after investigation, may punish any crime with an administrative fine. Cases of serious and manifest fraud such as an application for bridging rights with false statements or false data or applications submitted on the basis of fictitious connections or bogus statutes will also be prosecuted. In April, I instructed the RSVZ to draw up a specific plan to combat the abuse of the crisis measures. The Executive Board of the RSVZ has set up a specific cell of Corona fraud and I thank her for her initiative. The ECL Executive Board has many channels of information for this purpose. For example, there are the notifications by the social insurance funds, cases are directly identified by the RSVZ, for example in connection files, reports have been introduced by the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service through the hotline for fair competition, findings are forwarded by other institutions or services such as the RSZ or data are still being crossed. Thus, 303 problematic cases are currently being examined in depth by the INASTI Social Inspectorate. Through the cross-checking of data, the ECL (Fair Competition) cell also detected 584 potential cases of affiliation as self-employed only for the purpose of obtaining the benefits of the social status that was developed in the context of the pandemic. In addition to these aspects, the INASTI, together with all the social insurance funds, undertakes a systematic examination of these files, in order to verify the authenticity of the affiliation and to identify possible abuses. The General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-Employed meets on a regular basis to assess the implementation of temporary crisis measures and measures to combat abuses. Every effort was being made to ensure that those who abused the right were punished. If you want to draw information from sources related to the action of our administration, I will give you, Madam Chair and dear members of the committee, a summary of the initiatives taken to combat fraud against the bridge law. In this way, you will have all the information. I'm saying, all of them. And you will be able, in your questions and in our future discussions, to have a very precise view of the question. I may get carried away, but when I hear such generalities and caricatures, it puts me out of my mind. We are living in a situation that the country has not experienced since the Second World War. Such generalisations are not right! It is easy to undermine an entire activity by insinuating that many self-employed people would fraud. As Minister of Independents, I cannot accept it. Of course I accept all the questions. And I would like to tell you, Mr Vanden Burre: I have no problem with your question, nor with yours, Madam President. But yes, the tone of our colleague from the N-VA in these questions was a problem to me in relation to the image of the self-employed. I hope that the details I have just made of the action can satisfy him, or at least reassure him. I can still clarify if you ask a written question, for example. Your comments about physiotherapists are incorrect. Specific FAQs were developed, at the beginning of the crisis, on health care professions, physiotherapists, dentists or others. They didn't even need to stop for a week. That is, during the week of interruption, they could make a number of appointments if they were medically urgent. And they did. Many physiotherapists, despite this one-week closure condition, received patients who required care during this week. We were in contact with the federations of physiotherapists. I can tell you that they have used this opportunity. To say here that physiotherapists have not been able to use this possibility is unacceptable. That's not true! And I naturally stand at your disposal to provide you with more precise, more intertwined elements. There's no problem. I am always at the disposal of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u38	Mr. Secretary, you keep missing opportunities over and over again. You also missed a number of opportunities with this answer. You have, first of all, missed the opportunity to recapture and stop turning this into a political game. Of course, our party supports the extension of the right of bridging for self-employed people who need this support. This does not contradict our demand for reliable data that shows that people play the game fairly. I've never generalized. I have said time and again that I am convinced that the majority of the self-employed play fair. You're nodding now, aren't you? But you did say something else earlier. You said, and I assume it's correct, that there is no reliable data to support those abuses. Again and again, I give you the chance to put on the table that reliable data, which you apparently have, and to demonstrate to those who believe that self-employed people do not mean well and that they do not play fair, that self-employed people should be supported. I ask you very specific, focused and neutral questions. What instructions have you given to the inspection services? That's a neutral question. I didn't say that everyone benefits, that everyone cheats. You keep repeating that you have problems with my questions. For the record, I think it is a punishment for you to say that I will give the committee a summary of what has been done. Minister, I put my questions to the committee today. I need an answer today. But you refuse to answer my questions the second time in a row. I take note of that. Nor do I expect you to answer my questions now, but you should not expect to intimidate me or discourage me from continuing my work. I will continue my work in support of the self-employed who deserve our support, not only in words but also in deeds. You are the one who maintains the caricature by keeping the smokescreen of possible abuse high, while I say: create clarity, because I am convinced that most people play the game fairly, please confirm that. That's all I'm asking. For the benefit of the honest self-employed. You refuse to do that, or you can't do that. It's either one or the other. You keep losing yourself in bombastic rhetoric, hoping you'll scare me off. Well, you don't know me well yet. That's the last thing you'll do, scare me off doing my job and try to corner me like I'm against the self-employed and like I'd say self-employed people are profiteers. You won't be able to do that. Whoever knows me knows that I've been self-employed and know a lot of self-employed people. I belong to a party that will remain the biggest advocate for the necessary support for the self-employed. But it is precisely to keep the support level cool that clarity is needed. You're refusing to make that clear. I will do everything in my power to ensure that this clarity can be achieved, for the benefit of the self-employed. You can try whatever you want, but the truth will come to light and that truth will indeed benefit all those people who play the game fairly. That's my only concern. I do not expect any further reply from you, you can always replicate and say a third time that I am against the self-employed and so on, but that will not happen. I will continue my work and the N-VA will continue to give the self-employed all the support they need and deserve. We are very convinced that they need our support, that that support is important, and that my questions are limited to that. I didn't generalize anywhere if all the self-employed were profiteers and fraudsters. On the contrary, I have said the opposite over and over again, so you can continue to fight against the beers and try to convince the people of the contrary. I support the self-employed, my party supports the self-employed and you should do the same by providing clarity and by putting on the table reliable data, so that the discussion can shut down and the rumor mill can stop constantly putting on the market that self-employed people are a gang of profiteers, even though that is not the case. You can provide that clarity, but you refuse to do so. That is not in the interests of the self-employed, and I very much regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u39	Minister, I do not want to create any confusion between my committee chair cap and my term as Member of Parliament Ecolo. I would like to return to three points. As far as physiotherapists are concerned, I have referred to the fact that when we passed this legislation, there were a number of cases that we could hardly consider in practice in the drafting of the bill. Hence these FAQs that came out of all our bills that went to the first day of the crisis to be able to answer all the problems, on the question of bridge law for example. As far as the report is concerned, I think the appointment is made. It may be interesting that we all have as much information as possible since you have it. Finally, Minister, when we invite you, it is because we want to do our parliamentary work. You're telling me that we're not necessarily properly informed. However, I would like to inform you that our last meeting here was on 27 March. It is therefore legitimate that questions have already been answered to the FAQs. I want to make a mea-culpa. I do not read all the FAQs that are asked about all the 14 bills that have been in committee since the beginning of this crisis. I think it is still legitimate for us to question and question you without having the answer that "we do not necessarily have an interest in the file". I would therefore like to reiterate my invitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u40	I didn't say that, Mrs. Leroy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u41	There was a moment of excitement. We have no longer understood each other correctly, but things are now clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u42	Madam President, I put my question to the House. 55003751C in a written question, to buy time. Mrs Van Camp is not here, so I suppose her question No. 55002354C, which is merged with mine, expires, but I have no problem with her being given her reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u43	Minister, I am not going to turn my question 55002777C into a written question, I would like it to be taken into account. Could you e-mail me the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u44	Mrs. Thémont, it will be done within the hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u45	Madam President, I turn my questions to 55003852C, 55006000C and 55007047C in written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u46	Madam President, I shall therefore put my questions to the House. convert 55006517C and 5507019C to written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u47	Madam President, Mrs Dedonder, Article 14, § 1 of the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration stipulates that any isolated person, as well as any homeless person with whom an individualized project has been concluded, is entitled to an integration income at the isolated rate. The integration income granted to a homeless person is therefore an integration income at the isolated rate. But you are right: the inspection service of the SPP Social Integration informs me, however, that in the course of its checks I have actually found, on an ad hoc basis, files of homeless people to whom an income of integration at the co-habitation rate had been granted. The justification given at that time would have been that the homeless person was temporarily housed by a knowledge that the homeless person did not pay rent. But that doesn't matter. You're right. When such records are detected, the inspection department, in its official report to the President of the CPAS concerned, recalls the relevant legal provisions, requests the CPAS to revise its erroneous decision with retroactive effect, and requests that the proof of such review be sent to it. If the CPAS does not execute this request for review, it may be withdrawn from the grant for this file. It's still important. With regard to the advertising of information, I would like to inform you that all the reports of my inspection service are published on the website of the Social Integration PPS, after deletion of individual data. The relevant directives are also clearly set out in the General Circular of 4 April 2018 on the Act of 26 May 2002. I also send you the response document by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u48	Minister, thank you. I find that what was reported to me is correct. Some municipalities take advantage of this to boast after not having homeless in their territory. It is obviously convenient to give a co-habitation rate, knowing that within a few kilometres, CPAS will grant the isolated rate as provided for in the law. I therefore wonder whether a document should not be sent to all CPAS to remind them of this fact. They are supposed to know the law, but since there are abuses, should we not go in that direction? They should be reminded that an isolated rate is mandatory under these conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u49	They're not supposed to ignore the law. However, in view of your question, I will ask the CPAS federations to recall this element to the CPAS members Walloon, Brussels or Flemish. I'm committed to it. We have a meeting tomorrow with the CPAS federations. We will communicate and ask them to recall this element.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u50	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u51	Question No 55002348C by Mrs Van Camp is not applicable. The attached questions No 55002354C by Mrs Van Camp and No 55003751C by Mrs Lanjri are transformed into written questions. Question No 55002777C by Mrs Thémont is transformed into a written question. Question No 55002639C by Mr Spooren is not applicable. Questions Nos 55002950C and 55003418C by Ms Jadin are also not applicable. Questions Nos 55003852C, 55006000C and 55007047C of Mr Anseew are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 55006517C and 55007019C by Mrs Vanrobaeys and question No 55004882C by Mr Bertels are transformed into written questions. Question No 55004293C by Mrs Depoorter is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u52	Minister, more and more data are available to CPAS via the Social Security Square Bank. It seems that the files of CPAS users are called upon to computerise. There had been exchanges on this subject in the course of February. Minister, what information will be included in the online file? Is a specific software being studied? If so, are CPAS consulted as part of its development? What is the estimated cost of developing such software?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u53	Mrs Leroy, the CPAS sector is already well computerized. For more than 15 years, all CPAS have used at least one social software to manage their users' records. There are currently about ten different software packages, which allow the tracking of a digital file for each user and contain the functionality that allows my administration to submit claims for reimbursement. CPAS that cannot afford to acquire software from a private provider can use Prima-Web, an application made available to them free of charge by the administration. Through these softwares and as part of their social survey, CPAS can use the social security bank network, which gives them electronic access to many sources of information in a secure, controlled, legal, confidential and proportionate manner. The implementation of these secure information flows is carried out in collaboration with the CPAS federations. It should also be noted that the administration has developed the electronic social report. It is a platform for the exchange of information exclusively between CPAS which is accessible only by social workers. This platform allows, in the event of a move of the user, to communicate also a series of factual information, such as the decisions of the previous CPAS and the last individualised social integration project contract (PIIS). The objective of this electronic transfer of information is to ensure continuity of aid for the beneficiary. The existence of electronic exchanges of information between CPAS and public institutions does not, of course, mean that user data are available online. Of course, their access is strictly regulated and controlled and fully respects the legal framework in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u54	Mr Minister, you are responding a little to our concern, that is, to this right to be forgotten and to the possibility of starting over again when we have decided to return to life on the basis of new challenges or installation in a new commune. It is true that with the appearance of these computer-based follow-ups, there is a concern that records or situations that were sensitive in one CPAS and that could be heard differently in another CPAS may emerge. As has always been said, the CPAS have a very local anchor and it is wanted because it is more representative. This allows for a better understanding of the terrain. It is important, however, that when a person moves, he or she may not be followed or pursued in the past. Nevertheless, CPAS do need software and a broader, cost-effective platform. The financial statements of the CPAS are known. Having platforms to computerize privacy is a good thing but we will continue to be vigilant, even if only to be able to respond to queries on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u55	Mrs Fonck, your question requires a fairly technical answer. I don't know if the oral form was the most suitable. I am at your disposal and at the disposal of Parliament anyway. So I'll answer you. The revaluation coefficient applies to all career years from 1984 onwards. It is obtained by dividing the index to which current pensions are paid by the average of the monthly consumer price indices for the year in question. An identical formula exists in the employee scheme for the revaluation of the wages taken into account for the calculation of the employee's pension. All career years of the independent scheme and the wage-earning scheme, prior to the creation of the health index, 1994 are adjusted by means of a ratio whose denominator is the average consumer price index for the year in question. In the wage-earning scheme, for career years from 1994, the year of creation of the index-pivot, the denominator in the formula of the calculation of the revaluation coefficient became the average health index of the year in question. In the independent regime, however, the formula remained the same. In order to maintain consistency between, on the one hand, the use of the pivoting index which is a health index to the numerator of the formula and, on the other hand, the average consumer price index at the denominator of the formula, the INASTI uses a conversion coefficient of 0.982397. An analysis of this formula is currently under way in the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers. The aim of this work is to assess whether it is not more coherent than in the independent system, as in the case of employees, the denominator of the revaluation coefficient is also linked to the level of the average health index of the year of activity and not to the general index of consumer prices. The work of the committee on this rather complex subject is being completed, I am told, and should be the subject of an important opinion. I say 'important', since it is the representative body of the independents. In a democracy like ours, which is based on consultation, it is a matter - before deciding - of having such an opinion. So I hope to receive it quickly. Moreover, I sent a letter to the members of the Committee so that we could obtain it as soon as possible, given the circumstances that we are going through. You know they're at the front, too. It is clear that the Committee's opinion is indispensable. As you know, it brings together all the organisations representing the independents. More than likely, I will follow up on his recommendation and follow up on it so that, if necessary, this situation can be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. You answer me that this is a technical question, but - I say it loud and clear - it is normal for me to ask you about this matter. It is the people who are directly concerned, in this case the independents. Moreover, I think it is the tabling of my question that has launched this famous work on the analysis of such a formula. It must be noted that when citizens wonder - as someone who had asked me to do - INASTI answers that it does not deal with it. He thus referred this person to the FPS Economy, which considered that the formula used was not appropriate. It doesn't matter what happened, but if there are just solutions. Indeed, I consider that there is a problem in the choice of formula, which has an entirely but negligible effect on the pension of these self-employed. I hear what you're telling me. I tabled this question in February and it is already June. In the meantime, the positive point is that discussions are under way. I hope above all that there will be a quick and fair landing for the independents concerned by these various points in the calculation of their pension. I hope, minister, that you will keep me informed, if I may allow myself this small supplementary request supplement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u57	The remaining issues were referred back to writing. Thank you, Minister, for your presence this morning. I hope we meet again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic207x.u58	In flesh and bone! Good luck with the rest.
