ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin with the topical debate on the guarantee of service in prisons. The Rules of Procedure require a topical debate if more than five questions are put on the same subject. All applicants may, of course, ask their questions. They get two minutes for that each. Members of other political groups may then also take the floor if they so wish. This can be done even after the Minister's reply and the questioners' reply. You will be the first to speak, Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u2	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to point out that, this morning in the Committee on Justice, my colleague Boukili called for hearings of the unions, prison directors and the mediator, but her request was rejected by a majority of Members - including those of the CD&V. I conclude, minister, that you accept only one bell sound from the House, namely your version, and not that of the other stakeholders. Second, the government is in day-to-day business. Yet, Minister, you are clearly crossing the boundaries defined by the spirit of the law. I am thinking in this way of the disproportion between Article 19, which states that you can draw up a plan on the basis of Article 17, and that it limits the operative part to the answers to basic needs. Your requirements therefore go beyond this well-defined framework. Furthermore, in order to get this law, which constitutes a limitation of the right to strike, you have stated that you have included social dialogue as an important aspect of this text. Yet we find that you do not apply what is provided for in your own law. In this way, we will continue the 20 January case, in which you acted frankly shockingly by simply repackaging all the people who had come to establish a real dialogue. In short, we are witnessing a social monologue! If you met the unions today, it was under the pressure of strikes. And, even in this case, social dialogue remained absent. Indeed, you do not even listen to their proposals and impose yours. I will conclude, Madam Chair, by asking two questions to the Minister. Mr. Minister, your law states that social dialogue takes place in prison. But you do not stick to it, since you bring a global figure. How can you deviate from your own text? Finally, the lack of staff in prisons is already staggering. So, are you going to consider that an officer on rest can be requisitioned? It is a concrete and precise question that I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u3	May I ask the speakers to stay within the speaking time? Otherwise, we're gonna get in trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u4	Madam President, in a topical debate, there is usually some latitude. Even if the Rules of Procedure speak for two minutes, speakers are given the opportunity to overflow a little. I appeal to your indulgence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u5	Minister, the debate on strikes and minimum services has dominated this committee and this House for a long time. I remember asking questions about it in 2010. In the meantime, we've been ten years. The trade unions have certainly kept their word, Minister, because when it became clear that the social dialogue with you on the introduction of the guaranteed service was going to drop, they immediately announced that they would stop. This has now happened in several prisons and is likely to follow. You have stated that you have actually had a lot of patience and that it has been enough. I understand why you are saying this because for years, including your predecessors, there have been negotiations with the trade unions on a guaranteed service in prisons. Back then, ministers De Clerck and Turtelboom have already negotiated a collective agreement. You too have done everything possible to reach a negotiated solution, and that has not been possible. Last year this Chamber therefore approved the law introducing a guaranteed service. Once again, consultations were provided for in order to reach the necessary agreements on practical implementation. Once again this appears to have failed. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. On 20 January last, there would have been a final consultation with the trade unions. In addition to your version of that consultation, there is also the version of the trade unions. How'd that meeting go? What's the outcome? Who was there? Who was absent? What does the cessation of social dialogue mean in concrete terms for the application of the law of 23 March 2019? Will the law be applied to the strikes that are now taking place? If not, what is missing to apply the law effectively? How is it going to deal with penitentiary officers who are failing to comply with the law today? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u6	Mr. Boukili is not present. Mrs Rohonyi therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u7	Madam President, Minister, as I have already mentioned in my previous questions on this subject, we have been several members of the Committee on Justice to visit the Brussels prisons in Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael. During our visits, many prison officers questioned us not only on their working conditions, which were affected, in particular, by the chronic shortage of staff, but also on their concerns about the establishment of this minimum service guaranteed in the event of a strike, while this right to strike makes it possible to denounce these working conditions. However, when we voted on the law of 14 March 2019, we were clear about this: my group supports the establishment of this minimum service because it ensures the basic rights of people, a fortiori in prison, where detainees are entirely dependent on prison officers. However, this is a limitation to the fundamental right to strike and, therefore, the establishment of this guaranteed minimum service must be carried out in a fully coordinated manner with the persons concerned, i.e. the agents. This is further specified in the wording of the above-mentioned Act. However, we have learned through the press your choice to unilaterally stop the ongoing trade union negotiations. Minister, have these negotiations been concluded and for what reasons? What percentage of staff is required for minimum service? The unions mention the figure of 70%, while you would mention the figure of 55%. On what basis has this percentage been determined? How will chronic understaffing officers for many years be able to take their days off if they are requisitioned as part of this minimum service? What have you put in place to ensure the recruitment of additional officers, the main object of the agents' claims?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u8	Madam Chair, Minister, I am not in my first attempt to get answers from you. I am optimistic; I hope to get it today. You know that in several prisons in the country, prison officers have launched a strike in order to protest the lack of agreement on the implementation of the law establishing the minimum service that you wanted before the dissolution of the Chambers. In Louvain and Saint-Gilles, the strike movement was at the strongest, with 25% and 26% of the workforce present yesterday morning, respectively. However, the unions had set themselves around the table and had shown their goodwill on this sensitive issue, while the working conditions of the agents and the conditions of detention were deplorable and seriously undermined the right to strike. The negotiations have stopped unilaterally – I am not teaching you anything – and seem to have been closed at a meeting. This morning, I vaguely read the press release, but it was not clear. Discordance points concern, among other things, the quotas of 70% of the minimum staff present in the event of a strike, whereas on average, Minister, prisons operate with a staff of 80%. We're already on minimum service right now! The trade unions also ask that the minimum number be taken into account in the light of the specific nature of each prison and the infrastructure which obviously varies from one place to another. Trade unions have always been eager to continue dialogue and consultation. Minister, it is really time to resume dialogue and respect social dialogue. Can you finally give us an account of your last meeting? Are you going to resume social dialogue? If not, on what path will you pursue and how will you lead to a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u9	Minister, the guards understand perfectly well that basic services must be provided in all circumstances. It is a question of the rights of people with whom they are dealing on a daily basis. They agree that prisoners are entitled to good meals, daily walks and visits by family and friends. The guards don't just want to be able to do their job properly to ensure that; they want to do a lot more than that all year round. It is like the guards, with whom the prisoners often have a good relationship of trust, who today are genuinely concerned about the whole. They want the prisons to function properly in all circumstances. This requires a decent occupation with a reasonable framework throughout the year. In prisons, the staff are currently on their gums. The problem is well known, the total workforce has been reduced by 500 penitentiary staff. Last summer there was a leave delay of 570,000 days. There is also still too limited cell capacity for 10,800 inmates, despite your efforts. The so-called minimum service would require even more people in some prisons than the framework for doing it on normal working days. The concern is therefore quite understandable. Of course, it is very clear that the so-called minimum service also requires sufficient people. Mr. Secretary, you tried to restart the meeting today. What is on the table about the percentage minimum occupancy? Does this only apply to the number of guards required or to the entire staff? What was promised in terms of framework for the penitentiary staff? You have always promised the trade unions that work should not be carried out under the established framework. However, that seems to be the case now. Finally, there seems to be also a problem with increasing the wages of the working prisoners. In last week's plenary, you said that it was only EUR 19 000. Why do you not find any support for this limited amount, especially as you indicated that prison work will generate as much as EUR 3 million gross, money that will be re-injected in, among other things, training, reintegration and the payment of debts to victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that from time to time you are taking back things that the unions say in the press. The whole question is what is the reality and what is the perception. First, managers are up to 96 per cent filled in. Few public services benefit from such a framework. Secondly, in each framework a buffer of 5% is included. It's a valve to cover cases of absenteeism. Third, the minimum percentages of service you hear on the radio are calculated on the number of personnel required on that day. The denominator is 95% of managers, not 100%. When the denominator is smaller, the fraction is necessarily larger. There's a lot of misinformation. I can't help it, but I have to tell you. I did everything I could to fill the frames. It is very difficult to find staff, you know. I have an agreement with Selor to speed things up as much as possible. The labour market is very attractive for agents who are safe, and I can't help it. I'm talking about the private market, among other things, and the police, too. So my new recruits don't last very long or can't always track the number of departures, nor the number of pensioners. The age pyramid is not very favourable. Then I negotiated the minimum service in four phases. We started to negotiate informally in 2017, after the strikes of 2016. After the promise I made in December 2014, we started negotiating the minimum service informally in 2017, at numerous high-level meetings with the public service unions represented alongside the prison unions. This eventually led to what became, Mr. Van Hees, our law. Not mine, ours. We voted for it. The opposition voted against; however, it is the law of this Parliament. That is the reality, that is democracy! Stop saying that's my law! This is a law that has been wanted by this Parliament for ten years, Mr Van Hees. And by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CPT) for 30 years. I may have said "our law of 2018", but our law dates back to spring 2019. In 2018, I negotiated as it should at the central level, officially this time. After this first round of social negotiations, I implemented a second round, namely the negotiation of the royal decree of principles which determines a framework plan for a type of prison, negotiated at the social level and decided in August 2019. In the third round of social negotiations, the Royal Decree on Staff Regulations and Social Consultation was discussed. A strike procedure has been established. What was already enshrined in the law of March 2019 is that prison officers are statutory officers who are not contractualized. They are statutory because they participate in public authority. We have taken this law that is ours in the midst of destaturization and privatization. Remember that if public authorities continue to outsource everything that is complicated, there will be no more public officials! It's a lot easier to have private prisons, if we continue this way. I have always defended the idea that prisons would be public and served by the public service! That's what's in the law! Moreover, it was necessary to negotiate prison by prison. I started these negotiations in September 2019 and, apart from a union, most unions never came to prison meetings by prison. Never! I then took the thread back where it had been lost, i.e. at the central level, in November. There we have tried to do, ladies and gentlemen, what you think we cannot do, namely listen. The trade unions have asked for mediation. Even though I was not obliged to do so, I allowed it. We have done our best with the mediator of the FOD WASO to find an agreement. You have to teach Antwerp, Mr Van Hees, an old monkey no tossing around. I understand that it is not about implementation, if resistance is such a principle. I can understand that at my age. The conciliation thus remained unfulfilled. On 20 January, I supported this and took responsibility for putting an end to the social dialogue. As the law dictates, the minister must then take the ministerial decision by prison. At that time the union said that it was not accepted and that I had to negotiate prison by prison. I had negotiated, prison by prison, only no one had come, colleagues, except one union. I then decided to speak to the trade unions at the highest level, as I did last Monday. I invited the three trade unions and said that I would make a counter-proposal on Wednesday morning. Today's Wednesday. I made a counter-proposal this morning. After two hours of discussion and listening carefully, I referred to the plans currently under way, which set ceilings per prison. In a particular prison, it may be a maximum occupancy of 80 agents on a strike day, where the normal occupation is 150 agents. 80 out of 150 is about half. In fact, that is less, because 150 is only 95 % and not 100 % of the framework. 100 percent would be about 160 agents. So it's actually 80/160 or half. Half of them have to be there. Those 150 cops work a normal day in three shifts for a 650-man prison. That 80, the maximum, may modulate the management according to the needs of the day when it establishes a strike. On Sundays one does not need 80. If there is no shower to be given that day, no 80 staff are required. If there is no court on that day, there will be no need for 80 staff. Then 60 employees or less can suffice. So I suggested making a fork of 25 %. Eighty minus 25 % of 80 is 80 minus 20, because 25 % of 80 is 20. So that's 60. Within that fork from 60 to 80, the Director shall determine how many staff he needs on a given day. They will often be willing to work. Now, Mrs. Rohonyi, when we talk about 70%, I don't know where that figure comes from. There are 300 prison officers in this prison. At 24 hours, 150 of them have to work. Of this half, I say that 80 men or women - or at least 60, depending on the day - must continue their activities. Let's take an average of 70. So, 70 out of 300, it's just under 25%. Of those 70, there may be 35 who, in any case, wanted to work. As far as the others are concerned, I never use the term you used, Mr Van Hees. Through the governor, we can ask those who do not want to work to come and do their job. This means that 35 out of 300 officers would have been asked to come to work, even if they did not want to. It's not that big! So let's dedramatize the situation! The principle is that prisoners receive a minimum service. We passed a law. My duty is – even in day-to-day affairs, Mr. Van Hees, because it is urgent – to enforce the law that you passed. And I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u11	Minister, first of all, I have always opposed this law. That is why I voted against. Besides, our party is not the only one who did it. Then you say that this is not your law, but that of Parliament. Excuse me, but we know very well how this House works: generally, it is the government that develops the majority of the laws and imposes them - when it is not diamond-makers who do it, but I will not come back to it. Clearly, you make sure that the frame is practically full and that few places are in the same case. So how is it that 540,000 days off are not taken? There is therefore a problem in prisons. Clearly, we perceive two different realities. You accuse the unions of misinformation. But it's on your side. For example, you do not take into account the proposals that the unions have submitted to you at all. You come with yours, expecting them to accept them as they do. You don't negotiate prison by prison as it is in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u12	Mr. Van Hees, they didn't come!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u13	On January 20, you're the one who didn't come, while they were here to discuss prison by prison! Don't turn it around! The unions tell you clearly that your proposal is unbudgetable and the strike is likely to take place this Friday. We are therefore in the scheme according to which, in order to pass this law which is yours, you announce that there will be a concertation, but when it comes to negotiating prison by prison, you refuse it! We therefore continue with the logic of denying the right to strike. You totally deny the role of trade unions. This confrontation goes very far and you are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u14	Minister, I would like to discuss a few things. I understand, of course, the views of the guards when it comes to the way in which they work in prisons. I understand the position of the prisoners, who, of course, do not have a fair regime when they stop, and I understand the position of the police, who have to stand in and do their other work. These are all reasons why minimum services have been decided upon in this House. That has been discussed and negotiated for as long as I know - and probably before - and I have been in the Chamber since 2010. I therefore understand the views of the guards, but I am asking them a great deal of questions about the trade unions and I wonder if they have the right views. You say today, Minister, that the trade unions do not show up. Then it's hard to negotiate. I think it is the punishment that is said not to be listened to. I think Mr Van Hees did not listen very carefully to your reply, but I note, Minister, that today you formally state that the trade unions did not initially show up. I assume that everyone was present at the plant this week, when you brought together the highest authorities. You made a proposal. The required presences are not at all the percentages quoted in the press, if I understand correctly: you speak of 15%, you speak of 35 out of 300 staff. Those are very different percentages. I assume that the trade unions are now linking back to their people, because you made that proposal today, and we will see how it goes. It is important in this dossier that the right information should be provided where it is needed, because no one will benefit from disinformation. We, as Members of Parliament, also have a role to play and must contribute to this. We cannot participate in the disinformation, simply to be for the sake of any organization. We have one objective: the minimum service which the Council of State has said will not limit the right to strike, taking into account both the grievances of the guards and the living conditions of the prisoners. That needs to be worked out. The law is here today:dura lex, sed lex.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u15	Minister, thank you for your clarification, particularly as regards the negotiation procedure with the unions. I do hear that sometimes wrong information has been circulated. But two things one. What I am not questioning at all is the law as such. We voted for it; in any case my group voted for it. I have a problem with the way in which it is implemented. I hear that the unions have not always come to the negotiating table, but we must also ask ourselves why. I think what motivates them to assert their right to strike is their working conditions. It is also a way for them to denounce these working conditions. I think that what they also regret is the lack of long-term consultation with you, thinking: why would there be constructive consultation with you when there is a social conflict, as provided for in the law, if already at the time of determining the modalities of consultation upstream, this consultation does not take place? I wanted to go back to this lack of manpower, because it is this point which is denounced by the unions and which means that this right to strike must be able to take place at the same time as the minimum service. You're talking about a 96% frame filling. Is this really about all the prisons? The figure you've put forward is an average. I believe that there is a need for a real assessment of staffing needs in all prisons, even if this framework is to be reviewed. To fall behind this 96% framework is not how we will be able to truly meet the poor working conditions of the officers. Moreover, you mention the difficulty, which would be independent of your will, of recruiting new agents. Here too, we have to ask ourselves why. Why would these people be more interested in working in the private sector than in prisons? Again, it is because of poor working conditions and lack of staff. As long as we do not have this long-term reflection on the framework actually required in prisons and, in particular, prison overcrowding, the snake will continue to bite its tail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u16	Madam President, Minister, before I go back to the substance of the matter, I would like to talk about the information that we have. You say we're uninformed, we're making fanciful numbers, but we're reading the press. Like you, we're trying. It is not for lack of questions and, unfortunately, I very rarely get answers; again, fifteen days ago, in plenary session. You could, however, give the very important elements of your answers in two seconds, minister. It's a joke! You say that you take your responsibilities, that you have made sure to meet them, but I don't think we have the same sense of responsibility. Taking responsibility, in Latin, is "responding to" when you're above, when you're a minister. I am not going back to the principle of minimum service. I gave my point of view back then. Today's convenient. You have to find common ground with the unions. You have to make sure that the solutions made are different from one prison to another because they don't have the same needs. This will become surreal. We'll have strikes to organize the prison strike. If we get to that point, minister, I won't remind you of the disinvestment in our prisons. Indeed, the budget of justice has been cut – that's all it does to you? Do you blow when you're told the truth? The budget for the administration of justice has been cut by 20% over the entire legislature! A fifth! So, of course, the framework is not filled. They can't do more with less! There's tension. We have experienced many strikes in previous legislatures. I hope you won't let things go, and that's not a confession of failure on your part. You cannot today take into account trade unions, nor can you differentiate your policy according to prisons. Today, you show us that in addition to all this, you are unilaterally leaving the negotiations. That's right, Minister. This morning, a proposal was made in the Justice Committee to hear the unions. You say that we are misinformed, that we work with bad information and that we bring it back here, we can serve that. Let's meet! Let's bring the unions here, and so do you. Who's telling the truth? Can we have correct information about the framework? Everyone has exceeded their speaking time, Madam President. I respected him and I have the right to speak like everyone else. The question is really important and there are things that must not be let go. To blow is to show some arrogance. I'm sorry, I don't accept it, minister. Of course. If you do it with me, you also allow yourself with the unions. And you are surprised that this is not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u17	That's because you say untruths, Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u18	But no, I'm not saying untruths!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u19	My plan provides for a range of 25% depending on the institution. I just said it and you deny it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u20	But you do not take into account executives who are filled from one prison to another and vary, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u21	That's 25% fork, ma'am, you're not listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u22	Yes, I've been doing this for ten years! But it's not you that we're going to learn how to make grimaces!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u23	We'll finish here. Everyone has been given the necessary time to replicate. Mr Segers, you will have the floor in a moment. When everyone is talking about speaking time, everyone has about the same speaking time. You've replicated in time. That's correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This morning we discussed in the Committee on Justice a proposal to organise hearings on the difficulties in implementing the law which has been adopted. We are still open to this with our group. We are discussing this afternoon with the Minister, for which I would like to thank him. However, it would also be particularly good to hear the guards themselves. However, reference was made this morning to the hearing following the adoption of the new law. We should read the report on the hearings. You also referred to it. Parliament must respond with caution to new developments. However, there is another reality. There is a problem with the law and/or its implementation. That is why I once again call on Members to do something about this with Parliament. That is why we want to hear not only the minister but also the guards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u25	Minister, I would like to thank you for all the efforts you have made to establish the law and to have social dialogue organized afterwards. I can understand why some members are against that law. In any case, however, that law has received a democratic majority in this area. Colleagues, let me be clear. The right to strike is an important right. Every effort must be made to keep and limit the restrictions of that right to the strict minimum. The European Social Charter does allow restrictions on the right to strike, in particular in order to guarantee public order or to guarantee the security and freedom of others. That's what this is about. If a massive stop is made, there are others who have an impact, including, of course, the guards, who have an important and difficult job. The police, the Registry and the members of the board who have to step in also have an impact. Colleagues, it also affects the prisoners. Can it be remembered that we have already been condemned for such practices by our own courts and courts? The European Court has also condemned us on this issue. Even the Netherlands once refused extradition on account of that situation by judgment. The Committee on the Prevention of Torture has also publicly criticised us in a public statement in the absence of a regulation on guaranteed service provision. That too has a role to play in this respect. Minister, there should be social dialogue, no matter what you've done. For social consultation there must be two. There is no consultation with the empty chair. There is no consultation by being absent. Mr Van Hees, perhaps you can also point in your own direction. It is a problem that has been going on for years, even from previous legislatures. I knew once that they had such an agreement with the trade unions. There was even signed by a union and one you don't know very well. That's the problem. They were just talking about sens des responsabilités. Suppose this Parliament adopts a law to increase social benefits by EUR 500 million and to provide additional staff in the healthcare sector also for EUR 500 million. What would happen if the government didn't? You'd be screaming murder and fire. We now also have a law which the Minister of Justice imposes on us to finally enforce and regulate the guaranteed service after so many years of negotiation. We ask him: talk in advance and try to reach an agreement. He does. He admits again, after so many phases. Minister, the sense of responsibility is for you to enforce the law. If not, the Belgian State threatens to have to pay compensation. For this reason, too, I support your initiative. I'm asking for the execution. Colleagues, the guards have an important job to do. Boxes shall be completed. If I have just heard it said that there was hardly any investment, then this goes beyond reality. When we see how much has been invested in new and modern prisons in recent years, also for the benefit of the guards, because it facilitates their difficult work, we completely ignore reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Gabriels (2454) was deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Rigot's 2662 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u27	Mr Minister, asked last Wednesday about the implementation of the action plan to combat radicalisation in our prisons, you said that "great investments have been made in recent years in the training and awareness of prison staff" and that "the most appropriate supervision is offered to prisoners on the basis of the information available and the facts they have committed". Admittedly, Deradex sections and satellite sections have been created to prevent other vulnerable detainees from radicalizing under the influence of extremist radical elements within the prison. Except that, apart from being confined, these people do not benefit from any follow-up once they have served their sentence, even though they are still radicalised. I will quote the eloquent example of Mr. Jean-Louis Denis, a member of Sharia4Belgium, who was sentenced to five years in prison for jihadist propaganda and for inciting young people to go to Syria. After leaving prison a year ago, this person took language courses in a CVO in Strombeek-Bever, whose building houses a school attended by children between the ages of 2.5 and 12, including children who were victims of the attacks in Brussels on 22 March 2016. The parents, terrorized to learn that their children were with the individual in the playground, had to alert the associations of victims of the attacks and then alerted me. Minister, is it normal for people convicted of radicalizing young people to come back into contact with young people, without ever following individual deradicalization processes? Are you in favour of matching terrorist convictions with ancillary penalties, as is the case for convictions for sexual abuse of minors, where the person, although serving his sentence, can no longer participate in certain activities involving minors? What is the status of the coordination of the fight against radicalism with the federated entities, which must lead, as called for by the Commission Attentats, to a cooperation agreement? What measures have been and will be taken to prevent the recidivism of prisoners convicted of terrorist offences upon their release from prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u28	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, we must distinguish between follow-up during the execution of the sentence and follow-up once the sentence has been fully served. Deradicalization in prison is a competence of the Communities in close cooperation with prisons. It is also planned to talk about disengagement. For example, a dry book, a practical guide, had been prepared by Flanders in cooperation with prisons and a similar initiative was under way at the level of the French Community. There is no doubt that this cooperation between the federal level and the federated entities must continue to develop. However, I am not sure that a comprehensive cooperation agreement aimed at the whole fight against radicalism is the right path. The development process is very cumbersome and this also applies to successive adaptations. In my view, we need to step up and, if necessary, formalise cooperation instruments, for example, with initiatives such as the dry book, in the various specific sectors. As for follow-up after leaving prison, when the sentence has been fully executed, it is currently outside the scope of criminal proceedings and available judicial measures. In my view, it will be necessary to look at this regime that is fully applicable to persons convicted of terrorism. There are several possibilities. The extension of the regime for certain sex offenders that you mentioned is one of the possibilities. I would like to stress that the intelligence, police and security services in the local task forces continue to follow up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that a number of measures are in place or are under way at the level of the federated entities and that, therefore, you do not necessarily support a cooperation agreement in this area. This is regrettable not only because this request was made by the Attentats Commission, but also because it would make it possible to highlight the good practices in the north and south of the country and to bring them to the benefit of the other federated entity. I am pleased that you are in favour of a reflection on the follow-up of people who are in pain. I am thinking in particular of a reflection on ancillary penalties. Indeed, this is very important. Indeed, for the families of the victims, learning that their children have been brought into contact with a person who has been convicted for indoctrinating young people is simply unbearable. As I said, this is a matter of fulfilling our obligations in response to the recommendations of the Attentas Committee, but also in response to the requests of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In June 2018, the rapporteur came to Belgium and highlighted the absence of specialized, customized deradicalization (or disengagement) programmes. There is, in my opinion, a great deal of work to be done in terms of personalization of follow-up, both within and outside the prison. For the rest, I thank you for supporting the thought that we should have about ancillary penalties. My group will soon come back with more concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u30	Madam Chair, Minister, I'm sorry I'm late, but I was voting in the next room. Minister, my question relates to an agreement between Belgium and China on extradition. I confess that I was very surprised at the agreement reached with this authoritarian regime, whose content is very similar to that of an agreement - subsequently abandoned - with Hong Kong, which had pushed thousands of Hong Kongers down the street for months. In 2018, the Parliament adopted the bill approving the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium and the People's Republic of China on extradition. The purpose of the Convention is to facilitate and legalize extradition in criminal matters between the two parties to the Treaty. Belgium and China thus undertake to commit each other for the purpose of criminal prosecution or execution of the sentence imposed on the latter. As I was telling you, thousands of Hong Kongers went down the streets to oppose the extradition of fugitives to China. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch had also denounced the extradition bill. The following questions therefore arise in relation to the Treaty between Belgium and the People's Republic of China. How does the content of the convention signed with Belgium differ from that of the controversial bill and finally withdrawn in Hong Kong? Given the emerging European case law in this area, the withdrawal of a similar bill in Australia and the popular mobilization in Hong Kong, has the federal government changed its view on the merits of an extradition treaty to China? Is that why, according to my information, the Royal Assent of the Extradition Treaty has not yet been taken? Finally, how will Belgium effectively ensure compliance with articles 2, 3 and 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights in cases of extradition to China?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u31	Madam Chair, Mr. Cogolati, I have not read the controversial bill in Hong Kong in detail, but I do not believe that we can draw a parallel between this debate and our extradition treaty. The relations between the executive of China and Hong Kong are not the same as those between China and Belgium. The proportion of persons residing in Hong Kong who are of interest to the Chinese authorities, and even of Chinese nationality, is also not the same. Finally, the bill discussed in Hong Kong is a bill on extradition in general and not a bilateral treaty. Our extradition treaty with China provides the legal basis for extradition in both directions. Some judicial cooperation in criminal matters with China is essential to combat certain forms of crime, including organized crime. However, the treaty leaves sufficient room to refuse extradition if necessary, whether for Uighurs or other persons who may be sought by the requesting State. Thus, no extradition may be carried out if it is based on a political offence or on racial, sexual or religious grounds or on grounds of nationality or religious belief. There will also be no question of extradition if the individual concerned runs the risk of being sentenced to death or subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment. At least 40 countries have concluded such agreements with China, including France, Spain, Portugal and Italy, for example. The assessment of respect for human rights takes place in principle to determine whether the request for extradition should be accepted or refused. The question of diplomatic assurances, in the event that the person should be extradited despite a risk of human rights violations, does not arise at this time. This is a possibility which has so far been used very little by Belgium. The reason why the law of assent is not yet published is simply that ratification by the other State is generally expected before it is published.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u32	Mr Minister, among those European countries that have already signed this extradition agreement, there is Sweden in particular. The Supreme Court of Sweden has expressed itself very clearly on this subject and has said that even in the presence of identical guarantees - it is exactly the same treaty as with Belgium - the Swedish government is not in a position, despite diplomatic assurances, to ensure that there will be no violation of human rights, because China and its current authoritarian regime is not now in a position to ensure compliance with articles 2, 3 and 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I think that our country, Belgium, should really take much more seriously to withdraw from such a treaty, which is so dangerous for human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u33	Minister, the answer to my earlier question to Mrs De Block on 15 January in the Committee on Home Affairs showed that the task force Disappearances of unaccompanied underage aliens (NBMVs) had not come together since April 2018. Last year the press published that the Denst Voogdij counted 697 disappearances in 2018, of which 62 were alarming. We therefore think it is high time to come to a plan on the disappearances of unaccompanied minors. We now see that there is often a wait to appoint a guardian until there is a stable reception situation, but just as young people who are under the influence of a trafficker are abandoned. An important aspect seems to be a system of provisional guardians, for example institutional guardians, which can be appointed from the first contact with the government. This is how we get minors on the radar to fight against human trafficking and teenage pimps, among other things. I come to my questions. First of all, what does the Custody Service consider to be a disappearance? What if a disturbing disappearance? What instructions are given to the guardians? What is expected of a guardian in a disappearance? Secondly, how many disappearances did the Voogdij Service count in 2019? How many of them were disturbing? Thirdly, a provisional guardian may now be assigned on his own initiative or at the request of the competent authorities to the persons not yet definitively identified as NBMV, in the event of detailed reasons for urgency and following a description by the Voogdij Office. How many times has this happened in the past year? Is this enough? What are the conditions for urgency? How do you evaluate this? Fourthly and finally, how do you stand with regard to a more advanced system of provisional guardians where, according to specific problems, guardians can be appointed, for example an organisation or a person within an organisation that is given a mandate to follow up a particular problem, for example the problem of Maghreb street children in Brussels? For example, young people seem to be able to get on the radar, and one can build a file and do case management. For example, we know better whether there is trafficking in human beings or teenage pimps and at the same time we also gain expertise. For example, the information can be usefully followed up, also by the public prosecutors, who are responsible on the basis of the appointed guardian. Once the situation is stable, an ordinary guardian can be appointed. Do you see this as a good practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u34	Mr Segers, in the case of the disappearance of an unaccompanied minor stranger, the Denst Voogdij applies the ministerial directive of 20 February 2002, last amended on 26 April 2014 on the detection of missing persons. The public prosecutor's office makes the assessment of whether or not a disappearance is worrying. The guardian must report any disappearance to the local police and cooperate in the investigation conducted by police and prosecutors. The Voogdij Service registers the disappearances communicated to it by reception centres or guardians. This service does not therefore have complete figures, as police and prosecutors also register disappearances. Before 2019, the Voogdij Service noted 862 disappearances and 68 alarming disappearances. The figure 862 does not take into account the large number of persons still in doubt at the time of disappearance. These figures are not absolute and should be compared with the figures of reception centres, police and public prosecutors. In 2017, the number of provisional guardians was 69. In 2018, there were 136 and in 2019 the number was 93. High urgency arises when there is doubt as to the alleged minority and there are clear elements of trafficking in human beings, or when an urgent medical situation occurs. A provisional guardian shall also be appointed when the final identification takes place for a long time, e.g. in cases where parental authority is to be determined. Specific problems are already assigned to guardian organisations or private guardians with experience in the problem. They often look at custody to deal with certain issues, such as those of the Maghreb street children in Brussels. The appointment of one or more guardians from a given judicial district allows centralisation at a single court, given that the place of residence of the guardian determines the competent court. However, birds are appointed on the basis of their experience in certain matters and not on the basis of their place of residence. Nor are they competent to provide reception and specific guidance, but to direct these minors to the authorities responsible for reception and guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u35	Thank you very much for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u36	Let's get this straight. Oral question No Mr Rigot's 55002662C is converted into a written question rather than that which had expired. With the agreement of the members of the committee present, we shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u37	Madam Chair, Minister, the first transition house was inaugurated on September 9, 2019 in Malines. This pilot project for inmates at the end of their sentence was to be completed by 2020 with the opening of a second transitional house, which took place on 14 January. If you remember, I had the chance to take part in this inauguration. There are, of course, a number of questions about the team at this Enghien transition house. According to our information, it would consist of six life coaches and four force coaches. We remain somewhat puzzled at this. Minister, do you confirm the composition of the team? Are these employees G4S and/or Exodus Nederland employees? Can you tell us whether the training of these life coaches is a recognized training in a particular field of education? Can you tell us more about the coaches' missions? Is there a function profile that you can transmit to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u38	Madam President, Mrs Leroy, the current team at the Enghien Transition House is composed of a coordinator, an assistant coordinator and two force coaches. A team of six life coaches is also present. She is in charge of accompaniment and support, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, within the transitional house. Force coaches are responsible for the development, monitoring and supervision of prisoners' individual journeys. They are also responsible for the individual support of prisoners and the supervision of groups. They ensure that conventions and rules are known and respected. They maintain contacts with the social sector in the city. They have a professional bachelor's degree or have equivalent experience (social assistant, orthopaedagogue, nurse, psychologist, criminologist, etc.).). Life coaches are part of the team that will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the transition home and the supervision of inmates. They coach inmates in carrying out the individual and collective tasks of daily life within the community. They are responsible for the supervision of the group. They have a high school diploma (teacher, educator, supervisor) or a professional baccalaureate (health care, social worker, orthopaedagogue, nurse, etc.).). It should be stressed that the services of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation are also competent for detainees who stay in the transitional house. These prisoners therefore also have access to the offers of this service, which is preferably outside the transitional house, which is quite logical since one of the objectives of the transitional house is precisely to make the transition from prison life to life in society less abrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that during the evaluation, you will not forget those professionals who will give all their energy to make the project positive. I'm still cautious when I hear the term "coach of life." There is sometimes a tendency to use new words that sound better to talk about people who are going to be with the participants in this project on an ongoing basis. If we don't pay attention to it, I'm afraid these life coaches are actually going to become people in charge of the day-to-hour supervision of these participants and not in charge of the construction of a reintegration project in society. I hope that these elements will be taken into account in the evaluation of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u40	Minister, the government in current cases decided not to appeal the decision of the Brussels President who ordered ten children of IS fighters to receive consular assistance and travel documents for a return to Belgium. I look forward to seeing how the government will deal with the children who are returning now. How will you protect them? The children didn't choose their current situation, but their parents did. Both father and mother bear the blame for the decision to travel with their children to conflict zone and to raise them there. They chose to raise their children between violence. As far as we are concerned, they are no longer welcome in our community. For the returning children, a government can certainly take protective measures in current cases. This may be covered by urgent measures which do not fall within the scope of day-to-day administration. That is for sure urgent, because some of the children have already arrived and another part has yet to arrive. As a protection, my party previously suggested that we should be able to disable the parents of those children from their parental authority. If taking a child to war zone, or even more so, to an area ruled by terrorists of the Islamic State, is no reason to lose parental authority, what reason is sufficient? The same goes, of course, for the fathering of children in the area of terror. By the way, these are children who have no connection with Belgium. Mr Minister, has your opinion on the kidnapping of parental authority changed after the decision of the President of the Court of Justice to allow the children only to return? If so, how do you plan to work on this? Only four children from the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance returned from the conflict area on 20 January. Two of the youngest children would not have come, because they stay with their mothers in Turkish prison. How come their stay in prison was decisive for the non-return? Or was it because the mothers refused to give the two children with the Belgian authorities and thus obstructed the procedure? Can you explain to me how the children are currently being treated in practice? Are children already being taken care of by the grandparents in question, for example? I am very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u41	Mr Metsu, the withdrawal of parental authority is the result of a judge's decision. It is therefore a judicial procedure initiated by the Public Prosecutor, in which the Minister of Justice does not intervene. It is therefore not for me to comment on this either. It is true that some of the children were brought to Syria by their parents. Such a course of action is unacceptable, but it should be noted that 80% of children were born on site in the camps in Syria. The government is willing to repatriate children under 10 years of age, but their effective return depends, in addition to a number of other factors, also on the consent of the parents, especially mostly the mother, who stays with the child in the camp. At this stage, however, the refusal by the Kurdish authorities to separate mothers and children is, in particular, an obstacle to the return of children without mothers. Four children of two Belgian FTF women currently in prison in Turkey returned to Belgian territory 10 days ago. Those kids were placed in an institution. Both their families in Belgium and the Turkish authorities insisted that they return to Belgium as soon as possible, where the necessary care is available. The two remaining children were born in Syria and are still very young. That is exactly why the Turkish system allows them to stay in prison with their mother. It is quite possible that the two mothers will soon be expelled from Belgium by Turkey. The two women were sentenced to prison in Belgium. When they return, it is likely that the young children will remain in prison with their mother at the beginning, although this will of course depend on any measures taken at the judicial level for the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My main question was how these children are now being treated in practice. That was my most important question. You say the necessary care is available, but is that with your own family? Is that effective with the grandparents, who have already lost their children when they moved to conflict zone? Are they being taken care of by specialists? I still have as many questions. I would like to re-table the question if that helps, but I would like to know what you mean when you say that the necessary care is available. What exactly happens to the children who return? I'll retable the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr D'Haese's 55002716C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u44	Mr Minister, I would like to return to your answers regarding my previous question concerning the Penitentiary Research and Clinical Observation Centre (POKO). The decision to subject a suspect to a forensic psychiatric examination with admission to the secure clinical observation centre shall be taken by the investigating judge, the investigating courts or the judgment courts. You added that a forensic psychiatric examination does not always require a recording in the observation center. You then listed the conditions under the internment law, but these are independent of whether or not the forensic psychiatric examination should take place in an observation centre. Are there criteria for determining whether or not a forensic psychiatric examination should take place in an observation centre? Quid recidivism for sexual crimes, for example? Is there a letter about this or will there be? You state that a recording in an observation centre is only possible if the expert indicates in his report that inclusion in the centre is necessary in order to rule on the points set out in Article 5, first paragraph, for example on whether there is a possible causal link between the mental disorder and the facts. Unless I'm mistaken, that condition is not in the Internment Act. The observation center starts with 10 places and is extended to 30. In your opinion, that should be enough. The Bakelmans report of the Supreme Court of Justice shows very clearly that risk assessment is the Achilles heel of Belgian Justice. In view of the high workload, experts often have to draw up a report based on one or two interviews with the defendant, which makes it impossible to assess the risk sufficiently. A long-term observation in the POKO is therefore a necessary key to achieving better risk assessment of sex offenders. In view of the high number of sex facts and the high incidence of sex offenders, we wonder very much whether the planned number of places is sufficient. How many applications have there been for an observation since the opening of the POKO? How many FTEs are employed and what functions do they perform? How many legal experts are registered in the national register? How did that evolve between 2014 and now? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u45	Mr Segers, the general rule is that in certain criminal matters a forensic psychiatric expert's investigation can be carried out in order to determine a possible mental disorder of a suspect. If a suspect is in remand, this investigation may also be accompanied by an observation of up to 2 months. As I replied to you at the committee meeting on 15 January, an observation can only be ordered by the investigating judge or the investigating courts after the experts have determined their need. In view of the constitutional principle of the separation of powers, I cannot give orders or instructions to the independent judiciary as Minister of Justice, whether or not by means of a circular. The example I gave you earlier about the causal link between the mental disorder and the facts is indeed in the internment law, namely in Article 5, § 1, 2 in conjunction with Article 6, § 1. Since the formal opening of the secure clinical observation centre at KB on 5 December 2019, no inferences have been ordered by the judge. Recruitments have started since approval by the Treasury Inspectorate. These are specifically 1 social assistant, 1 psychiatrist, 1 psychologist, 11 nurses, 5 educators, 3 ergotherapists, 1 director and 2 administrative staff. I would like to stress that the Centre is already ready to carry out in-depth observations with the already available qualified staff. Last year, for example, an observation was carried out in St Gillis at the request of the Antwerp appeal court before the official opening of the centre. According to the latest data, a total of 1,571 legal experts are registered in the national register. There are 63 psychiatrists and 117 psychologists. Figures on the increase in the number of tenders in recent years are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u46	Madam President, Minister, at the end of 2019 you communicated that the first official imam training in Belgium will start in February 2020, so very soon, at the KU Leuven. You justify this as a follow-up to one of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism. Through training at our own universities, foreign influences in our mosques could be reduced. I was a member of that committee of inquiry, I supported that recommendation and I can certainly endorse that principle. However, we may still have to keep a certain number of things in mind in the practical implementation. You may follow the professional literature, as I do, and this week you will all be able to read that Brahim Laytouss gives the impression that the objectives are being achieved. In 2006, the UCL launched a pilot project to train imams, in collaboration with the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. That project didn't go very well at the time. Then what went wrong? What is the difference with the KUL initiative that is now being launched? Moreover, I believe that you are also negotiating with the UCL on the subject of imam training. The start-up of the training is subject to a three-fold condition. The starter must have a diploma of Belgian secondary education, he must have at least one national language and be familiar with the fundamental values and principles of law. The first two conditions are of course easy to test. On the third condition, I wonder whether it is a condition for starting or whether the training at the KUL network must prove that the person concerned is familiar with the fundamental values and principles of law. The training consists of a contemplative part at the KUL and a theological part on behalf of the AFOR association. I've been reading the statutes of that non-profit association. What role does the government play in establishing and operating this non-profit organisation? Training, including internship, will last for at least two years. How will it be verified that this internship cannot take place abroad or with possible foreign interference? Brahim Laytouss refers to that. Is successfully following the training at KU Leuven and the AFOR association a condition to assign a wager to the imams? With regard to the statutes of the AFOR association, we can conclude that the AFOR association still provides for the possibility to stamp certificates from abroad. How can we guarantee that this is not about foreign training? After all, it was the intention to check that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u47	Mr President, Mr De Roover, training is indeed the result of a recommendation from the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Attacks. We are trying to do everything we can to ensure that this does not affect the training of the ministers of Islamic worship in Belgium from abroad. It is clear that it is my intention at least to make the recognition as imam and thus the payment as imam dependent on taking up that training as soon as possible. Before she has been fully followed, of course, a few years will have passed. On the pilot project launched at UC Louvain in 2006, I can tell you that different universities offer similar programmes and that it is up to the UCL to answer questions about them. The training started at KU Leuven in February 2020 is different in that it forms part of a preparatory study programme on the exercise of the function of minister of Islamic worship in Belgium. The programme includes a civil part, which organizes the AFOR association on the Dutch-speaking side in collaboration with the KU Leuven and on the French-speaking side in collaboration with the UC Louvain. Training at the UCL starts from the next academic year. It is organised in accordance with a decree of the French Community of 7 November 2013 determining the higher education landscape and the academic organisation of the studies. The programme of the civil part of the universities is laid down in a protocol agreement between each of the universities concerned and the AFOR association. The training also includes a theological part, which will be precisely organised by the AFOR association. As you have seen, the social purpose and activities of the AFOR association are described in the statutes on the website of the Belgian Official Journal. The non-profit association AFOR is a private non-profit association entrusted by the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, the representative body of the Islamic worship service in Belgium and thus the interlocutor of the Belgian civil authorities, with the training of the ministers of the Islamic worship service in Belgium. You know that there is freedom of religion in Belgium and that we generally do not intervene in the religious aspect of a particular religion. So there is an indirect contact between the non-profit organisation AFOR and the Belgian government through the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium that is our regulatory partner. It goes without saying that in this way we will monitor the regular conduct of training. I also hope that, if necessary, radical elements can be avoided, precisely because of the training that is given to universities, the aim of which is to make students more familiar with the basis of our rule of law, with the basis of the separation of church and state and with the rights of women and of that kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Once again, with regard to the principles that you have broadly repeated, we are on the same side, let there be no misunderstanding. Moreover, as far as the principles of freedom of religion are concerned. If I am not mistaken, there is close consultation with the government in your communication. That's going to be indirect contact now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u49	I will, of course, pass through the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium who are in charge of managing the AFOR non-profit organisation. The State is not a member of the AFOR non-profit organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u50	No, I didn't. I can see the logic, but still, that "close contact." In any case, what I am missing in your reply and, in my view, Mr Laytouss's criticism in part is the watertight shot that should be increased in relation to foreign influences. That was, in essence, an important part of the intention. Perhaps you should be able to provide some additional guarantees there, because the technique chosen still gives reasons for vigilance. I can follow Mr Laytouss in that. We are still at risk with Saudi Arabia, but let's not forget Diyanet, because one of the members of the non-profit association suggested a pre-school in Flanders to complete it later in Turkey. This means that there are still some elements to follow up very carefully. To say that this would exclude the risk of foreign and thus integratic influences in the training of imams who are working with us would be greatly exaggerated. We are following up this dossier and hope to find an ally in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u51	Minister, figures from the Gaming Commission, which were never published, show that, during the playoffs of the last football season, EUR 4.27 million per day was deployed on Belgian gambling sites. That's 28% more than in the play-offs period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u52	Mr President, at the end of December an article was published in the Nieuwsblad about a report by the Gambling Commission on gambling advertising in the playoffs of football.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u53	Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Depraetere, the discussions in the Gaming Commission on the play-offs report were not concluded until 11 December. The report has now been published on the website of the Gaming Commission. It has always been the intention of the Gaming Commission to make the report public. The mandatory indication of the sentence "Gamble to measure' is only a relatively small part of the measures contained in the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018. In the last parliamentary term, I have been fully committed to better rules on gambling advertising, starting from the protection of the player. This was not always evident with the many competent authorities and partners. As far as I'm concerned, a further entanglement is possible. Anyone who wants to do so will find a supporter in me. The work of the sub-committees has now been completed and dealt only with the application of the existing Royal Decree of 25 October 2018. The Subcommittee has no decision-making power and could only deliver its findings to the Gaming Committee in the form of an interpretative note. The findings were validated by the Gaming Commission on 26 November 2019. The interpretative note should enable the Gaming Commission to deal with questions and complaints about the Royal Decree in a uniform manner. Advertising for licensed online gambling is permitted under the conditions of the Royal Decree. The definition of advertising is based on the definitions of book 6 and book 12 of the Economic Law Code. Banners are images that visitors can see next to, above or below the usual content of a website. Sponsoring is a transaction aimed at creating a promotional association. Messages advertising a physical gaming facility are covered by Article 1 of the Royal Decree, if the message is intended to promote the games of chance. First, Article 3 (1) prohibits the broadcasting of advertising during the direct reporting of sporting events. The report to the King provides a nuance in relatively broad areas of application. The prohibition of advertising during the direct reporting of sporting events cannot lead to the exclusion of competitions. The burden of proof for the inability to broadcast the contest lies with those who distribute the advertising. Any infringements will be followed up by the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission. This can be done after findings made during checks or on the basis of a complaint made by a citizen or a regulator.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u54	Thank you for the answers, Minister. You say you've taken many initiatives. That is, of course, positive, but we note that there is still a lot going on here and there. Only a week ago KV Kortrijk offered his supporters free bus rides after registering at Golden Palace. In my opinion, this is getting a little out of hand. Especially with the play-offs in sight, additional initiatives and measures would be better taken quickly than slowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u55	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The report clearly shows that there is a real problem with the role of gambling companies and gambling advertising in the sports world and specifically in football. We must accept our responsibility in this House. This morning, a bill of ours was on the agenda. Other legislative proposals from colleagues were added, which include age and publicity. There is now an opportunity, during the current period, for Parliament to do its work in this area. I believe that there is a basis, not only for the people, but also for Parliament, for real progress. I hope that we will also be able to count on your support and support from your party. In the meantime, it seems obvious to me that the Gaming Commission is doing everything possible to carry out sufficient checks and to act immediately. My next question is about that. In any case, I would ask for your support and cooperation, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u56	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Depraetere for letting me lead the way. I am then to chair the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs where there is an important vote on the agenda. Minister, recently an article was published in the press on the offer of KV Kortrijk football club. Whoever created an account on a gambling website was free of charge on the bus. In the meantime, the Chairman of the Gaming Commission, Etienne Marique, announced that he would look into this. That's perfectly right. There is no new problem with the practices that various gambling companies have with football clubs. Other clubs have already lured supporters with all kinds of promises such as encounters with players, but one must first register on the websites of the gambling sponsors. I've heard that the Gaming Commission has served several times with the Pro League. However, we must note that this did not result because such stories continue to reach us. Clearly, more is needed than just consultation. For my questions, Minister, I refer to the written version. I would just like to repeat the main points. Firstly, is it permissible for a football club to encourage its supporters to gamble by offering free bus transportation to those who register on a gambling website? Secondly, despite repeated rulings by the Constitutional Court, gambling websites continue to play on one website for which different licenses are required. For example, at Golden Palace that collaborates with KV Kortrijk you can wager as well as play casino and dice games. Although bets from 18 years are allowed, this does not apply to the other games. The age limit for this is 21 years. For my specific questions on this subject, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u57	Mr Van Hecke, this action advertises the gambling website in question and is therefore subject to the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018. The Gaming Commission is investigating the admissibility of this action because there seem to be indeed infringements of the Royal Decree. In addition, for the provision of games for which different licenses are required, as for the offering of personalized advertising, an investigation was initiated by the Gaming Commission. Again, according to the Gaming Commission, there are possible infringements of provisions in the aforementioned KB. On 18 April 2019, a declaration of commitment was concluded between the Pro League and the Gaming Commission. It includes qualitative containment measures for gambling and gambling advertising, as well as an explicit reference to the provisions of the Royal Decree. There has also been contact between the Pro League and the Gaming Commission during the promotion of KV Kortrijk and Golden Palace. The Pro League clearly indicates that it wishes to assume its responsibility and facilitate the contact between the Gaming Commission and the club concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that the Gaming Commission has rightly found that possible infringements have been committed. I hope that the Gaming Commission will really do its job and act. Maybe one should also go with the Pro League in consultation with the clubs? Maybe they don't all know? The gambling companies know enough about the legislation. A sports club may not always know that in every detail, even though one would know better. I think it's a good thing the Pro League takes responsibility. There is certainly also a need to tighten up and tighten up legislation. Parliament can ensure that over the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u59	Minister, in 2017 you announced that by spring 2018 you would present a policy plan with proposals to modernise the legal professions, including the profession of notary. In the meantime, a lot of time has passed and a policy plan has not yet been drawn up. Where do you stand on the layout of a policy plan? Is there gonna be a new timing for that? What's the status? What proposals would you include in the policy plan? In addition to two notaries, have you consulted other stakeholders for the preparation of the policy plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u60	Ms Depraetere, the report of the experts for the notary of the summer of 2018 has given rise to some concrete legislative proposals, some of which were transposed into law at the end of the previous legislature, namely the Law of 5 May 2019 laying down various provisions on computerisation of justice, modernisation of the statute of judges in business matters and on the notarial instrument bank. The report, which you will find on the website of the Justice Department, has therefore already been carried out for a piece. Further legislative changes concerning the modernisation of the liberal professions, such as the establishment of a National Disciplinary Board, chaired by a professional magistraat, were incorporated into a preliminary draft text in the winter of 2018, which was submitted to the government in autumn 2018. Due to the fall of the government, no further action could be taken. It will be up to my successor, if necessary, to continue this process and to achieve further modernisations which were also highlighted in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament 55002746C by Mr Raskin and 55002817C by Mr Bayet are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u63	Minister, in 2007, the Antwerp Islamic Association, a Pakistani religious community, was officially recognised. Earlier this week, Flemish Minister of Interior, Bart Somers, started the procedure to withdraw that recognition. The reason for this would be an internal conflict that has been ongoing since 2016. The board of the non-profit association apparently had problems with the recognized imam, designated by the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, and decided unilaterally to appoint another unrecognized imam. Although the process of withdrawal of recognition is a Flemish matter, I would like to focus on the federal tail of this story. The bets of servants of worship, including imams, are paid by the State. Can you therefore provide me with more information on the state of reimbursement of the recognized and unrecognised imam? Has the State also provided a wager to the unrecognized imam and from when? Was the allowance for the recognized imam already discontinued or is he still receiving a wager from the State? I would like to ask you to clarify the whole issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u64	Mr Metsu, according to Article 181 of the Constitution, the bets of the servants of the services and non-confessional religious organisations are borne by the State. On the basis of that provision, the Law of 2 August 1974 lays down the level of those bets. The federal government is responsible for the payment of those betting in accordance with the special law of 13 July 2001. In the Antwerp Islamic Association, the recognized minister of Islamic worship has been paid by the FPS Justice since 30 June 2011. The second person referred to has not been paid by the FPS Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u65	Minister, I did not understand correctly whether the recognized imam still receives a wager from the State. Is that mentioned in the answer? I certainly did not hear it, which is very important to me. I will read your answer again to know whether the recognized imam is still receiving a bet or not. I'll try to find it in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u66	Madam President, Minister, this oral question follows on from a question I asked you last week. Following the 24-year-old man who was caught in the Austrian prison just before Christmas planning attacks at home and in neighbouring countries, I questioned you about the situation here with us. More specifically, I asked you for an evaluation of your Action Plan on tackling radicalisation, which dates back to 2015, and which is publicly available on the website of the FPS Justice Department. You replied to me that the 2015 plan was evaluated and that the results were collected in an Action Plan 2.0, as you mentioned. Mr Minister, who exactly evaluated the 2015 plan? Which entities were involved in that evaluation? Which entities were involved in the drafting of the Action Plan 2.0? Can we look at this new action plan or will it be made public? What contrasts or similarities did the parties involved in the Flemish and French-speaking parts of our country experience in their evaluation? Are there specific problems on the other side of the language border that we do not know in Flanders, and vice versa? How does the approach differ in the French language section? Is there a different focus there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u67	Madam President, Mr Metsu, the first action plan to address radicalisation in prisons dates back to March 2015. This plan defined ten action lines which are reflected in the Radicalism Plan to promote an integrated and integrated approach to the problem. A large number of these action points have taken shape in the prison system. Some things need to be further corrected. The plan was evaluated by the DG EPI itself and consultations were held with the security partners. Of course, the comments made by the partner services and the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terror attacks were taken into account when drawing up the plan 2.0. Like the 2015 plan, the 2.0 plan will be made public and will thus also be made available to Parliament. There are few differences between the Dutch and the French-speaking parts of the country. The Flemish and French-speaking Community have organized their offer of assistance differently and this has an impact on the way DG EPI and the Communities work together. It is not the case that there are specific problems on either side of the language border.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u68	Minister, that is a clear answer. Thanks for that. I look forward to the Action Plan 2.0 and to the date on which it is made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic099x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament 2894 by Mrs Depraetere will be converted into a written question.
