ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u1	Madam Secretary, thank you for making time for our committee. I have to start apologizing. My written question was tabled as an oral question because of a small communication error with our group secretariat. I cannot therefore blame you if you would give me your answer in writing. I am free to correct that error and not take up too much of your time by referring to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u2	Mrs Depoorter had to be present on another committee, but Mrs Gijbels will be able to speak on behalf of the N-VA Group. Now Mr Bertels has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u3	Mr President, my questions date back a while. So I'll summarize them. The first question concerned the transitional period for the introduction of the electronic regulation. This period expired on 31 January 2020. At that time, in a circular of the RIZIV it was stated that if no electronic but a paper prescription was drawn up, the patient was no longer "repayed." However, there were still a lot of doctors who used the paper prescription, for whatever reason, because they still had many paper regulations on surplus or because it was easier. In February it was certainly still the case that patients received a paper prescription from the doctor and offered themselves to the pharmacist. They then had to pay the full pot before applying for the refund at the mutuality via an additional, separate form. The letter from the RIZIV even said that they would not receive a refund. I assume that this has been remediated in the meantime and that the patients have not been and have not been the victims, that the transition period has ended and that the electronic prescription has been introduced smoothly, especially for those who need it, for doctors, pharmacists and certainly also for patients. The second question is a little COVID-19-related. The electronic prescription could also be used because the pharmacists would then have access to the relevant database. For example, the patients could take medication without physically visiting the doctor for a new prescription to obtain that medication. The pharmacists could look into their database in which everything is archived, so the patient should not get an extra prescription from the doctor. I hope that this has also been resolved, except in certain cases where proof of the electronic regulation did not have to be submitted on paper every time. In this way, a number of medical visits can be avoided. This is a simplification for patients and for pharmacists, and that will benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u4	Madam Minister, my colleague Bertels summarized the questions I wanted to ask you. So I will not take more time and look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add something practical. The electronic regulations still needed paper evidence, but the corona crisis helped us to do so. After all, we were allowed to send the code generated by the computer program by SMS to the patients or directly to the pharmacist. So patients could go straight to the pharmacist and they shouldn't come visit us anymore. However, the pharmacists tell me that it is still not possible via the identity card, whereas it was actually intended to be able to look directly into the Crossroads bank to see what was effectively prescribed for the patient. The computer program also allows us to know which regulations have been or have not been taken from the patient. However, the program still contains many bugs, so we cannot trust the information yet. That would be very useful. As far as the paper regulations are concerned, a general practitioner who visits his home does not necessarily carry a printer, which makes it quite complicated. Even if one is on watch and comes home to a patient of which one does not have all the data, it is not easy to generate an electronic prescription. For example, there must be a good internet connection. That creates quite a few practical problems. With me, one in ten regulations is still on paper. The internet can just lie flat, the eHealth program is sometimes slightly flat, so blank paper rules have to be printed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u6	Does one of the groups that did not ask a question wish to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u7	Madam Secretary, most of the questions have already been asked by colleagues. What exactly is the problem with the old models of regulations that are still being submitted? Are they still frequently submitted and are there solutions in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u8	Madam Secretary, I don't know how much time I have to give you to answer. Not 14 minutes anyway, five minutes should suffice, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u9	Yes, because the first question dates back to January, Mr President. On Monday 3 February, the Insurance Committee confirmed that patients could be both administratively and financially affected by a situation where old regulations are still being used. The Insurance Committee therefore also called on the prescribers to prescribe electronically in the first place, because it had already been adapted, and to use the new model in exceptional writing. There was some confusion in the caregivers about that. We therefore thank them for the effort we have called for. An extension of the transitional period was not considered feasible because the new and old models would then exist side by side. It was therefore requested to apply the rule in force since 1 February. For old regulations still offered in the pharmacy, the Insurance Committee asked for pragmatism. The transitional period has seen no problems afterwards: we have received no complaints about people who have not been reimbursed and that is all. We have not had any complaints at all. There was a laugh with the tolerance policy. But what was asked was followed. The requirement to prescribe electronically applies to prescriptions written by a doctor, dentist or midwife in an outpatient setting, either in the office or during a hospital or outpatient consultation, or in other places such as duty stations, etc. This applies to medicines prescribed on a brand name, in a common name or in the form of a master's preparation, regardless of whether the health care insurance reimburses the medicine or not. It is still possible to prescribe in outpatients on paper in certain exceptional situations, in patients who are 64 years of age on 1 January, if the prescription is written outside the office (e.g. in the patient's home or in a nursing home), regardless of the age of the prescriber, and always in cases of force majeure. A back-up protocol for electronic prescribing to the patient at an outpatient is available. It also provides for the conditions and situations in which the paper prescription remains allowed: in cases of force majeure, where the needs of urgent medical assistance are indisputable; in cases where the prescriber is foreign and does not have a NISS number or a BIS number; in cases where the foreign patient does not have a NISS number or a BIS number; in cases where the newborn is waiting for his number. For medication during the Coronavirus crisis, as Ms. Merckx said, having electronic prescription helped a lot. The number of electronic prescriptions has increased significantly. It's supposed to disappear the paper evidence. I said this when the measure was introduced, on the basis of an opinion. This is done further, including by removing the bugs from the system. I'll check the timing of that, but I thought it was familiar. Despite the fact that the electronic regulations were widely used during the corona crisis, there were little or no problems with them. In the meantime, there has also been a great deal of work on supporting the eHealth platform: the number of incidents has since been greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u10	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was almost perfect within the five-minute speaking time. As a reminder, one can have a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u11	Madam Minister, I assume that I will receive a written answer to my questions about statistics. I am also pleased that you have pursued a policy of tolerance and that it has worked, which is demonstrated by the fact that little or no complaints have been received.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u12	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that health insurance operators have drawn up a scheme so that the patient is not affected. That is a good thing. I am glad to hear that the patient was not confronted with a non-refund and that the tolerance policy worked. I hope that no more paper regulations will be used now, Madam Secretary? The transitional period has lasted long enough. With regard to the eHealth platform, I assume that the bugs and problems in the software program of the pharmacists have been completely eliminated and that they can read the electronic prescription virtually flawlessly, which is in favour of both the patient and the pharmacist. If there's any paperwork left, I hope that their disappearance will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you. Your answers were clear and brought the appeasement we hoped for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u14	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is really important that there are still exceptions. At times it is not possible to deliver an electronic prescription, as you have said. Sometimes, for example, we take care of patients who do not have an INSZ number, while they also have a right to care. You did not reply to the idea of looking directly through the patient's identity card at which prescription was issued. By when do you think that's possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u15	There was nothing in the question. I will examine the timing, whether it is a postponement, whether it has been revised or whether it has to do with the other work, and I will provide the overview to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u16	I would also like a written reply on the percentages of electronic regulations. I assume you've requested it for the last few months. I'm sure that interests everyone on the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u17	New European regulations will make it mandatory during the year to validate implants and implantable materials through the so-called "recognized bodies', bodies accredited to monitor and guarantee the quality of implantable materials. A good thing that we, as a party, support. Scientific associations, professional associations and universities consider that quality and traceability are important, but they also express a number of concerns. There is a fear that the time span will be too short to guide the existing implant systems through this validation procedure, which could lead to a shortage of implants. In addition, it is not illogical that these additional conditions will put the implant company at a cost; costs, which will be recovered from the patient. Most implant systems that have been in use for a long time have also proven their worth through scientific research and publications. In addition, when the smallest osteosynthesis screw has to be registered using a unique code, the notification system runs the risk of becoming difficult to work. When each screw has to be packed separately, there is a risk that the system will become even more expensive. Does the same concern also exist in other EU countries? Have you discussed this issue with your fellow Members from the European Commission? What came out of that conversation? Are you prepared to plead for postponement in this matter, in the interests of continuity of care in hospitals? What alternative piste for the smaller tools, such as osteosynthesis screws and pins........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u18	Madam Minister, this question dates back to 13 January, but the health crisis has, of course, put a stop to dealing with it. However, I am particularly interested in the state of play of this European directive, as the deadline was in principle 26 May 2020. Madam Secretary, what is the status of this dossier? Has there been a delay? If that were the case, it should certainly not be at the expense of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u19	Mrs Sneppe had a question on the same subject, but she is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u20	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, given the context, my question may no longer be relevant, but it was on March 10. It deals with the traceability of implants. At the time, an investigation conducted by Le Soir, Knack and De Tijd revealed that more than 4,000 incidents involving medical implants had been reported in less than five years. This had not failed to lead to a major questioning. There is now a royal decree under which the Council of Ministers has committed itself to implementing a central record of traceability of implantable medical devices. Minister, since my question was tabled, a lot of answers have been provided, but I still wanted to question you because there are many differences between medical devices and drugs. Which implantable medical devices are affected by these mandatory notifications? What if caregivers do not comply with these obligations? What are the terms and conditions for identification? What progress has been made under the previous legislature and what progress is envisaged to ensure greater patient safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u21	Minister, you have five minutes to answer the questions you have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u22	Mr President, it will not be that long. There is indeed a concern. It is correct that the low number of notified bodies, the so-called notified bodies, certified under the new European Regulation, the Medical Device Regulation, was a problem. This was followed closely by the FAGG. The issue was also discussed at the meetings of the European Health Ministers, the EPSCO and by me. Meanwhile, during the corona crisis, the entry into force of the Medical Device Regulation was postponed by a year, giving us some breathing space. That gives us until May 2021. The European Commissioner has called us and informed us individually that she had no choice but to postpone the regulation for a year. Most implants belong to risk classes 2B and 3. The transitional period until May 2024 for the renewal of the CE certificate therefore applies. More time has therefore been allocated for this too. In the meantime, most notified bodies have submitted a request for designation. A large majority of them have already been audited by national authorities. They will soon also obtain certification. For 14 of them, that is already the case. That's not enough. We will indeed need them all. The situation should normalise in the course of 2020 and 2021. If, as a result of a shortage of implants, public health problems were to arise, national derogations under the European Regulation would still be possible. So that's the stick behind the door. The central traceability register must be supplemented by ten categories of implants: stent, neurostimulator, cochlear implant, hydrocephalic shunt, orthopaedic implant, cosmetic or reconstructive implant falling within the scope of Directive 93/42/EEC on medical devices or the Regulation, electrodes and biosensors, mechanical cardiac implants, electronic and electrical cardiac implants and ophthalmological implants. The Royal Decree establishing this obligation implements an article of the Act of 15 December 2013 on medical devices. Any infringements of this article shall be punished as provided for in the law. The identification of persons is, in principle, carried out by the attending physician. There is also a strict emergency procedure under which the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) can itself identify the persons concerned. Finally, the opinion of the Data Protection Authority was sought and followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u23	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that there will be some breathing space, but at some point it will come. I hope that both the workability and affordability of these implants will be properly monitored, so that this will not be to the detriment of patients. I hope that there will also be sufficient consultation on this, that it will not be about the smallest osteosynthesis screw in guaranteeing traceability.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the signals we received from the sector at the beginning of this year were mainly about the limited number of bodies, the notified bodies to which you referred. However, I am reassured when you say that it has been postponed for a year and that you are aware of it and are taking action. I'd like to come back to something completely different, but it's also about implants. I submitted a written question on 8 April on silicone breast implants and possible health risks. Is it possible to get an answer to that question before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would just like to reiterate the importance of this transparency for the safety of all patients. We remember the various scandals which have taken place and which fortunately did not hit Belgium too strongly, but there is security for all. I am therefore pleased to see that positive progress is under way and that it will increase the confidence of patients in their implants. I hope that we will continue on this path in the future by further strengthening quality controls and transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u26	Mr President, Minister, this question has been pending for several months. My question is about prostate cancer, the number of which fell by an average of 3.5 % between 2004 and 2014, while there is an increase of 4.7 % from 2014. The figures of the Cancer Register Foundation published in the press in January speak volumes and should encourage critical thinking. Until five years ago, the PSA test, which detects prostate cancer, was repaid for all over 50 people. Since 2014, there has been a refund for patients at risk, for example when a brother or father has already had prostate cancer, as the PSA test also involves risks, such as incontinence and/or impotence and there was a problem of overconsumption. Moreover, the cancer can also evolve very slowly, so that treatment is not always necessary. Nowadays, it is still not known whether the PSA test's balance sheet is more positive or rather negative. Those concerned now choose whether or not they want to be screened. In this context, the Knowledge Centre developed an important tool for the general practitioners, in which the doctor assists the patient in the individual decision to screen or not. The Belgian association for Urology advocates a refund of the test for all 50+. Now they think too many patients are not reached. Reference is also made to a European study, which shows that there is a clear profit in survival in the use of the test. They also point to the potential gains it will generate for our health care. Madam Minister, as a result of this communication, you expressed your willingness to take into account the concerns of the urologists about the need to review the prior advice of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre. Have you asked for and/or received another opinion from the Knowledge Centre regarding the desirability of the overall reimbursement of the PSA test? Have there been any contacts with the communities? Prevention is a competence of the communities. Has an evaluation been made of the KCE tool made available to the general practitioners? If so, what are the findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u27	Mrs. Depoorter is apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u28	Mr President, Minister, screening of prostate cancer through the PSA test is the subject of controversy. On the population level, screening of prostate cancer through that test is not recommended. It leads to overdiagnosis and overtreatment, to a much higher extent than, for example, the detection of breast cancer through mammography in women. In the case of mammography detection, there is also some overdiagnosis, but the benefits outweigh the disadvantages, including population. This is not the case for prostate cancer. The PSA test is very little specific. This means that an increased PSA value can be caused by many reasons, such as benign prostate enlargement or prostate inflammation, and not just by cancer. On the other hand, many prostate cancers are not aggressive. The patient dies on average with prostate cancer rather than prostate cancer. At the age of 80, 40% to 50% of men at biopsy have malignant cells in their prostate. Early detection of prostate cancer therefore leads to many unnecessary studies at population level, such as biopsies, but also operations and prostatectomys that can significantly affect the quality of life of the men concerned. This may include impotence and incontinence. In 2017, the KCE developed a tool to help general practitioners conduct the discussion with patients. The patient who nevertheless decides to be screened must pay himself 11 euros, because the test will no longer be refunded. Therefore, the PSA test has not been repaid for a number of years. How do you evaluate that policy? A lot of people are gonna take the test, even though it's not gonna be paid back? Do you have an estimate of the number? What is your view on the call of urologists to repay the test?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u29	Mr President, there is a need for some nuance with regard to the figures of the Cancer Register. Indeed, the incidence of prostate cancer increased slightly between 2014 and 2017. It is believed that the ageing population has been involved. However, between 2004 and 2017, it decreased by 21,8%. The five-year relative survival for all prostate cancers together is 95% and is identical for the different periods - 2004 to 2008, 2009 to 2012, 2013 to 2014 and 2013 to 2017. Therefore, it is actually not scientifically justified to claim that stopping the reimbursement of PSA tests for non-risk groups has led to an increase in prostate cancer incidence. There is still uncertainty about the advantages and disadvantages of prostate cancer screening by PSA. On 1,000 men who opt for prostate cancer screening, we can probably avoid 2 deaths within 15 years because the diagnosis is not made at a metastatic stage. On the other hand, systematic screening of all over fifty small, early-stage but non-aggressive prostate cancers is used. The consequences of this are sometimes drastic. Think of possible complications such as incontinence and impotence. This can affect the quality of life of these relatively young men, I'm talking about 50s, but there are still younger men who have a very strong influence. PSA levels may be increased for several reasons, including inflammation or benign swelling. There would also be a possible connection with fervent cyclists. In people who die at an older age, we also see more often that they die with prostate cancer than with prostate cancer. To date, prostate cancer screening has been seen as a strictly individual choice, and it is important for citizens to be well informed by a decision-making tool that allows doctors to inform their patients about the advantages and disadvantages of screening, as indicated in the 2014 Knowledge Centre Report. There are also evolutions in scientific research. The Belgian Association of Urologists and the European Association of Urology ask the question whether and how to screen: within what age limits, with what follow-up or combined test schedule, via a PSA test, what with rectal toucher, what with ultrasound, MRI, etc., and what aspects could give rise to the intervention of health insurance. There is still no consensus among scientists on this. Recently, there was a meta-analysis that indicated that in a sensitivity analysis of screening for PSA there is an effect on prostate-specific mortality, but no effect on overall mortality. Apparently, this data is viewed from a broader perspective and does not even appear to be prostate-specific mortality. In this context of different conclusions, it seems to me appropriate that the KCE, following its 2014 and 2009 reports, should make a full update on this subject, as this is changing. Prevention falls within the competence of the Länder. It is always said that every euro that goes to prevention earns or saves four euros federally. The question is whether this really is the case, but I think we should look at the type of prevention we are talking about here. The desirability or not of a population survey for a particular population group is not my competence. The adjustment of the reimbursement of the diagnostic screening method of the PSA test is not relevant if this cannot be done within a broader vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. If I understood correctly, the news came that you would respond to the request of the Belgian Urology Association a little too soon. In the absence of a scientific consensus, there are no changes. I think, together with you, that an update of the 2014 report of the KCE is needed, given the evolution and the evolving insights. Madam Secretary, did you say there's an update on the report? Or is it planned and not yet in progress? Can you clarify that? I didn't get that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u31	Madam Secretary, you are right, there is no scientific consensus on that screening. We know that screening produces a lot of operations, and so we must remain critical if we are to be called on from a certain angle to do this kind of prevention. Moreover, many other preventive measures are effectively possible, which have very strong evidence of mortality, both specific and general.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u32	Mr Bertels, the Knowledge Centre sets out a calendar for the planned investigations. I have a small right of injugation, but for every new case I put in between, and there have been some with the reforms, something else is being postponed. I have to check whether it is already on the calendar or when it can be looked at.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u33	Madam Minister, in Belgium, about 700,000 people suffer from a rare disease. However, we note that investment in research and development is particularly targeted at the most common diseases in the population. Fortunately, since 2000, industries have had European regulations to encourage them to invest in innovations for patients with rare diseases. The public authorities compensate for the risks they face in the face of a potentially lower return on investment. However, in a study by Professor Tubeuf of UCLouvain, it appears that the median cost per patient per year, in 2016, for an orphan drug, was five times higher than for a non-orphan drug, while the average development costs were doubled. For example, the maximum price for treatment was reached for spinal amyotrophy. It is interesting to note that the treatment was given to the Pia baby thanks to the generosity of the public and not to social security. This case questions the viability and responsibility of our health care system. However, a recent study estimates that in 2013, direct clinical costs would be lower for orphan drugs. This would be explained by the fact that the number of patients included in the study would be lower, that the drugs do not have comparator treatment and are therefore not eligible for randomized trials and, finally, that the research at its non-clinical stage is mainly carried out by academic researchers and by patient associations and other not-for-profit entities. Minister, in the face of this financial inaccessibility of orphan drugs, do you consider it necessary to take steps to make pharmaceutical companies more transparent on development costs and ultimately on the cost to be borne by social security on the one hand, and patients on the other? If so, what are you considering? What are the returns on the effectiveness of the BeNeLuxA alliance (Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria) which would allow for joint negotiations and more accessible tariffs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u34	Mrs Tillieux, the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products (CRM) evaluates the value of a medicinal product on the basis of five criteria:- absolute and relative therapeutic value; - the price of the specialty and the proposed reimbursement base; - the interest of the medicinal product in medical practice according to therapeutic and societal needs; - the budgetary impact; - the relationship between the costs of health insurance and the therapeutic values of the product. This evaluation by the CRM is carried out in parallel with the pricing of the drug - the transparency of the development costs of which is a major element - by decision of the Minister of Economy. Indeed, the CRM within the SPF Economy, where the various stakeholders are represented, is responsible for evaluating the price demands of a drug and gives an opinion to my colleague on this matter. During the previous legislature, we worked intensively to ask pharmaceutical companies for greater transparency about the costs of developing and producing drugs. For further information, please contact the relevant Minister. With regard to BeNeLuxA's work, the project currently includes the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria, Ireland and Belgium. His work goes well beyond the joint negotiations for reimbursement. In this way, we work closely together in the areas of health technology assessment and data and information exchange. BeNeLuxA is also investing - in collaboration with other countries - in the field of prospective analysis. To date, several joint evaluations have been carried out in this framework. For example, several favourable decisions were taken in consultation with the Netherlands on the reimbursement of orphan medicinal products. Joint negotiations require a great deal of time and work on the part of INAMI. We continue to encourage pharmaceutical companies to join the joint negotiations in order to facilitate patients' access to their medicines. Over the course of this legislature, more than 25 orphan drugs were recovered. It is true that the associations had called me in, but you know that I have always been interested in the problem of orphan diseases. A great deal of work has been done and cooperation has been established within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u35	Minister, thank you for the answers. I know that part of the competence lies with the Economy, in terms of price fixing. Nevertheless, we must organize ourselves to allow access to these orphan medicines. Patients already have to bear the weight, the burden of the disease and, financially, the cost of their treatment. They cannot do so under the current circumstances. That is completely unacceptable. That's why we really need to unite. One of the solutions lies in joint negotiation. You tried to do it. You add Ireland to the country package. It is a solution to force joint negotiations with pharmaceutical companies and to improve the accessibility of medicines to orphan diseases and their options, and to the difficulty of research. Madam Minister, thank you for continuing to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u36	Question No 55002490C by Mrs Eliane Tillieux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u37	Mrs Farih and Mrs Jiroflée are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u38	Mr President, Minister, this question seems to come from a different era, but just before the corona crisis broke out, a study by the Socialist Mutualities showed that only 53.2% of those living at home were vaccinated against the flu before last winter. The Socialist Mutualities made a number of suggestions to boost that percentage during the coming flu season, such as by automatically sending an electronic prescription to the pharmacist by general practitioners, so that you do not have to visit the general practitioner twice. Another suggestion was to amend the co-ordinated law on the exercise of health care professions so that pharmacists could put the flu syringe in place. In the meantime, actuality has caught up with us. I submitted a written question on 3 June. I know you can't answer them right now, but I'd still like to bring them in. The next winter might be the opposite, namely that we would easily get those 75% of home-living 65-plussers who want to be vaccinated. The question is, are we ready for that? Is there anything we can do about the suggestion of the Socialist Mutualities? Are we prepared for the reverse effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Creemers, I still think this is a topical question. With the advice of the Supreme Court that I asked for a few months ago, we believe that more people will want to take a flu vaccine for seasonal flu because the corona crisis makes people better aware of the importance of vaccination. The availability and distribution of flu vaccines is monitored by the Federal Agency for Medicines and the companies concerned and all wholesalers/distributors transmit their data weekly. The number of vaccines available for the 2019-2020 season was similar to that of previous years. As in previous years, there was no shortage, but we were told that there were problems with the distribution of pharmacists. The FAGG was informed that one of the three companies that normally market medicines to us was able to deliver less flu vaccines for the 2019-2020 season. The survey carried out by the firms and an in-depth assessment of the stocks by the FAGG experts showed that the deficit could be compensated by the other firms and that the total planned quantity of vaccines was in line with that of the previous years. So we didn't have to worry about the patients. The FAGG communicated on its website in July 2019. There were enough flu vaccines, but they were not distributed to all pharmacies as needed. The pharmacists therefore had to place a pre-order, which meant that some had a surplus and others did not. Moreover, pharmacies ordering vaccines from CSF were not delivered at 100%, but only at 70% and had to order vaccines from the other two companies. They are collegial in that and help each other in such situations to help the patients. Foreign imports were not discussed in 2019-2020, as there were sufficient vaccines available. As far as the administration of flu vaccines by pharmacists is concerned, advice is now available from the two Medical Academics. This should be further discussed in the consultation between doctors and pharmacists in the consultation bodies. I have asked the Supreme Court of Doctors-Specialists and GPs to take a position on this too. I recommended to the Council that, in their view, the associations of pharmacists and pharmacy departments should also be involved, so that all parties concerned have a say in the position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée has also arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u41	I will give Mrs Jiroflée the floor after you have replicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer to my question. Together with the pharmacists and the doctors-specialists, it will be examined whether more intensive cooperation with the pharmacists is possible in the next season. The Socialist Mutualities cited this as one of the big thresholds, so very few people have been vaccinated. If vaccination becomes even more topical in the next season, which means more people are being vaccinated, then I think we should make it as easy as possible for the patient. If this can be done through the pharmacists, then I think that is a good thing. Without prejudging the facts, it is a good thing that all interested parties are consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u43	Mrs Jiroflée, I give you the floor, in principle, for a reply, but you may have another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I apologize, I was in a hurry. I have heard half of Mrs Creemers' question and I had similar questions. Madam Minister, I heard you say that there are already two advices from the pharmacists (...) We call for vaccines to be put through the home chemists, with the aim of getting as many people vaccinated as possible by the next flu season. In that sense, I fully agree with Mrs Creemers. At least we will ask a follow-up question about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u45	Minister, literacy refers to an individual's ability to understand and assimilate health information so that he or she can then make appropriate choices to maintain or improve his or her health or quality of life. According to my information, between 30% and 45% of Belgians would find it difficult to interact properly with healthcare professionals (whether doctors, pharmacists or nurses), to understand how and why a disease is occurring, to discuss with professionals the measures to be taken, to understand the package leaflets or to follow their treatment properly. It turns out that many countries have implemented action plans to improve this health literacy among their populations. In Belgium, on the contrary, we do not at present have such an action plan to deal with this public health problem in a comprehensive way. It is our responsibility that, fortunately, the KCE has been asked to analyse some of these foreign action plans in order to draw lessons from them with a view to a possible plan at Belgian level. Therefore, minister, could you let me know if this initiative comes from your services? If so, what is the deadline for the KCE to submit its report? Finally, while waiting for it, can you tell us whether there are already, if only partial, instruments of analysis at the level of the Public Health FPS on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u46	Mrs Rohonyi, in Belgium, the level of health literacy is measured through a health survey. In 2018, the European Health Literacy Survey was included in the health survey. This is a short questionnaire formulated in general terms and which provides an estimate of the health literacy of the population. The survey shows that in our country, 66 per cent of the population aged 15 and over have a sufficient level of health literacy, but 27.8 per cent have a limited level and 5.6 per cent have an insufficient level. The results show that long-term patients, older or less educated people have a lower level of health literacy compared to the general population. It is therefore important to take into account the low level of these groups and to take measures that will enable them to cope with a health system that is becoming more complex. During the previous legislature, health policy focused on the promotion of literacy, providing, among other things, for patient access to his files or the publication on the AFMPS website of understandable information on medicines. You're asking me to draw up a plan. However, our policy already included one. Then you want to know when the literacy study will be available. It has been completed and now available on the KCE website since 9 January. As you have not found it, I will tell you the title: "KCE Reports 322B – Health literacy: what lessons can be learned from the experiences of other countries?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that action has been taken and that is essential. The figures you have presented clearly demonstrate the diversity of profiles that find it difficult to understand instructions and follow treatments when faced with a medical context. You've talked about the elderly and others who are less educated. This demonstrates the extent to which information should be made available to them. I hear that initiatives have been taken, in particular via websites. Nevertheless, we must go further. To that end, doctors in the field should be made aware of the need. Thus, Quebec has developed the technique of teach back, which consists of having its interlocutor repeat what he has heard, in order to verify whether the explanation has been understood. It is also possible to develop pictograms in pharmacies so that clients understand how to take their medication. For my part, I would like to insist on the dissemination outside of the information available on the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, several reports and press articles published before the health crisis have reported an increase in measles cases, particularly in France, where no fewer than 5,000 cases were recorded during 2019. In Belgium, the statistics for Sciensano show 405 cases of measles recorded in 2019, according to the following breakdown: 21% in Flanders, 46% in Wallonia and 33% in Brussels. According to some reports, Albania, the Czech Republic, Greece and the United Kingdom have lost their status as countries that eradicated measles in 2019. In September of last year, there was a concentration of cases in Romania, France and Poland. This worrying situation prompted the French Minister of Public Health to make measles vaccination compulsory in January 2018, which is not yet the case in our country. However, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), adequate protection of the population and non-transmission of the virus require at least 95 per cent of the population to be vaccinated, knowing that measles vaccine is administered in two times, around the twelfth month and between 11 and 12 years of age. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the Supreme Council of Health has recommended changing the age at which the second dose of vaccine is to be administered and increasing it to 7-9 years. The proximity of our country to France must, in my view, encourage us to be cautious. Madam Minister, is this increase in measles cases in Europe taken seriously by our country, despite the fact that the number of cases in Belgium remains quite marginal? If so, what measures have been taken or will be taken? Is a study envisaged to make vaccination against this disease compulsory? What is the status of the work of the Committee for the Elimination of Measles and Rubella?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, it is true that Sciensano closely follows the situation and has published interim analyses, in collaboration with the Regions. Preventive vaccination programmes are the responsibility of the federated entities, except where vaccination is made compulsory as a national prophylactic measure. So far, this is only the case with polio. Many awareness-raising activities on measles have been carried out by the Regions. There is communication to the public and doctors through press releases, public websites (e.g. vaccination-info.be) and general medical associations. Efforts have also been made to improve the immunization coverage of the adult population. For example, vaccination is systematically offered to asylum seekers upon entry if they do not have evidence of previous vaccination. The vaccination coverage for the first dose of this 12-month measles-rubella vaccine is 95% for Belgium, which is above the 95% threshold defined by the WHO. There is no consensus among international experts that an obligation is the best tool to improve immunization coverage. We will continue to monitor the results of countries such as France and Italy. As for the second dose, the coverage is 85 per cent according to the first estimates, which is less than 95 per cent. New figures are expected. It is currently believed that there is no need for a study to make measles vaccination mandatory. I would also like to refer to opinion No. 64 of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics on the ethical aspect of the obligation to vaccinate: "Everything depends on the vaccine, the disease and the situation. It is ethically unacceptable for a parent to deprive his or her child of an effective vaccine against a serious and preventable disease, such as poliomyelitis or tetanus. On the other hand, it is ethically acceptable for a parent to refuse vaccination of his or her child when the risk ratio of vaccination to illness is not scientifically relevant. Parents must always make their decision in the interests of their child. It is not acceptable, legally and ethically, for them to make decisions that are manifestly detrimental to their child." One of the Committee's findings is that, in general – and this is not a surprise – the coverage rate of compulsory vaccines is higher than that of optional vaccines, although this does not mean that compulsory vaccination programmes are more effective than others. This shows that some of the highest levels of coverage in Europe are achieved through voluntary vaccination programmes. From a pragmatic point of view, compulsory vaccination does not necessarily lead to better results. Mandatory vaccination programmes may result in less follow-up (covering) of optional vaccines (e.g. in France). When vaccination is a condition for admission to school, some parents may have their child vaccinated before school entry and not at the recommended age. The legitimacy of sanctions in the event of non-vaccination can also be questioned. Should fines be imposed or school admission prohibited? Are these measures not disproportionate? Even if a legal obligation is imposed with the best intentions, it can lead to mistrust or a hostile attitude towards the authorities in a part of the population. From an ethical point of view, a legal obligation also runs counter to the value of self-determination and autonomy, values held in high esteem in our society. However, in particular circumstances, an obligation may be ethically justified if it is the only possibility to safeguard the public interest or that of vulnerable persons. This discussion is therefore not so simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u50	Before giving the floor to Mrs Rohonyi, I would like to remind you that the time allowed for an oral question is two minutes for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u51	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I never implied that the problem would be solved in a simple way. On the contrary, I am aware of its complexity. Making this vaccine compulsory would involve sanctions, but the question is whether that is what will help to address this public health problem. At the same time, it is important to increase prevention, especially among adults. The first dose of vaccine is given to young children, with 95 per cent coverage. The problem is vaccination coverage for the second dose, which is only 85%. As a result, cases of measles are recorded in older age groups beyond the age of 14, and this is particularly worrying. Let us therefore continue our efforts with regard to prevention. I have to go back to your argument that the responsibility for preventive vaccination lies with the federated entities. This is true except that Belgium is still required to provide a single vaccination action plan. This is a commitment that our country has made to WHO for the elimination of measles and rubella. I therefore believe that it is important to be able to initiate and continue to consult with the federated entities on this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u52	Minister, INAMI has recently chosen to use the number of certificates of care to determine which physicians will retain the right to receive benefits in order to qualify for their supplementary pension. However, not all doctors issue certificates of care. This is particularly the case for doctors who work at the NEB or in a school medicine centre, as they are free prevention services. Although screening work in preventive medicine may result in a certificate of care, the certificate is issued by the attending physician or by a second specialist. Unfortunately, INAMI's message on this subject is quite clear and is tantamount to encouraging doctors to produce certificates of care, failing which they will not be able to receive a supplementary pension. This message was confirmed by the Supreme Council of Health in a 2018 note, which stated that due to the absence of health certificates, school medicine and ONE consultations were not part of the health and disability insurance scheme. It is quite difficult to require a certificate of care from this type of physician, since the law requires free school medical inspections and ONE consultations. So how do you intend to remedy this inequality? Have you started a discussion with INAMI on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u53	Ms. Tillieux had a question to ask about preventive medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u54	Mr President, my question is with that of my colleague. A doctor who currently works at the ONE or in a school medicine centre does not issue a certificate of care as these services are free of charge. Screening work carried out in the context of preventive medicine may lead to a certificate, but it will be issued by a general practitioner or specialist. School medicine and ONE consultations therefore do not fall within the scope of sickness and disability insurance. The Supreme Council of Health also confirmed this in an internal note to physicians in 2018. Since the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 19 September 2019, INAMI has therefore relied on the number of certificates of care issued to grant medical practitioners under contract social benefits with a view to establishing a supplementary pension. In order to open up the right to the above-mentioned benefits, the doctor must now provide proof of a minimum professional activity. The activity threshold is expressed as an amount reimbursed to the patient by health care insurance. This threshold is retroactive and takes into account benefits provided in the second year prior to the year in which the claim for benefits is made. Minister, what is the purpose of the amendments made by this Royal Order? Do you not think that this creates discrimination between so-called curative medicine and preventive medicine, whose exercise no longer gives access to these social benefits? Is there a risk of discouraging young doctors from moving towards pre-emptive medicine that is already in short supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u55	Mrs. H annoyance, Mrs. Tillieux, your questions are based on incorrect data. The social benefit scheme, called "social status", was introduced to encourage providers to accede to tariff agreements and agreements. The so-called additional quotient is used as compensation for providers to meet conventional rates, so as not to charge patients supplements. Social status gives access to a supplementary pension or guaranteed income. It is therefore entirely legitimate to link the granting of this social status to a threshold of activity in federal health care. During this Parliament, I have provided additional opportunities to demonstrate active collaboration in the delivery of federal health care insurance for the benefit of patients, at a regulated rate without a supplement. The Royal Decree of 6 March 2007 establishing a benefit plan for certain physicians contains an activity threshold starting with the 2017 application year. It was first expressed as a minimum amount of reimbursement of the benefits included in the nomenclature of health benefits compatible with compulsory health care insurance (Article 1, § 4). However, the threshold may also be reached in other ways. The decree also stipulates that doctors who, during the reference year, have actually dispensed benefits which are covered by compulsory insurance and without them being included in the individual attestable benefits registered, shall satisfy the activity threshold by proof of such benefit at an average of 13 hours per week during the reference year. This is particularly true of doctors who are interested in clinical activity in the INAMI-funded transfusion centres and federal centres - functional rehabilitation. Doctors who in the reference year have actually collaborated with compulsory insurance for benefits in order to perform clinical tasks constituting a contribution to the performance of compulsory insurance, but without it being included in the individually certified benefits registered, or without providing benefits themselves, also meet the activity threshold by proof of this benefit at an average of thirteen hours per week. In particular, this refers to physicians explicitly interested in clinical activity, particularly in hospital settings, but in a non-limitative manner, hospital hygienists, chief physicians, heads of department and equivalents, excluding physicians active in a primarily administrative function, such as management and administration. These alternative thresholds were introduced by the Royal Decree of 19 September 2019, also from 1 January 2017. They were precisely expressed in response to the concern that an activity threshold only expressed as individually certified benefits would be too restrictive. These alternative thresholds have not been formulated lightly but are the result of a detailed analysis carried out in consultation with INAMI and the National Medical Mutualist Commission. From the 2017 application year, physicians who did not meet the activity threshold expressed as minimum amounts of reimbursement of benefits could apply to have their work situation assimilated to that of doctors who had reached the threshold. On the basis of just over 800 applications submitted at that time, the National Medical Mutualist Commission issued an opinion on the applications to be assimilated. This opinion led to the Royal Decree of 19 September 2019. In this opinion, preventive medicine has in principle been excluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. They are quite technical and, in my opinion, call for another analysis. I do not hear at all from you that there is discrimination against doctors of preventive medicine. There may have been some inaccuracies about how to calculate it. I note that there is a social benefit for doctors who would be contracted, with different threshold calculations. I'll have to check that arrest. However, preventive medicine is not included in the device. Whether it's voluntary or not, I think it's demeaning for doctors who practice preventive medicine. It will be even more complicated to make this profession attractive to younger people, when there is already a huge shortage of physicians, including ONE consultations and health promotion services. One cannot afford to still have differences in status and such discrimination when it remains the same practice of medicine, unless you imagine that there are two classes of medicine. If that's the case, it's a pretty serious problem. Prevention is a very important aspect and it will have to be made much more attractive in the future. This is not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u57	As my colleague has said, the answer is quite technical and requires a detailed examination of the content. I note, Madam Minister, that the Royal Order of September 19, 2019 excludes the exercise of preventive medicine. That's what you said. If this is not the case, we welcome it, but it is true that this discrimination cannot be admitted in the practice of medicine, especially when we know that the ONE consultations or health promotion services at school already lack doctors. Perhaps a phenomenon that makes it more attractive should be introduced. We need it a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament 55002626C by Mrs Sneppe will be converted into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u59	Madam Minister, my question was put a while ago. In that question I would like to put a few things that Jan De Maeseneer put forward in an opinion piece on 9 January 2020, with you. It goes without saying that, given the resistance to antibiotics, we absolutely need to focus on the development of new antibiotics. At the same time, we note that companies are investing less and less in this. That's why Jan De Maeseneer made a number of proposals. I suppose you've thought about that yourself. Firstly, what solutions do you see to get out of the stalemate and boost the development of new antibiotics? Jan De Maeseneer proposes what has already been put forward a few times in the discussions on the COOVID-19 vaccine, namely to separate research and development costs from production and sales. For him there should be a public invitation to tender to finance the development of a new antibiotic. What's your opinion on that? We see the problem big enough to create an independent working group for it. Are you willing to do that? Has there been any consultations at international level? After all, it is certainly not a problem that occurs only with us. International consultation on this is therefore certainly necessary. If that hasn't happened yet, would you like to initiate that consultation? I read yesterday that a lot less antibiotics have been used in recent months, which does not mean that we should certainly look at the problem in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u60	Madam Minister, a worrying WTO report on the development of new antibiotics was published a while ago. After all, the pharmaceutical industry does little research on new antibiotics. As a result of the COOVID crisis, we were all aware that our region is too dependent on the production of existing antibiotics abroad. If international firms aren't looking for new antibiotics, how are we going to deal with them? At the moment only antibiotics are being developed for mainly gram-negative bacteria, the main resistant agents of hospital infections. How will we deal with it if we can't answer the bacterial resistance anymore? Have you had any recent consultations with the hospital sector about this? Will you take an initiative with your colleagues in the European Union? Are there any calls going on? Madam Secretary, COVID-19 has really opened our eyes to many of us. Our medication policy is really not optimal, and we need to think about it in a European context. What will you do with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u61	Mrs Farih is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u62	Antibiotic resistance has indeed been increasing for some time and this is confirmed in several international reports. Several actions were taken during this legislative period, not only to combat this, but also to promote the correct use of antibiotics. There are the actions of the FAGG, including "A medicine is not a candy." We have campaigned every year and even campaigned for children through Suske and Wiske. In 2019, the KCE mapped the use of antibiotics in humans and animals in Belgium and made several recommendations under the onehealth principle. This indeed shows that we are still using too much antibiotics, which, of course, encourages resistance. We have strengthened the conditions for doctors to prescribe quinolones, actually the latest antibiotics. We have also asked the various administrations to draw up a new Action Plan on One Health to combat antimicrobial resistance. The FPS Public Health has done the same by now. In the first instance, it is the prescribers who have to handle antibiotics correctly. Small progress has been made in the meantime, but it remains a struggle that we must fight together with doctors, health insurance funds and citizens. Several consultation forums, including European ones, have already pointed out that the low prices of antibiotics seem to make it less interesting for pharmaceutical companies to develop new antibiotics, even if there is a great need for them. The issue is on the agenda of several international fora where Belgium also plays an active role. There are many ideas going around, but there is clearly no real miracle solution yet. I was also a tractor of the International Horizon Scanning Initiative (IHSI). In this context, several countries screen the pharmaceutical companies in the pipeline for valuable innovations. One of them could be a new antibiotic and in that case we will enter into dialogue with the company to see how the valuable innovation can possibly be brought to the patient more quickly. This instrument will also enable us, as a government, to better define unmedical needs and to engage in dialogue with the firms in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u63	It is true that the consultations in all the forums have, of course, been stalled over the last few weeks and months. However, we must not lose sight of the problem, because it is at all levels and in all countries. My question to see if we can create an independent working group here to propose and develop solutions remains open. I'm sure I'd like to call you to consider that. There is a lot of knowledge in independent working groups, which can certainly help. I can, of course, live with the fact that there will be no miracle solution now, but I would like to ask you to take a look at the thought trail proposed by Mr De Maeseneer to decouple research and development from production and sales. If we have learned anything from the corona crisis, it is that we must dare to continue on that thought path. I'm gonna make a warm call to check that out anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u64	Indeed, a great deal of work has already been done on antibiotic policy and doctors are working very closely on it. However, it does not appear to be sufficient. Reports from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control confirm that Belgium is only mediocre in scoring and calling for more effort. This is my call to you. It is a nice story, we have made efforts, you have referred to the horizon scanning, which you can work on. However, the policy may be a little more assertive for our patients and for our scientists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u65	Mr President, Minister, several academic hospitals in Europe, including the University Hospital in Ghent, are working in gene therapy production units to treat cancer and HIV patients. The enormous advantage highlighted by the institution is to offer treatments at cost. Today, the price of many innovative medicines is exploding, not least because of the financial agreements held secret but also because of the abusive patents to which they are subject. These premiums thus do not reflect the production costs or investments in research and development that have been made by firms. Let us look at the case of the Novartis firm, which was still charging, until recently, cystriah, a gene therapy against cancer at a rate of more than 300 000 euros per patient to social security! The opposition introduced by "Médecins du Monde" and "Public Eye" to this abusive patent led this pharmaceutical giant to withdraw the kymriah patent himself at the end of November, which now allows hospitals to develop a similar innovative treatment themselves at a lower price. What do you think, minister, about these collaborations? Do you intend to encourage them? How could we promote them? Is there not a way forward to reduce the cost of medicines and, above all, how do you explain Novartis' revocation of a patent? Does it not reflect the abusive nature of a patent that should never have been granted by the European Patent Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u66	Mrs Tillieux, collaboration is the key to my reform of hospital networking. This also applies to hospital pharmacies. In this context, we are faced with increasingly complex production and infrastructure investments as a result, which means that it is no longer possible for each hospital pharmacy to devote itself to all aspects of the production of pharmaceutical preparations. Pharmaceutical preparations developed by the hospital pharmacy could, in some cases, be an alternative to expensive marketed specialties, but this is not always the case, for example in the case of very large volumes or particularly complex techniques. In the example you refer to, these are particularly complex treatments to be developed and for Kymriah, individualized treatment, i.e. related to the patient's RNA or DNA. Production at the hospital level can only be considered on a very small scale, otherwise authorisation to place the product concerned on the market is necessary and the product will have to meet the same standards of the specialty. The same production standards will also apply. On the other hand, targeted production for an isolated patient is possible thanks to the hospital exemption. Article 6c of a law of 25 March 1964 on medicinal products provides that "a marketing authorisation or registration is not required for innovative therapy medicinal products prepared on a case-by-case basis in accordance with specific quality standards and used in a hospital under the exclusive professional responsibility of a doctor in Belgium in order to carry out a specified medical prescription for a product specially designed for a defined patient". I also read about the decision of the University of Pennsylvania to withdraw one of Kymriah's patents. However, the protection of this patent does not change. Therefore, this does not affect its repayment. The withdrawn patent concerns the protection of a slightly modified molecular version of the Kymriah, alongside which other forms exist. Patents are instruments to protect high-value innovation and to help the firm achieve a certain return on investment for risk-taking, so that it can finance its pipeline and the development of innovative products for patients. Any other use of a patent, with a view to extending the exclusivity of the market, should be avoided. The European Commission has been working on this for several years. In international forums, I continue to stress the need to continue this work. This patent withdrawal will allow for the immediate preparation of the Kymriah by the hospital pharmacy. Such an approach requires a very complex methodology. In any case, other forms of Kymriah are now available, so that other hospitals or pharmacies will be able to explore it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u67	Mrs Tillieux, as Mrs De Block has spoken a little longer, you can reply a little longer as well, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u68	Mr President, we are not going to shoot in length. I am pleased that patents can be withdrawn as a result of certain pressures, allowing hospital pharmacies to prepare solutions suitable for a certain type of patient. If this could reduce the pressure on our social security, it would be positive. The price of treatment, in some cases, really puts national budgets under pressure, as well as our health systems. Ultimately, access to care for sick people is at issue. So here I see an option, a possible one: you mentioned the 1963 law, which could give a little hope to all those who also think that secret financial agreements, abusive patents must cease. We must achieve more reasonable prices for treatments and avoid, as you pointed out, the extension of patents for the sole purpose of preserving the exclusivity of a drug in the market. The patient's interest must be at the centre of our concerns as well as facilitate the lives of caregivers. We forget it sometimes! But the use of these drugs is important for both.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u69	Mr President, Minister, this question is in line with the previous one and deals with the cessation of production of Augmentin and Clamoxyl by GSK at the end of 2021. Since no new antibiotics are being investigated, this is a problem. Clamoxyl will not be available in a generic form, so one will have to proceed to the generic form of Augmentin, but that product has a much wider spectrum and can therefore give rise to much more antibiotic resistance. That is a first point. A second element is the question of whether there will be enough of the generic means available. We are entirely dependent on China for the production of these generics, whereas this antibiotic is still used in very life-threatening conditions. Did you also consult in that regard? What steps have you taken? My text also contained a sub-question about the infectiologists and the clinical or medical microbiologists, but what I asked about it has now been Homologized, so I will drop that part of my question. Madam Secretary, how do you anticipate that Clamoxyl and Augmentin will no longer be produced? Are you taking steps to provide a local production in Europe? Are you discussing this with your European colleagues? Has there been any consultation with GSK?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u70	Madam Secretary, GSK has announced the production of Clamoxyl I.V. stop permanently at the end of 2021. This announcement comes after a problematic deficit that has lasted no less than nine months and which we have already discussed on a regular basis. This news also coincides with the publication of two WHO reports in which the organisation raises the alarm about the failing antibiotic policy of pharmaceutical companies. The reason for this is clear to the World Trade Organisation. I do not need to visit GSK, as you recommended to me, namely that antibiotics simply do not constitute a lucrative market and are therefore less invested in them. Unlike in neighbouring countries such as the Netherlands, there are no alternatives in our country for this vital medicine that has existed for 50 years. Madam Secretary, since when have you been aware of this cessation? In my view, it is not normal for a large company such as CSF to decide unilaterally to stop the production of a vital medicine. Have you asked for text and explanations from the company concerned? Has this possible cessation been mentioned at the time of the relative unavailability we have known? At the time of unavailability, you indicated that the stability of the primary raw material, sodium amoxycillin, could not be guaranteed, which would have led to this unavailability. You also said that you did not know whether the raw material or the supplier had changed. Do you know that in the meantime? You also said at the time of the unavailability that investments in the production line were needed. Did they happen in the meantime? What happens to these investments if we now decide to stop production? What's the status? Is there a solution in sight to the problem? I refer to a precedent. When Therabel tried to stop the blood thinner Marevan, there was a discussion and the producer came back to his decision. Is this possible in this case too? Do you, like me, believe that companies such as CSF have a social responsibility to which this is forsaken? One last element I'm adding is that Clamoxyl I.V. Also included in the list of critical medications is secondary infections that people develop following a COVID-19 infection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, after having had to deal with the shortage of Clamoxyl injectable in 2019, even though this specialty is now available again normally in our country, it appears that, by the end of next year, the marketing of Clamoxyl I.V. will be stopped. It seems that this will also be the case for the Injected Augmentin, which is announced to be the end of marketing by the end of this year. Following the shortage of Clamoxyl for injection in the second half of 2019, AFMPS had to issue a recommendation for restrictive use. These medicines are indeed essential. Given that this forward-looking work is being done by the Agency, could you tell me how much of these drugs are being used each year in our country? For how many treatments and how many patients? What are the complementary elements that GSK must now communicate to AFMPS? What are the short-term and longer-term solutions envisaged to ensure the quality of medical treatment in the absence of these two specialties? It appears that generic alternatives are available on the Belgian market for Augmentin I.V. Is that correct? Is the similarity complete? What exactly is the situation with regard to the alternative to Clamoxyl IV?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u72	Mr President, the end of the commercialisation of the intravenous forms of Augmentin at the end of 2020 and Clamoxyl at the end of 2021 was communicated to me by the company GSK in September 2019. The decision not only affects Belgium, but is a global decision. It's just about the intravenous forms and not about the oral forms. GSK informed me that the decision is a result of a global strategic market analysis. In other words, there will be no exception: the decision has been taken and it will not come back to it. We have, of course, had discussions about this. Each company has the possibility to change the availability of a medicinal product and possibly stop production. Of course, I hope and count on the company to put the patient at the heart of this task in order to provide him or her with the most appropriate treatment in a sustainable way. In the contacts with the company, therefore, I have also expressed my concern about the continuity of the treatment of our patients. At the same time, the FAGG was also informed of the discontinuation. Since then, the FAGG has been working with the company to minimise the consequences of the discontinuation and to make the transition to alternatives as smooth as possible. There is indeed a generic alternative for Augmentin I.V. which could supply the market. As for Clamoxyl I.V., AFMPS is in contact with certain authorisation holders abroad in order to make it also available in Belgium. In this way, we would have alternatives here. A depot is not a structural solution for me, as it is only temporary. Given the cessation of production, a depot cannot be resupplyed. It is therefore important that we look for alternatives in a structural way and ensure that they are available when these I.V. forms disappear from the market. Since the I.V. forms of these two antibiotics are mainly used in the hospital and are in hospital forfait, the impact on the cost price for the patient is nil. Antibiotic resistance is a major problem, much wider than just the availability of these two forms. It will therefore be minimally impacted. We see antibiotic resistance wider, in the context of our consumption of antibiotics. It is already fairly well controlled in hospitals which apply strict rules in this area. It is more of a problem in the case of the outpatient regulations and therefore in the case of their delivery. Last year we implemented an action plan on One Health to combat antimicrobial resistance. On 20 May, the Ministerial Decision on the recognition of clinical infectiology and medical microbiology was published, which was long awaited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u73	Mr President, Minister, your answer is not so reassuring. You say that you have known since September that production will be stopped and that the FAGG will take steps. Those are nine months that have passed and we have six months until the production of Augmentin stops. I hope that a solution will be found in those six months. For Augmentin there are indeed generics, but can you guarantee that they will be available? We have passed the law on the inaccessibility and I am still waiting for the implementing decision on this matter. That is one of the questions that still follow in this series. Madam Minister, I really hope that our patients will not fall without antibiotics, that our hospitals will not fall without Augmentin or Clamoxyl, as happened last summer, and that we will not have to beg again abroad to help us out of need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u74	Minister, I am quite shocked to hear that you have been aware of this since September 2019. We have referred at length to the shortage of Clamoxyl, whose production was to be interrupted, and you have taken no initiative in this regard! Today, we are still at the same level and perhaps facing a serious public health problem, as there is no alternative to intravenous Clamoxyl on the market. This shortage, which was already a significant problem, can therefore have extremely serious consequences. In your opinion, does a company such as GSK, which is present in Belgium and has been receiving subsidies for so many years, have no social responsibility for patients? Should it not instead ensure access to essential treatments? I think it's time to act rather than watch the train pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, but admit that the time has come to seriously roll back the sleeves, because there are only six months left before the scheduled date for the production interruption. Already in 2019, we have faced serious problems with Clamoxyl. Today we must act on all the levers and tackle the problem in concrete terms. I have no doubt that you will do so for a moment, but your action is essential to curb the consequences of this situation and to work on alternative solutions. Indeed, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the needs of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u76	As early as October's parliamentary re-entry, we asked you about the use of opiate drugs. The figures you have given us were not reassuring, in particular, with regard to the increase in consumption and the requirements recorded in Belgium in recent years. In France, a new measure applicable from 15 April 2020 requires a maximum period of prescription for painkillers containing Tramadol. This is reduced from 12 months to 3 months to limit their misuse and the risk of addiction. Thus, after 3 months, further treatment will require a new prescription. For our group, it is essential to regulate this consumption and its consequences. Coherent and effective policies are needed to change, monitor and analyze prescribing behaviours. What actions have you taken since our previous question to address the risks of over-consumption of these opioids? Have you obtained new figures for 2019? What do you think of the measures taken in France? Could they also be transposed in Belgium? Do you have any information on the progress of the working group proposed by the European Medicines Agency? What awareness-raising measures have you put in place for patients on the one hand and for doctors on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u77	On 16 January 2020, the Agence Nationale (French) de sécurité du Médicament et des produits de santé (ANSM) published a point of information on Tramadol in order to limit its misuse in which it informs that "the maximum duration of prescription of analgesic medicinal products containing tramadol (oral) is reduced from 12 months to 3 months, in order to limit their misuse as well as the risks of addiction. It shall apply from 15 April 2020. After 3 months, continued treatment with tramadol (oral) will require a new prescription." In Belgium, the AFMPS published on 6 January 2020 an information point entitled "Abuses of opioids antalgics – for rational use of opioids" in which it is limited to saying that "In view of the worrying data of increased use of opioids (associated with a risk of often underestimated psychological addiction) and the problems of abuse and misuse that may result from them, the AFMPS reiterates the importance of rational use of these substances." The Agency states that "In Belgium, the National Institute of Sickness and Disability Insurance (INAMI) has analysed the consumption of five opioids (...) which account for about 80% of the total use of all eligible opioids. Between 2006 and 2017, the number of patients who consumed at least one of these five opioids increased by 88%, reaching 1.104.485 insured, or about 10% of all Belgians." For patients, "L的AFMPS reminds us of the importance of using opioids at the prescribed dose and only for the maximum duration recommended by your doctor. Do not take opioid painkiller from a broken box, or that has not been prescribed for you personally, without medical advice." Do you intend to make arrangements similar to those made by ANSM in France? Beyond the "flash info" on the AFMPS website, what concrete steps do you intend to take to inform and educate prescribers about the very high consumption and the risks of this medication?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u78	This question on paracetamol was tabled on March 10. At that time, France decided to step in with Belgium and no longer sell paracetamol in free access to pharmacies and to require that there be a distance between the sale of the product and the customer, the distance being the counter. Meanwhile, a carte blanche was deposited by Professor Jean-Michel Dogné, who insisted on the ravages and dangers of paracetamol, in particular as a result of an overconsumption which can have serious consequences for the liver and therefore for the health of our fellow citizens. He recalled the importance of the pharmacist's role and defended the fact that paracetamol should not be sold freely without a prescription. Minister, did you read about this white card published in Le Soir at the time? What is your position on the sale of paracetamol without a prescription? Do you think that consideration should be given to this issue in order to stop this sale without a prescription? Do you have any figures on the number of hospitalizations related to the abuse of paracetamol in Belgium? Do you have any data on liver transplants in Belgium related to the misuse of paracetamol?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u79	Mr President, Madam Minister, my colleague has just recalled this decision of the Agence nationale française de sécurité, which concerns not only paracetamol but also nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as well as aspirin. This carte blanche of Professor Dogné convinces me, in my personal capacity, because as an internist and nephrologist, I have sometimes been confronted with patients who had taken this type of medication inadequately with poisonings afterwards. As a reminder, inquisitive studies have been published on the subject. It is the leading cause of life-threatening poisoning among young people aged 10-24 in the UK. Some countries have decided to take very strong measures in this area. This is the case in the United Kingdom but also in Sweden. My questions concern both the overall figures for paracetamol poisoning in Belgium, linked to misuse and the reflection that has been started, I hope, with a clear need for further measures concerning paracetamol and anti-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin. Has any work been done by AFMPS in consultation with pharmacists? What measures are envisaged? If this work has not been started, do you intend to start thinking about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u80	Minister, the context has been very well presented by my colleagues, but I think it is important to go back to the fact that health professionals are indeed concerned about the possibility of selling via online pharmacies or in supermarkets of paracetamol or ibuprofen. As explained at Pharmacy.be, the high liver toxicity of paracetamol is demonstrated if the maximum permitted dose is exceeded, as liver damage may lead to the need for liver transplants. My colleague Catherine Fonck cited studies and one of them was a study conducted in 2018 in the United Kingdom that showed that the release and inappropriate use of paracetamol was the leading cause of poisoning mortality among young people aged 10-24. I think it's really important to go back to that. In addition, ibuprofen was targeted during the health crisis of coronavirus as the cause of serious complications of the disease. It is therefore appropriate to supervise the supply of these medicinal products to the pharmacy, since the pharmacist is an essential element in determining the proper use of over-the-counter medicinal products. It guarantees scientific information that respects public health requirements. Despite this, the Netherlands continues to allow over-the-counter distribution in drugstores. France, for its part, has just banned free access to aspirin, paracetamol and ibuprofen in the officiaries and only allowing the sale behind the counter. In Belgium, internet sales on online pharmacies or in the pharmacy sector of certain approved stores, for example medimarket, are allowed but regulated, which is an excellent thing. Therefore, minister, can you let me know if further global control of the delivery of these drugs in the various distribution channels is possible? Do you consider it necessary to encourage the public to contact a pharmacist for this type of medication? Is there any consultation with the federated entities, since you are going to tell me that prevention is their responsibility? Finally, is harmonisation of the channels of distribution of these medicinal products - given the toxicity of paracetamol in case of exceedance of maximum doses - envisaged at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u81	Dear colleagues, various initiatives have been taken at both national and European level. The AFMPS has set up a cross-cutting working group that meets every three months. In addition, an interinstitutional working group - AFMPS, INAMI, SPF Public Health - also meets. Within the European Medicines Agency (EMA), a working group has just been formed. A first meeting was held last December. Depending on their discussions and possible recommendations, action may be taken. In January, AFMPS published on its website and on social networks a communication on the abuse of opioids analgesics. She pleaded for their rational use. For its part, INAMI has published a comprehensive report on the rational use of opioids in chronic pain. Physicians are made aware of the issue, in particular through the publications of AFMPS, the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (CBIP) and INAMI. Patients are also sensitized by doctors and pharmacists. They may also be covered by the above-mentioned publications. The communication of AFMPS, for example, reminded patients of the importance of using opioids at the prescribed dose and only for the maximum duration recommended by the physician. It is also recommended not to take opioid painkillers from a broken box or that have not been personally prescribed without medical advice. As regards measures in France, the maximum duration of prescription for painkillers has been reduced from 12 to 3 months. You know that when we changed the prescriptions, this was the subject of a whole discussion, but here in Belgium, the period of validity of the medical prescriptions is already three months. That is why, too, on the occasion of a question by Mrs Van Camp, I said that there was no intention of changing this point. There is therefore no need for us to transpose the measures restricting these periods of validity containing tramadol in France. I can provide you with the figures for the first eight months of 2019. They concern the repayment of opioids in officin. If I may, Mr President, I will send all these figures on daily doses, but also on expenses, patient expenses, total expenses, INAMI expenses and the number of packs, as well as the number of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u82	Minister, it is essential to take all necessary measures to properly inform patients and avoid the risks of self-medication that have dramatic consequences not only for patients but also for our long-term social security. I remain convinced of the role of the pharmacist with whom we have physical contact and who can inform us about the use of other drugs and the risks of interactions between drugs, or potentially dangerous contraindications. I invite you to take action on the promotion of these drugs and certainly on online sales. I see that these last few weeks, they've exploded. A press article again this week indicated the explosion of online sales of medicines, including ibuprofen and paracetamol, which makes me fear for the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u83	Minister, I don't think you answered the right question. You answered us about opioids, but paracetamol is not. It seems to me that you answered the previous question that Mrs Tillieux and I had turned into a written question about tramadol. I knew there was a European working group. It is a category of drugs that leads to addiction. With the limitation of the period of validity of the three-month order, this element is not negligible and must be continued. On paracetamol, since this is the subject of this question, Mr. Chair, can we let the minister answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u84	Yes, it seems to me that the minister did not understand that you had turned this question into a written question and therefore answered the previous question. Minister, we are talking here about paracetamol, under agenda item 14.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u85	Mr. President, please excuse me. I had not heard that the question had been transformed. In addition, Mrs Tillieux still spoke of the requirements that have been in force for a year in France. I was a little confused. The carte blanche refers in particular to a change that has taken place in France. You know that our Agency decided that from January 15 onwards, medicines based on paracetamol, aspirin and ibuprofen could no longer be presented free of charge in pharmacies, but placed behind the pharmacist's counter. In Belgium, this status does not exist as a direct-access medicine. The pharmacy must be organised in such a way as to prevent such access. Furthermore, Belgium allows all medicines - whether or not they are subject to prescription - to be dispensed only in pharmacies, unlike other countries which allow the use of other channels, such as large-scale distribution. This regulation of the distribution of pharmaceuticals aims to promote the proper use of drugs and highlights the major role of the pharmacist in this context. In this case, we fully subscribe to the content of this white card. The Agency is not currently considering changes to the status of paracetamol. Paracetamol is usually the first choice for pain and fever, thanks to its favourable safety profile, if properly used. Paracetamol-based medicines can therefore be freely dispensed by the pharmacist. However, given the risk of overdose, preparations containing more than 10 grams of paracetamol per pack may only be issued at the patient's written request or on medical prescription. AFMPS pays particular attention to the package leaflets of medicinal products containing paracetamol. Already in 2014, it published guidelines for holders of marketing authorisations for medicinal products containing paracetamol to facilitate the harmonisation of the package leaflets for these medicinal products. The pharmacist who knows the patient's pharmaceutical record accompanies the delivery of the medicines with targeted personal information, necessary for their proper use, in order to avoid overdose following the taking of various medicines containing paracetamol. As for the patient, it seems to me essential to make him aware of the health risks associated with taking medication. In this respect, various actions are undertaken by the AFMPS. In addition, one of the key messages of this campaign was to seek advice from the pharmacist. Another key message of this campaign was the use of self-medication painkillers. Currently, there is no planned consultation with the federated entities. Following media attention on overdose cases, already in 2018, the AFMPS has already published on its website a flash news recalling the importance of respecting the dosage and precautionary measures for paracetamol. In addition, a new flash news publication on the proper use of painkillers was published in March 2020. It follows the new measures taken by the French agency concerning the issue of certain over-the-counter painkillers, including paracetamol. As I know, there is no European harmonisation of the channels of distribution of this medicine, since it is a national competence. With AFMPS, it is possible to examine, on the basis of a risk analysis, whether it is necessary to intensify the controls in the pharmacy with regard to compliance with the conditions for the supply of medicinal products containing paracetamol, bearing in mind that medicinal products, including those selling medicines online, are already subject to periodic routine inspections. At the data level for Belgium between the beginning of 2015 and the end of 2019, AFMPS received nine notifications involving paracetamol with reference to hospitalization and abuse or overdose of the medicine. As far as transplants are concerned, I do not have the data to tell which transplants are due to an overdose of paracetamol. Between 2014 and 2017, Eurotransplant recorded 11 cases of transplantation in Belgium after an overdose of paracetamol. I do not have figures beyond 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u86	Mrs Fonck, it seems to me that you have more material here for a possible reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u87	Indeed, Mr. Chair, the answer is much better than the question. Minister, the two subjects if they are close are also very different. The problem is that direct access, given the evolution of recent years, exists in Belgium. When you say it doesn't exist, it's not correct, since online selling allows patients to buy directly the amount of paracetamol they want. On the other hand, there is no accompaniment. However, the role of the pharmacist is important both in terms of accompaniment, explanations and to ensure that there is no potentially fatal drug interaction or contraindications. This is the case for paracetamol as well as for anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin (haemorrhage). Greater vigilance is needed and this component of the online distribution of pharmacies for drugs of this type, which remain drugs, will need to be reviewed. They are not sweets but, unfortunately, in a number of cases, they are considered to be such. The news flashes of the AFMPS are interesting, of course, but I'm afraid they're not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u88	Minister, thank you for this very detailed and timely answer, given the subject. Indeed, it is a good thing to make doctors and patients aware of the need for rational use of these drugs and to ensure that these drugs can only be found behind the counter in pharmacies. This is all the more important now that one in ten users is taking more than the recommended maximum daily dose, which is a serious public health problem, given drug errors or the risk of overdose. On the other hand, it is true that there is still a problem with online sales, where paracetamol – I went to consult – remains available. A major effort remains to be made at this level. On the other hand, unfortunately, you have not answered my question as to whether harmonisation, or in any case a reflection in this sense, existed at European level, in order to avoid perhaps...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u89	I replied that this was in no way in their intentions and that the subject remained a national competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u90	All right. So that is not their intention. But did you express your regret about this or, in any case, argue that it was a position defended by Belgium? I think we should be able to avoid a perverse effect, which would be to see our fellow citizens go abroad to obtain this type of medicine more easily. I understand that the obstacle comes from the European level, but I still dared to hope that Belgium would do its part of lobbying for a change in a way that, at any rate, was more respectful of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u91	Mr President, since the Minister has answered a question which has not been asked, should we not simply consider that Question No 55002864C by Mrs Fonck and mine (No 55002736C), which we had transformed into written questions, have been asked? Let the services transcribe them since there is a particular status where there has been an answer without question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u92	Yes, we can do that. The texts of the questions will therefore be included in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u93	Thank you. In order to save time, I will not reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u94	Question No 55002780C by Mrs Sneppe is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u95	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Thursday, January 9, in the Charleroi region, a 17-year-old girl died from a toxic shock caused by a sanitary tampon. The mother of this dynamic and sporty girl decided to make public her daughter's death by saying that it should never happen again. The origin of this disease is a golden staphylococcus of which 4% of women are believed to be carriers. It is when this microbe manages to enter the bloodstream that the shock can occur. The setting of a buffer for more than four hours would be a trigger for the spread of this staphylococcus. One of the contributing causes would be the presence of polyacrylate in buffers. It would appear that in France the phenomenon is increasing and that women are poorly informed about this risk. Minister, can you give us the frequency of Buffer Toxic Shock Syndrome annually in Belgium? How many deaths are recorded? Is this phenomenon stable? Is there a follow-up to this phenomenon? Can you tell us if there have been cases of toxic shock after the use of the menstrual cut? Do you know if the buffers on the Belgian market use the substance polyacrylate? Do you think you are taking steps to avoid or increase awareness of the risk of toxic shock caused by a sanitary buffer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u96	Mr President, Madam Minister, the toxic shock syndrome that caused the death of a 17-year-old girl on January 9 is known, but can we do better in terms of prevention and information? As you know, this particular form of septic shock is caused by the golden staphylococcus. According to experts, the toxin associated with this shock comes from this staphylococcus, a bacterium present in 30% of the population. Although it causes a high mortality rate, it is fortunately still extremely rare, although it appears that the number of cases has increased in recent years. According to some information, several hypotheses could explain this, such as the nature of the components and/or the increased use of buffers or an evolution of the feed. Professor Gérard Lina, a microbiologist specializing in this syndrome, was able to indicate, following the death of the young woman, that 20 to 30% of women are carriers of the golden staphylococcus and that this widespread infection must be dealt with quickly. Reflexes and treatments are known: from the onset of symptoms, it is necessary to remove the tampon and menstrual cut, go to the hospital to receive intravenous treatment including antibiotic treatment. It seems that some doctors offer their patients who have developed the syndrome that is being discussed with a continuous contraceptive to prevent menstruation. It is also known that caution in dealing with this risk requires that continuous buffers be avoided throughout the period of the rules. They can be used for up to four hours by alternating with periodic towels. It is also recommended not to use tampons at night. However, according to some publications, many young women would not follow these recommendations. Minister, what analytical reports were sent to your department as a result of this death? Is it true that the number of toxic shock cases has increased over the past decade? Do you consider it necessary, in the interests of health protection and information, to take initiatives on this subject, in particular in consultation with health professionals, gynaecologists and family doctors? Have any experts decided on the need to adapt the indications on the buffer boxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u97	Mr. Chair, ladies, toxic shock syndrome is caused by some strains of a well-known bacterium called golden staphylococcus. Buffers but also menstrual cuts, contraceptive diaphragms, contraceptive sponges and cervical capes are associated with a low risk of toxic shock. In most cases, the above bacterium is not dangerous and is even naturally present in 15-40% of the population. Nevertheless, three parameters are relevant, namely the absorption capacity of the buffer used (i.e. its size), the duration of the buffer's wear and, finally, its composition. The higher these parameters, the greater the risk of developing a toxic syndrome. For this reason, it is recommended in the package leaflets to always wear a buffer at the lowest level of absorption possible and to change it regularly during the day, always ensuring that it does not exceed eight hours. As far as the substance is concerned, it has been found that pads made of cotton or natural material are less likely to cause this syndrome than pads made of synthetic material. It goes without saying that, as a precaution of hygiene, it is essential to wash your hands properly before and after applying a tampon. It is also essential to be able to identify the symptoms of a toxic shock. These symptoms – which are mentioned in the instructions for the use of tampons – are very similar to those of the onset of influenza. If a woman starts to experience these symptoms, she should immediately remove the tampon and contact her attending physician to explain the situation, not to mention that she is wearing a tampon. Information for women and girls is part of the policy of prevention, education and health promotion. Consequently, the services of the Public Health FPS have included this item on the agenda of the meetings of the NEHAP (National Environment-Health Action Plan) Cell with the Communities, as it falls within their competence. My services do not have official statistics on this toxic syndrome, a rare phenomenon fortunately. I met the parents of this young woman who gave their testimony. I have conveyed my condolences to them. However, it is regrettable that a girl is a victim of a toxic syndrome. With regard to the chemical composition of tampons and sanitary towels, some are made up of polyacrylate, a hyperabsorbent polymer. However, he is not in direct contact with the mucous membranes. It is the inner part of the buffer and is always covered with cotton and synthetic fibres. At present, there is no evidence to link this polymer to a possible aggravating factor of this toxic syndrome. In addition, this polymer is not classified in any hazard category.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u98	Madam Minister, thank you. However, it seems to me that there is a way to prevent this kind of situation. Indeed, there is a lack of awareness. The risk of being affected by this syndrome is not necessarily clearly indicated on buffer boxes. Secondly, since you say that the degree of absorption, the size of the buffer and its composition have an impact on the risk of developing the syndrome, can we not stop marketing some of them to avoid this kind of phenomenon as much as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u99	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is clear that the loss of a child in such circumstances creates a great deal of sadness and misunderstanding among the parents as well as of emotion among the population. You're sensitive to it. Much remains to be done in terms of prevention on the part of federated entities, but also at the federal level. We will talk about this subject again to try to provide answers, while keeping fully in mind that not everything depends on the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u100	Minister, in 2015, the KCE released a report entitled What screening for cervical cancer? This is the fourth most common cancer in young women. This cancer was diagnosed 640 times in 2018 and 235 women died in Belgium. WHO has developed a three-pronged strategy to reduce cervical cancer: vaccination, screening and early treatment of pre-cancerous lesions. In the KCE study, it was suggested that cervical cancer screening could be done more reliably by conducting direct HPV research once every 5 years instead of screening every 3 years for women over 30 years of age. Minister, until today, HPV research is still not reimbursed for testing. Why didn't you follow this KCE recommendation? The other question concerns a study released in December by the Intermutualist Agency (IMA), which showed that between 2008 and 2017, the number of women participating in screening decreased by a quarter in Brussels, from 65 to 46 % in Brussels and from 64 to 48 % in Wallonia. One of the possible causes is the measure that you have taken to reduce the reimbursement of smear from every year to every three years. The three-year delay you put in place seems to have made women forget to do their smear, given the length of the delay. It is true that you also made the smear free for patients. However, in view of the decrease in the number of women taking part in the screening, the Sciensano agency recently concluded: "The differences between the Regions show that Belgium needs an integrated approach to HPV testing and vaccination in all regions of the country." Minister, have you read about this study of AIM? What do you think? Have you taken any steps since then? At the time when you decided to deflate the annual smear, was it in agreement with the Communities at that time? Are you concerned about, and are you planning to take action to reduce the screening rate? Do we have an increase in cervical cancers in Belgium since then? Is there a strategy to implement the third axis advocated by WHO, i.e. the rapid treatment of pre-cancerous lesions? What do you think of Sciensano's position on the need for an integrated plan for cervical cancer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u101	Mr.President, Minister, the latest figures for cervical screening show a decrease in the number of women who performed this free screening every three years between 2015 and 2017. In fact, the rate of tests conducted during this period fell to 46 per cent of the target audience, i.e. women aged 25-64. It reached 65 per cent in the previous period. More specifically, women benefiting from increased and therefore socio-economically disadvantaged interventions were even less exposed to testing than others. In general, the screening rate is falling more significantly on the side of older people. This is obviously paradoxical, given the risk of cancer in this age group. Also, is this an effect of vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV)? Is an amalgam found in patient-perceived information? This would, in any case, be a problem, since scientists point out that vaccination is necessary, but not sufficient in the fight against cervical cancer. Minister, could you tell me what conclusions your department was able to draw from these figures? Will the Interdepartmental Conference on Health soon include this topic on its agenda? Do you intend to include it in the discussion? What is the trend in the number of diagnosed cervical cancer cases since 2009? What new and joint initiatives, in the context of the reimbursement of HPV vaccination and smear every three years, is the Public Health FPS planning to take place in the near future, taking into account these results?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against cervical cancer and its prevention require an integrated approach to vaccination and screening, as Mrs Merckx has also said. Immunization and cancer screening programmes fall within the competence of the Communities or the Regions. The study by the Intermutualist Agency (IMA) that you mention actually shows a declining participation rate in cervical cancer screening in Brussels and Wallonia between 2008 and 2017. In Brussels, it fell from 65% to 46% and in Wallonia from 64% to 48%. The rate of participation in the screening programme in the Flemish Community is 63.4%. Decisions on changes to the programme, including the promotion of the participation rate, are taken by the federated entities. With regard to the prevention of cervical cancer, Flanders has had an official screening programme since 2013 which encourages all women aged 25 to 64 to have a smear every three years and a free vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV) in the first year of secondary education for girls, with vaccination coverage of more than 80%. This free vaccination was recently extended to boys. In Wallonia and Brussels, an official screening programme is not yet organised, but there are awareness campaigns. A free vaccination campaign against HPV is organized in the second year of secondary education with vaccination coverage of 30 per cent. This free vaccination has also recently been extended to boys. Screening for cervical cancer remains essential, even in women vaccinated against the HPV virus. Indeed, the existing vaccine does not protect against all types of viruses likely to cause cervical cancer. Furthermore, we do not yet have reliable scientific data on the duration of protection afforded by this vaccine. Screening for cervical cancer is currently carried out by cytological examination of a cervical-vaginal smear. The INAMI nomenclature provides for the reimbursement of this examination every three years, following the Royal Decree of 11 February 2013, taken by my predecessor in accordance with the European recommendations on the basis of scientific evidence. KCN established in 2015 that screening based on detection of the virus is more effective than the current smear to protect women over 30 years of age. Today the HPV test is refunded, as is the supplementary examination for women whose cytological smear examination has abnormalities. This test must be performed every five years. With regard to the rapid treatment of pre-cancerous lesions, the objective of screening is precisely to detect and treat the injury at an early stage. In Belgium, 623 cases of cervical cancer were diagnosed in 2011, compared to 622 in 2017. Therefore, there is no major increase in the incidence of cervical cancer. The consultation with the federated entities within the framework of the Interministerial Conference of Public Health gave rise to a decision in principle, in July 2018, for the transition from cervical cancer screening by cytology to HPV testing every 5 years for women between the ages of 30 and 64. A technical working group was set up to develop an action plan describing its implementation. It will also examine the modalities of a possible public procurement for the purchase of tests and the budgetary implications of this transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u103	Minister, it appears that a decision was made in December 2018 to conduct HPV testing. However, nothing has yet been implemented. We can only see here the big problem of the fragmentation of skills in our country. Not only is there a waste of time, but there are different screening rates in different regions, which still has rather severe consequences in terms of follow-up to screening programmes. In the case, for example, of cervical cancer, prevention and treatment cannot be divided. In fact, the triple programme provides for the detection and rapid treatment of newer lesions. The question arises, for example, of who is working on the issue. Do NEB nurses contact women who have been screened by telephone? No. In my view, we have the proof here that we must re-federalize the health care system and lead a comprehensive and equitable approach throughout Belgium. Indeed, the victims of the current situation are the most disadvantaged and the least informed about the screening campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see in your leadership the will to move forward and the awareness of the importance of vaccination, screening and greater accessibility of the vaccine. It is regrettable that Flanders has an official screening programme while Wallonia and Brussels are lagging behind. It is clear that there is work to be done at the level of the federated entities. I see you've taken the lead in moving the case forward. I will come back to you constructively later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u105	Mrs. Depoorter is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u106	No less than one in four of the Belgian over 40s or 1.5 million Belgians swallow cholesterol reductions or so-called statins. High cholesterol can cause arterial calcification, which can be a cause of cardiovascular disease. The Knowledge Centre warns that the advantages and disadvantages of taking statins must be carefully weighed, as they can also have side effects, such as muscle cramps, kidney failure, diabetes or permanent muscle injuries. Moreover, according to the Knowledge Centre, 88 percent of patients taking statins have no increased risk of cardiovascular problems. On the other hand, the Knowledge Centre does argue that the cholesterol inhibitors should continue to be taken as long as necessary, because the statins only have an effect after a long period of time. Do you share the opinion of the Knowledge Centre that there is an overconsumption of a number of cholesterol lowering agents? The Knowledge Centre has launched a digital application that enables patients to assess the advantages and disadvantages of the statins together with the doctor. Has that instrument been widely used by the doctors? When I submitted the question, the application had only just been launched; in the meantime it has been active for a few months. Have you discussed preventive cholesterol lowering measures with the communities responsible for this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u107	Mr President, if you will allow me, I will give you a brief answer; I will give you the figures that Mrs Depoorter is asking for in writing. Mr Bertels, according to the legislation, statins used in first-line treatment to reduce LDL cholesterol are reimbursed through Chapter 1 in category b and Chapter 4 in category a. They may be reimbursed if the prescriber respects the indications in the scientific package leaflet, if there is a prescription at the pharmacist's premises and if the pharmacist delivers the proprietary medicinal product. The scientific package leaflet is a document reflecting the indications and possible side effects. statins are indicated for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, namely secondary prevention, especially for people with documented cardiovascular disease, which is also their LDL level, but also primary prevention. Cost-effectiveness is most favourable in subjects with high cardiovascular risks, such as patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia, they are covered by Chapter 4a, patients with diabetes, patients with chronic renal insufficiency or patients with elevated overall cardiovascular risk assessed through the SCORE model. Indeed, a tool has been developed in the KCE report No. 324. General practitioners were closely involved in their development. In OECD statistics, Belgium is ranked third in relation to other countries on the use of lipid-lowering agents in 2017, after the United Kingdom and Denmark. There is therefore a considerable consumption of these resources. The tool could be developed thanks to people who volunteered for it. The tool was then thoroughly evaluated. Furthermore, the monitoring of the prescriber profiles, introduced in 2015, can check whether doctors actually prescribe a minimum percentage of cheap medicines, which has also slightly reduced costs. The RIZIV also acts as part of the refund of the smoke stop, because smoking can also lead to cardiovascular complications. Patients are also encouraged to use therapy faithfully and correctly. However, prevention policy is a competence of the communities. The benefit of lipid lowering agents is greatest in patients with high cardiovascular risk and they should maintain treatment for a lifetime. For people with low or moderate cardiovascular risk, the decision should be carefully considered. It should be discussed with the patient, emphasising that medication is only an additional treatment, in addition to nutritional advice and lifestyle adjustment, with, for example, more movement. Mrs Depoorter asked for the tables showing the expenditure. You will see that there is a huge drop in prices that we have made. In 2009, the statins cost 1.2 million patients 216 million euros and in 2018 it had fallen to 79 million euros for 1.4 million patients. This is due to the price reductions that we have imposed. I will give you the other tables in writing, because Mrs Depoorter also asked for the figures by region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u108	Madam Minister, I assume that, through the secretariat, we can get the tables on the use of statins and the impact of prescribing behaviour, profiles and so on. Costs for statins are an important part of our pharmaceutical budget, which we have to deal with carefully, just as we have to deal with the cholesterol-lowering medicines, the statins themselves. Patients with high cardiovascular risks should definitely be able to receive them. Patients with low cardiovascular risks should be able to receive them, if justified on the basis of the Knowledge Centre tool developed by the general practitioners. That tool, as you said, is occasionally evaluated, can be used well and must be preserved. All we have to do is to ensure that there is no conflicting information, that there is too much use of statins on the one hand and, on the other hand, that they are definitely to be used, because this may seem confusing to patients and general practitioners on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u109	Mr President, Madam Minister, this question was tabled before the health crisis that we are experiencing and was indeed in connection with a news at the beginning of this year relating to the decision of an insurance company to withdraw a number of Belgian hospitals which are partners in a proposed product and which allow unlimited reimbursement of hospital costs. Indeed, it appears that the insurance company has found an extremely large percentage of fee supplements and has increased significantly in the 33 hospitals that are partners in its hospital insurance product to cover unlimited costs. Patients who have the DKV Hospi Select insurance policy must, however, pay a 20% supplement when they are in a hospital that is not a partner of the insurer. In addition, this cost coverage extends 30 days before up to 120 days after hospitalization. Could you then tell me whether your services have been aware of this decision and of the figures, on the basis of which this decision was taken by the insurance company. Have any other such decisions been taken by other hospital insurance companies? Can any specific steps be taken by your department to deal with such insurers' decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u110	Indeed, we have seen figures showing a further increase in fee and room supplements in several hospitals across the country. Regular monitoring was carried out by the administrations, namely the National Institute of Sickness and Disability Insurance (INAMI) and the Federal Public Service (SPF) Public Health. The Working Group on Supplements of Fees has the figures, but they have not yet been updated. Once this has been done, I will be able to send you the picture in writing. With regard to the findings of other end-of-partnership decisions by private insurance companies, I note that these decisions are not communicated to me ex officio. Like you, I am aware of this in the media and I have no competence in this regard: my competence concerns only the hospital insurances offered by mutual societies. As you know, it is not easy to make new decisions in a day-to-day government. During this term, however, I have already done a considerable amount of work through the reform of hospital funding and the partial implementation of low-variability care. In addition, we have put in place direct measures to avoid supplements (I am thinking here of the prohibition of applying fee supplements in rooms of two or more persons) or in favour of breast reconstruction following a mastectomy following cancer or carried out as a preventive measure. A working group was formed by INAMI and the Public Health FPS to monitor closely the supplements requested in hospitals. We must continue to take action. Indeed, while their number had been reduced, it is still increasing in groups where it is still possible. As you know, this is a delicate job. We had introduced tariffs for low variability care. The newspapers then mentioned that patients would no longer be cared for by an anesthetist during an operation. I remember the Nieuwsblad's front page about that. Similarly, it was explained that babies had no faces, while they had always been on the mother's bill. We have also discussed legal matters on this subject. We have always been right, it was not discrimination. The RIZIV has also taken measures. I just want to say that there is a great deal of resistance to working on that. However, I am proud that we have been able to do this for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u111	Minister, thank you for your answers and clarifications. We clearly see a difference between the insurances of private companies and those offered by mutual societies. Moreover, since you do not have the means to act against the former, we must remain vigilant about this problem, which must be integrated into the reform of hospital financing. Indeed, we know that this happens in the surcharge of fees. However, our hospitals are currently in the red. So they couldn't do without it. In any case, it would be inappropriate for some insurance companies to get fat on the backs of the state, patients or doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, when I tabled this question several months ago, you had not yet made a joint statement with the Beneluxa colleagues. The announcement by the pharmaceutical company Novartis of the establishment of a global free access program to its medicine dealing with spinal muscle atrophy has indeed created a strong emotion. While some compare this programme to a future lottery for 100 babies under two years of age in 2020 and 2021, questions arise about this programme and its ethical character, given that about 1,600 babies are suffering from this disease in Europe. While the European Medicines Agency has yet to issue its authorisation for this medicinal product Zolgensma, Novartis states that this programme will target babies living in countries where the marketing authorisation of their medicinal product is not yet effective. The firm stated that it should, to the extent of its limited production capacity, provide this therapy as a matter of priority where it has been approved and based on clinical trials. Minister, what specific requests have you made to Novartis as part of this medical treatment distribution program? Have you received a response following your collegial request for the implementation of a collaboration with doctors and to determine the exchange of information with Beneluxa? Is there any contact with the pharmaceutical company within the framework of this programme? What answers has the pharmaceutical company been able to give you about the practical arrangements for the delivery of the medicinal product and the criteria for the allocation of the dose of the medicinal product under this early delivery programme before the end of the marketing procedure? What is your information about the independent bioethics advisory committee that participated in the development of this program? According to what official criteria is legitimacy established? Specifically, what experts have participated and what conclusions have been reached by this Committee in this work? Where are we with this program today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u113	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, indeed, Belgium has had several contacts with Novartis AveXis to obtain information on its Global Managed Access Program set up by the company in order to allow free access to Zolgensma for 100 children worldwide in countries where Zolgensma is not yet accessible. Belgium has tried to get Novartis to put in place objective selection criteria defined by experts in their field, so that patients with the greatest and most urgent need are given priority, rather than a system based on chance. The Managed Access Program is a global program implemented by Novartis AveXis so that patients with SMA and under two years of age can benefit from Zolgensma before it is placed on the market. The number is limited because, to date, the company's production capacity for Zolgensma is very limited with only one production centre in the world in the United States. Two other production centres are under construction but will not be operational until 2021 at the earliest. According to the information available to me on this programme, the doctor in charge of treatment can send Novartis a request for access to treatment with Zolgensma after checking that the child is responding to the Zolgensma indication. Novartis organizes every six months, a global draw to select 50 participants who will benefit from the treatment. At the time, I had reacted by saying that a draw for the treatment of some babies was unethical. We have very little information about the bioethics committee that gave a favourable opinion on Novartis' early access program. This is an American committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u114	Madam Minister, this is quite challenging. How can we ethically admit that babies who are eligible for treatment can be randomized every six months? Keep fighting so that it is accessible to all and to uphold ethical meaning because this is more than deplorable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u115	Debates of the European Parliament 55002895C by Mrs Sneppe has been converted into a written question. Mrs Depoorter would normally come to her question No. 55002904C. We now come to the questions put together by Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Taquin and Mr Creyelman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u116	Mr President, this is a very old question that dates back to the end of January. Then came COVID-19 and I don't know if things have happened in this file in the meantime. I'll put the questions to you anyway. Wiery is easily attributed to benevolent properties, often associated with well-being and feeling zen. A number of test results from a test conducted by Test Purchase show the reverse of that medal. They say that as soon as incense is lit, many undesirable and sometimes even harmful substances are released. This is evident from their research and this was the case with a large number of incense products tested. Especially the emissions of benzene, formaldehyde, acrolein and carbon monoxide would cause concern. Benzene and formaldehyde are carcinogenic and acrolein is a very irritating substance and harmful to breathing. In concrete terms, this type of incense sticks that can be bought on the market can cause headaches, dizziness, nausea and irritation of eyes and lungs. Test Purchase even says that there is hardly a difference between this type of product and smoking in the home and therefore calls for the products examined to be immediately withdrawn from the market. More generally, Test Purchase calls for a ban on the sale of incense sticks to young people under the age of 18, as for cigarettes, and for a ban on advertising and a clear label indicating the risks of the products in question. Madam Secretary, are you aware of this investigation and its results? I'm assuming that's the case. Do you believe that this is so serious that measures are needed? Are there any figures on the sale of these products? Are they indeed sold on a very large scale? What is your opinion on the measures proposed by Test Purchase? Are you inclined to apply it or examine it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u117	Madam Secretary, I'd like to ask you the questions. What action have you taken on the previous questions and suggestions of Test Purchase on this issue? As the colleague said, Test Purchase compares the harmfulness of this type of product with smoking in the home. How do you estimate the harmfulness of these products? Finally, given the high concentration of volatile organic components and benzene measured when the incense products are burnt, are you considering banning such incense products? If not, are you considering other measures? Which ones would they be if they were?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u118	Madam Minister, domestic pollution and therefore the air quality level of living places and homes remains an area of concern. If any combustion product has been polluting for several years, findings are made regarding fine particles released into the air by incense products. A new study from Test-Achats highlights substances characterized by dangerous substances and carcinogens related to incense products: benzene, acrolein (a very irritating substance for the respiratory tract, eyes and mucous membranes of the nose) or carbon monoxide. This problem certainly involves awareness-raising measures but also public health information. So, could you tell me what controls are being carried out on these products for sale? On the basis of what criteria are these incense products analysed in order to consider them as potentially harmful and therefore requiring special precautionary measures? What European standards exist for domestic pollution? How many such products have been removed from the sale in our country since 2005 and following what type of investigation? By whom are they realized? Do you consider it necessary to put in place specific labelling informing buyers of the composition of these incense products and the potential risks associated with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u119	Mr President, I also raised a topical question on this subject. It was filed on 8 May at 12:13 p.m. Why is it not on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u120	I can't answer you, but you can put it down now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u121	When one refers to the phenomenon of pollution, it is generally the external pollution to which reference is made. Domestic pollution is a real scourge of public health, to which we must remain attentive. We need to focus on this because we spend 80% of our time in closed places and especially in recent months. In this regard, Test-Achats asked you, several weeks ago, about the composition and labelling of incense and candles. My colleagues have just referred to this widely. Minister, the consumer does not always have adequate information on the safe use of deodorizer emissions products. Is this subject discussed with your colleague from the Economy? European standards have been adopted, but unfortunately most incense does not come from the European Union. They are sold on the internet where they are easily found. The market is therefore very difficult to control. In view of these findings, it seems to me that the authorities must adopt the necessary measures to protect the citizen. This is why Test-Achats calls for further regulation of the availability and use of these products and wants to introduce labelling with mandatory indications both in terms of the composition of the product and the risks and precautions to be taken. What measures do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u122	Mr President, we have never received Mrs Tillieux's question, and you will have to look into what happened. Measurements such as those of Test Purchase only take into account the potential and not the real risk of emissions of certain substances, because there is no information on the exposure, the actual conditions of use, the duration and the places where the product is used. This therefore implies that if we want proportionate and effective regulation, one must somehow go into the private sphere of users in order to be able to observe their behaviour. The emission measurements carried out by Test Purchase do help to draw attention to the fact that the assessment of products such as frankincense should be based not only on measurements of the chemical content but also on emission measurements. To this end, it is necessary to clarify the critical points for control and to adapt existing European legislation on chemicals and consumer protection. The legal treatment at European level of emissions of substances such as benzene or formaldehyde that are only released when incense sticks are incinerated and are not present in the products themselves is today a grey zone. The regulation is done on an ad hoc basis. A unilateral action by Belgium, while the proportion of production by those producers in Belgium is minimal, would be particularly difficult to control and sanction, especially since it would undoubtedly soon be regarded as an undermining of the free movement of goods by the Commission or the European Court of Justice. In this case, namely a product which works by combustion, by analogy with candles and candles, it appears that the European Directive of 3 December 2001 on general product safety applies. It falls within the competence of my colleague Mrs Muylle, in charge of consumer protection. We will therefore stress the need to deal properly with the issue of sources of chemical pollution. I am referring to the products placed on the Union market at the disposal of the average consumer. Mrs Taquin, it is the Public Health FPS that strongly discourages the use of deodorizers, especially those that work by combustion. In addition, during the Belgian Presidency in 2010, the Public Health FPS made indoor air a priority. Under this impetus, the EPHECT (Exposition Household Consumer Products) project laid the foundation for standardization work on consumer products. It is not only air in nature that is essential, but also air quality in homes and in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u123	Mr President, Minister, you say it at the end: indoor air is very important. A number of health organisations, including our health insurance fund, have already organized a lot of campaigns to alert people to the health of indoor air. This is where the danger lies. I repeat what I said at the beginning of the question: these things are considered relaxing and zen-making. The consumer is quite inclined to catalog that as healthy. In this sense, it is particularly important that we look a little more closely at this. I understand what you are saying about Europe and freedom of movement, but we can also look at the labelling of such products in our country and make a number of demands on them. In any case, I would also like to put this question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mrs Muylle. It is difficult for me to accept that we should not be able to do anything about it in Belgium and leave it all to Europe. At least we must send a signal by questioning the European authorities on this matter. I think we have not heard the last word on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Frankly, I found your answer a little presumptuous at first and even a bit minimal when you pointed to the real versus potential emissions of those products. That gave me the impression that you were hiding behind European Union legislation. I am more satisfied with the last part of your answer, because you said that you will follow the case together with Minister Muylle to see what can happen locally in this country, recognising that both indoor and outdoor air is important for users.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u125	Minister, you pointed out that indoor air is an extremely important health issue. You have addressed this issue since 2010 by stressing that this is a priority and that this issue should serve as a basis for the work. You have also indicated that there is a European regulation that we have to comply with – we have no choice. This proves that everything is possible and that we can focus on effective and coordinated work to further inform the public about the dangers of using these products. I have no doubt for a moment that progress in this area will be one of the priorities of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u126	Mr. President, may I reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u127	Mrs Tillieux, I'm sorry, we haven't found your question. Perhaps you could give us more details?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u128	Mr President, the committee was scheduled for work until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u129	I was told it was agreed at 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u130	Who said that? My schedule says up to 5:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u131	The secretary of the committee told me this afternoon. Maybe there's been a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u132	How then did we get the message that the sitting would last until 5 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u133	Do you have another appointment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u134	That's right. A Council of Ministers also took place this afternoon and I said that I really could not be there because I had to go to the Chamber. I'm sorry, but now I have another appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u135	I shall have Mrs Tillieux replicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u136	It's very difficult for me. I also wanted to be present at the Council of Ministers, but it was not planned at first. I told him I wasn't gonna cancel my meeting in the Chamber. We started at 1:30 p.m., earlier than usual, as usual. I have a very difficult time with three departments still to do my duties when I have so much to be in the Chamber. I'm coming to the Chamber, but it's not nice to have to cancel the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u137	I understand that and we thank you for your presence. Apparently there's been a misunderstanding. I was told 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u138	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand the time constraints. It's not easy when you run several departments. For the rest, we will address the issue of product labelling recommendations to Minister Muylle. You talked about standardization, it would be good to move forward on the problem of incense that releases extremely dangerous, irritating and even carcinogenic substances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic222x.u139	Mr. Chair, I would like to thank the minister for the answers she provided to us today. As Mrs Tillieux has pointed out, we appreciate the fact that she has devoted a lot of time to us. We fully understand that it is in the midst of crisis management. We wish him a good job of which we know he is consistent.
