ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u2	Mr President, I am very pleased that we are having this debate. It's had some feet in the earth, but now it's there and that's the most important thing. Perhaps we should have a plenary debate on this before each meeting of the European Council, following the example of the Netherlands. I break down an open door when I notice that we are facing an unprecedented crisis, a pandemic. At the same time, it is an opportunity for Europe to show that it can act quickly, decisively and efficiently. Never washed a good crisis, is sometimes said. Unfortunately, some seem to be using the crisis to conduct ideological debates, for example on coronabonds, which means that we will not only have to pay the Belgian debt, but also the Greek debt, for example. Or an ideological debate is still taking place, for example, to introduce European taxes as a new source of money or to transfer more powers to the European level. The subject of public health has already been touched. However, we are not helping the countries where the need is so high, such as Italy and Spain. Madam Prime Minister, will you support Germany in his plea at 3 p.m.? In other words, will Belgium, like Germany, advocate effective and rapid solidarity without additional transfers? Are you prepared, following the example of the Netherlands, to enter into a systematic debate with Parliament in the future, before a European summit is held?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u3	Madam Prime Minister, more than ever today, we will have to make decisive choices in order to redeploy our economy, after this unprecedented epidemic. As ecologists, we want to tell you that we need, more than ever, more Europe, a strong and united Europe. I'm sorry, the truth is that in hospitals, in SMEs, in Belgium, we don't see Europe enough. What we are asking you today at the European Council, Madam Prime Minister, is to include Belgium as a pioneer of a new era of European construction because, we are convinced, Europe will emerge from this crisis, growing or weakened. A new era with the Green Deal and all the jobs it means. A new era that will not forget anyone on his way and a new era that will create European loans because, if we borrow together, we will pay less. It will be good for our economy and it will be solidarity with countries that have suffered so much during this crisis. I am thinking of Spain but also of Italy. Please, let us not make the mistakes of the past! Let us not renew the experience of Greek debt and choose optimistic, courageous, bold, green and solidarity-oriented solutions for the future! Prime Minister, my questions are simple. Yes or no, are you going to support the creation of European loans at the European Council today, together with Belgium, as requested by the European Parliament? Yes or no, are you going to ask Belgium to move forward with a coalition of the most voluntary and thus to include our country in the ecological and solidarity transition at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u4	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has once again shown itself by its lack of solidarity and its disunity, as in other situations – this time it is even more marked. We therefore need a start for a human Europe, which we need, and a Europe of solidarity. We must choose this Europe of solidarity in the face of the Europe of austerity. Today, there will be this summit. Prime Minister, what position will we stand for? Are you going to defend the coronabonds or other equivalent formulas to allow for more flexibility and less fiscal fragility, to allow us to be up to the challenge and to meet all the challenges? What follow-up will you give to the letter from the President of the Council on the European Recovery Fund? How will the government position itself with regard to the creation of health monitoring through European coordination? At one time, there was much talk of European civil protection. We miss that today. Maybe it's an opportunity to fix this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u5	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, today you meet your counterparts during a new European Council on this issue of VOCID-19 and its economic implications. On 26 March 2020, the members of the European Council agreed that a coordinated exit strategy, a comprehensive recovery plan and unprecedented investments were needed. The President of the Council and the President of the Commission have been instructed by the Member States to work on a roadmap and action plan to ensure the well-being of all Europeans. The aim is to put the European Union back on track for strong, sustainable and inclusive growth. Finally, during the Council meeting on 26 March 2020, the Member States instructed the Eurogroup to submit proposals to address the socio-economic consequences of the crisis. On 9 April 2020, the Eurogroup reached an agreement focusing on three pillars: EUR 240 billion in loans from the European Stability Mechanism, the creation of a EUR 200 billion guarantee fund for businesses, a EUR 100 billion fund to support partial unemployment. These decisions are historic and demonstrate the willingness of the Member States and the Union to respond strongly to the challenge of VOCID-19. Madam Prime Minister, what progress has been made at European Union level since the beginning of this crisis? In what direction do you think the discussions will take place during today's Council? In concrete terms, what do you expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u6	I note that this Parliament only listens to dictations from a European summit. We must adapt our work if Charles Michel decides anything. The prime minister is Charles Michel's puppet. On the question of whether she wants to be a minister, Mrs Wilmès says yes. But the fact that she is a French-speaking minister who lives in Flanders is no problem here. If Mr Michel asks Mrs Wilmès to become Prime Minister, she will, and the fact that she only has 16,000 votes in favour and no one knows her is no problem. Even now, Mr Michel has called Mrs Wilmès asking if she would like to come to the European summit to support the proposal of the Eurobonds, the corona bonds. Again, this is not a problem. For our party, that's a problem. The Fleming is already the biggest payer to keep this place straight. As a Fleming, we are already the largest net contributor to the European Union. Now the coronabonds or Eurobonds are pounding through the throats of that hardworking Fleming, a bridge is too far. That is completely unacceptable! That is why I am asking you very explicitly, Mrs Wilmès, to stand back and not plead for the Eurobonds. But I also know that you are not going to listen to me, so I am addressing the colleagues from Open Vld, your liberal family, and group leader Lachaert. Elections are coming for the Presidency and you are very happy to be a dark blue. If you support this, we will be in debt at European level to help socialist countries out of need. Well, if I were a dark blue liberal, I'd vote for Els Ampe, because we could laugh again. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u7	I do not know whether Mr Lachaert will be grateful for this publicity. I doubt that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, these are extraordinary times. These are times when we also show that we are not living on an island in Belgium, but are connected with the rest of the world and thus with the rest of Europe. In this context, the European Summit and European recovery policy are of course important. There is no doubt that a recovery fund will also be discussed at the summit. We can ask two questions. First of all, what's in there? What should Europe do? Secondly, how will we pay for that? When we look at what can be done, the road map for recovery indicates a number of directions and principles that are also important to us: solidarity, responsibility and flexibility. The focus should be placed on the revival of the internal market and on much-needed investment. For us, it is important that the new corona priorities are combined with the old priorities. Every euro that is now being invested in Europe must also be invested in the future of the inhabitants, of all of us. As far as financing is concerned, there is a lot of discussion about how and through which system the payment should be made. We cannot rule out any financial instrument in advance, but it must be effective. Hence my questions. What are the important points that you will be defending from our country in relation to the European Recovery Fund? How will the funding happen? Do we argue for our own European income or for systems in which public debt is partly made common?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, you are going to the European Summit. There's gonna be a lot of pressure to reboot everything. We feel that Europe's pressure on Belgium is increasing enormously. That's already a hot item. How will we do it? I know how not to do it. That's very clear. Every week I call with fear with my family in Italy to find out if they are still healthy. The most affected region is Northern Italy, where industry has been kept in an irresponsible way. The trade unions then fought very hard to close the non-essential sectors. Their slogan was: "Noi siamo lavoratori, non carne da macello" or "we are workers and not slaughter cattle." Fortunately, due to pressure from the bottom up, from the trade unions mainly and from the workplace, we do not have any Italian situations here in Belgium at the moment. I spent hours on the phone every day with trade unionists from Audi, Volvo and many other companies to see how we could solve the cases and how we could make people work in a safe way. Madam Prime Minister, I address you to that, because it is important that you continue to defend it. The Labour Inspectorate still finds faults in 85% of the controlled workshops, where things don't happen as they should. You are thinking with the National Security Council, with pressure from all over Europe, of getting companies to start up again on 4 May. It's obvious that people want to go back to work. They urgently need money and also lack social contacts with their colleagues. However, restarting must be possible in a safe manner throughout Europe. The experts make it clear that if we are now all going to work back to run the economy, we are going to pump the hospitals again within two weeks. Madam Prime Minister, I would therefore like to ask you what you will defend: that profits are more important than the health of our workers, or not? If the companies start up again, the experts propose not to reopen all the companies at once. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u10	I have to apply the speaking time strictly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u11	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, some people really want to see a great ideological agenda in this debate right now, but I think it is pure logic that is needed to find a just solidarity within the European Union without raising it to irresponsibility. Mr van Grieken, I understand that in this context, of course, you are not in favour of solidifying maladministration. We are not going to reward countries that have not taken responsibility in the past for putting their budgets in order and putting them into practice. Of course, as a liberal, I am not in favour of this either. I do have the next warning. The European construction has given us enormous prosperity. Belgium is an exporting country par excellence, which owes its economy and prosperity to the single European market. We must also be very aware that what is happening to us now is very exceptional; this has not happened in Western Europe for decades. If we now take a firm position and do not want to bear any responsibility for helping in the difficult circumstances of certain countries today, without showing any solidarity for what is happening now apart from the past, and with which everyone is exceptionally confronted, so if we do not even leave that opening, then we will undermine the entire European construction in the long term, because that will leave traces in the long term. Our country will be a great loser in itself if the internal market is compromised, if the currency union is compromised and if European cooperation is compromised. That is why we are open to a reasonable approach to this story, without falling into the solidarisation of past debts built up in an irresponsible way. Let us make that distinction. It is now about the current crisis. The consequences of the current crisis must be decided jointly with the European countries in order to help each other. The past is another account that we are not taking into account today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, what is the strangest aspect of this crisis in Europe? After two months of major health and economic crisis, we see hardly any difference in the behaviour of Europe and its leaders with the period before. You are going to a meeting where there will be no conclusions and where no mandate will be given, because that is too difficult. Europe is acting as if there is no crisis, which is indeed the biggest health and economic crisis of the last 90 years. Prime Minister, are you prepared to knock on the table later, something Belgium has often done, and to say that Europe must become a responsible player that makes a difference? If even the Liberals are now calling for solidarity, they are doing so because it is necessary. It is not a question of great equalness or ideology; we are facing a huge crisis which is seriously affecting the health of the population, the self-employed and businesses. Are you prepared to say that it is enough and that Europe must stop acting like there is no crisis? We don't see the European President anywhere. Of all the magic tricks he's learned, he's obviously mastered the big vanishing act best. I have a few specific questions about this role of Europe. Should the debt of the crisis be mutated? Our opinion is that this must be done effectively. After all, we need peace and trust, and Belgium also has every advantage if we can restore peace at European level. Do you agree? Should Europe ensure a strong social leg, a social pillar, and strengthen health care everywhere? For sp.a, the answer is yes. What's your opinion on that? Should Europe not have allowed politics to protect and test rather than the market for much longer? We think so. We must now do this very urgently. I would also like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u13	Mr President, although I am in the opposition, I would like to say that the attacks by Vlaams Belang against the Prime Minister are deplorable! These are ad hominem attacks, under the belt! They are deplorable because they are against the office of Prime Minister and therefore against all Belgian citizens. In short, it is the zero level of politics! Madam Prime Minister, in the context of this pandemic, we have seen that Europe has been a single and great cluster at the global level. In recent weeks, it has been shown that when Member States put forward an uncoordinated strategy, in isolation, there is a great deal of loss in terms of efficiency for citizens. We believe that we are at a turning point for the European future, with five major projects that can and should be launched: a European recovery plan as massive as possible, a relocation of a strategic economy – the crisis has shown how much our dependence on Asia for medical equipment and medicines is far too important – helping the countries most in difficulty to obtain a loan at favourable rates through a common loan, coordinating themselves on decoupling, including on intra-European traffic, and finally the need to strengthen the common crisis management capacity at European level. These sites – although there may be others – are vital! Madam Prime Minister, what position are you going to defend at this European summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your flexibility. Indeed, I have to attend the meeting of EU leaders at 3 p.m. this afternoon. Today's summit obviously has to do with the current crisis, and certainly with its approach in financial and economic terms. On 9 April, the Eurogroup managed to reach a formal agreement on a package of measures that will shape a three-pronged strategy for the EU to get out of the crisis: for business, for employees and for the self-employed, and for national budgets. I said that last week. This agreement will be proposed to the European Council today for confirmation. The other aspect of the discussion, as I have said, will be the economic recovery strategy. In this context, in fulfilment of the mandate given to them at the previous Council, the President of the Council and the President of the Commission sent us a road map based on the principles of unity, solidarity and convergence, which are principles dear to the European Union. The road map provides a framework for discussion and an action plan focusing on four main themes. As I have indicated to you, no formal decision will be taken today. The first point concerns the internal market. The health crisis has, as we know, a serious economic impact. It is therefore essential that we consider reviving the European economy. This must go through the Green Deal and the digital agenda. The European Commission will have to present us with a more detailed programme in this direction. I repeat that Belgium believes that the Green Deal and the digital agenda should be seen as opportunities to develop our economic model rather than as a hindrance. The second point is the most difficult. It is important to mobilise a substantial investment package to support the European economy in today's difficult times. It is proposed to work simultaneously on two pillars, namely the next MFF and the creation of a recovery fund. The concrete modalities are already under intense discussion. The President of the European Commission must quickly come forward with more concrete proposals. The President of the European Council will, of course, have to make compromise proposals. The debate on the distribution of debt is particularly controversial. Another important point is the balance between using grants and/or loans, which does not have the same budgetary impact. In the absence of detailed proposals, Belgium has not yet taken an official position on the distribution between loans and debts. In any case, we should also look at the possible budgetary impact of the proposal. Belgium also supports the integration of a recovery fund within the MFF (Multiennial Financial Framework), which must be reoriented, of course, because of the crisis. The MFF that was presented to us before the crisis can no longer be the same after the crisis. We are still waiting for concrete proposals to assess effectiveness and make a final decision. I remind you that this is an informal debate. We are not yet in the decision-making stage. In any case, we will keep a critical eye on the relationship between, on the one hand, the additional efforts to be made by the Member States in terms of contribution and, on the other hand, the economic and budgetary situation of those same Member States. We will, of course, do the same for the way in which we request or propose to apply the European rules which are now binding on budgetary discipline. We believe that too strict application of these rules, which are not called into question, would not be in line with the challenges we face. I come to the issue of mutualization of debts, which is very important. As you know, Belgium is open to the concept, but we know that minds are not mature. We also know that the implementation and operationalization of this concept takes a lot of time. It cannot therefore be the first answer to all the difficulties. The first answer is in this three-point strategy that I developed last week. The fundamental stumbling block is, of course, that this mutualisation of debt must help, but not create excessive debt, nor, in the medium term, an even more difficult situation at European financial level than it is today. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that solidarity between Member States is always synonymous with improvement for all. And I see that in this assembly again, but not only here, some are still trying to play the oppositions, to stand against each other. I hear the South against the North, the Francophones against the Dutch speakers. Whole sections of society would have gone up against each other, to score a political point. I say that this is not worthy of the magnitude of this deep crisis. And I will tell you: we will not be distracted by this type of intervention. Indeed, we will continue to combine our forces, in the South, in the North, Francophones, Dutch-speaking, German-speaking, to find solutions for the benefit of all, and even for the benefit of those who try to divide us. [[Applause]] Thank you. As far as the third point of the EU's external action is concerned, you know that we are going to discuss everything that is part of the partnership with Africa. Multilateralism is an integral part of Belgian diplomatic DNA. Support for the strengthening of multilateral consultations is therefore absolutely evident. For Africa, we want to take a concrete look at what the Commission is proposing to us. The fourth point concerns governance and resilience. We must indeed learn lessons from this crisis and work towards greater strategic autonomy without falling into protectionism. The difficulties with masks and medical equipment are significant in this respect. We also need to improve crisis prevention and crisis management within the European framework and to increase response capacity. In this context, the issue of European values must be reaffirmed. It is true that, in our situation, we must be able to demonstrate that democratic States, with full respect for fundamental values, are capable of meeting the challenges of this crisis. As we have seen, the latter has also highlighted weaknesses in the functioning of the European institutions, particularly in terms of purchasing capacity for the Member States. We have seen great difficulties, a lot of rigidity, which prevent us from moving forward. We have also seen selfish reflexes within the European Union, which is not at all in line with the values we are defending. This does not correspond at all to what we have committed ourselves to this beautiful adventure of Europe. We will therefore ask the European Commission to make a proposal so that this kind of unfortunate episode can no longer be repeated. We hope, of course, that we will no longer experience a crisis like the one we are currently facing, but we never know! Even outside of crises, this selfishness and self-restraint should not be able to reproduce, in any case as they have manifested themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u15	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, you say that we should not fall in North versus South, but it was you who signed a letter with eight southern countries against other countries. People expect strong action from Europe and unfortunately we have not yet seen it. The dossier will be sent from the European Council to the Finance Ministers and again to the European Council, and it will probably now go to the European Commission. However, there are many concrete things that need to be done now. You mentioned, among other things, the internal market. That is indeed something very important. We need to take measures for an efficient internal market. After all, we have seen that the protective equipment at the borders was stopped, and that is unacceptable within Europe. We must also make Europe less dependent on other powers. There too, I refer to the protective equipment. We must ensure that we can produce it ourselves in Europe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, thank you. I think you feel the urgency. Indeed, Europe has never experienced such a crisis since the Second World War. And yet, it is the seventh European Council in a few weeks. I believe that we cannot renew the experience of the past of prolonging old disputes between Member States because citizens do not have time to wait. SMEs, self-employed people, investors, small businesses don't have time to wait. They expect a much stronger move from Europe in favour of green and sustainable investments for the transition. Madam Prime Minister, as ecologists, we would like to ask you to draw inspiration from all these voluntary seamstresses across the Union and to ask for solidarity from the heads of state of the Twenty-Seven to commit the European Union to this new green and solidarity path.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, in the world that will never be the same again, Europe will have to, without wasting time – that is the problem – play an important role for a society that is more human, more sustainable and more supportive of the rest of the world. In particular, you have spoken about Africa. As Belgians, we must be the engines in the camp of those who want to implement this Europe and move forward in this more human Europe, this human Europe. Madam Prime Minister of the Belgian Government, we are counting on you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u18	Thank you for your answer, Madam Prime Minister. I would like to give you one more thing before you go to the European summit. You know that my party is a cool lover of the European Union, but if that Union is of one use, it is an economic block. It must remove internal borders, remove economic barriers and make an international fist. How long will we allow Chinese companies with state aid, which do not have to comply with the same working conditions or the same environmental standards, to buy into strategic sectors here? How long will the European Union allow us to continue outsourcing our macro-economy to third world countries and to China? If the European leaders still have one more chance of managing the health crisis, they have already been mismanaged to show their usefulness, it is now, by drawing a line in the sand and saying: up to here and no further. We have to keep the companies here. We ourselves must be able, for example, to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u19	Prime Minister, I am not going to advertise here the odious attacks of Vlaams Belang. As we know, union, talent and involvement are a source of bitterness among extremists, who also feed on divisions. Let's go by the way! The Union is often at the centre of criticism, but it acts. For example, it has mobilised billions of euros to the Member States and coordinated its efforts to repatriate as many as 500,000 Europeans stranded around the world. It funds 18 projects and 151 teams engaged in the search for a vaccine against VOCID-19. Of course, discussions are continuing and divisions are emerging on the mutualization of debt – to which you say you are not opposed in principle. However, given the urgency, efficiency must remain fundamental. May this signal bring together all Europeans! The crisis of the VOCID-19 is simply exceptional and implies, whether we like it or not, a minimum of solidarity, without succumbing to gabegia. Prime Minister, we trust you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, resilience is very important in all areas, especially in this unprecedented crisis. Europe has a move to make. We must therefore make every effort to achieve a European relaunch strategy, as you yourself pointed out. This is fundamental for the European countries, but certainly also for the inhabitants of those countries. At the same time, it is also an historic opportunity for Europe to prove its usefulness and to make a start, with, of course, the important principles of solidarity and responsibility, to which you referred, but also with courage, vision and ambition for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u21	Madam Prime Minister, I hope that you will put the question of solidarity in Europe to your Italian colleague and hear from whom they have had support. They will reply very quickly from which countries they have received support. However, that is a completely different story. What is very important to get out of this crisis is to realize that the working people are creating prosperity: they are the engine of the economy. If we are to get out of the crisis in Europe, the working class must be able to get back to work safely. It must be provided with the necessary protective equipment from the public authorities and, where appropriate, from the employer. There must be protective equipment before this impasse can be overcome. It is quite clear that people want to work, but if we do this badly, it will not benefit the economy. Then we use the working people as slaughter cattle for the profits of the large companies (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, the European Union faces a huge challenge that is crucial to its survival. We must now be able to show that, in this deep crisis, we can indeed offer solutions from the European level. This will require efforts from those countries which have the means to do so effectively in solidarity. Mr Crombez, solidarity does not come as a blank cheque. Lessons will also have to be drawn from what has happened and the budgetary situation of the various countries will have to be taken into account. If we compare the current crisis with that of 2008, which was one of the financial institutions, there is one lesson that countries need to remember: it helps to cope with shocks in difficult times by putting the budget in order in good times. I hope that we will be able to take that statement across party boundaries if the debate on the budget is to take place in the committees, where I am hearing a lot of expenditure today, which will have to be put together later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. There were very good elements in that. It's April 23rd now. If Europe will set out guidelines, make decisions and make decisions, I ask you to make your voice heard with the message that Europe must now seize the moment to ask for solidarity, to raise the social pillar and to ensure investment and protection. It is true that the budgetary situation will always be looked at. That is the right thing to do, but, Mr Lachaert, we are not looking at Belgium as a country that went into the crisis with a good budgetary situation. Madam Prime Minister, I also welcome your reference to the fact that Africa is also on the agenda, a subject on which we had a good debate with Minister De Croo yesterday. It seems that a crisis is needed to establish the need to invest in health and education systems and not to save on them. Fortunately, we have such systems. Let us, through this solidarity, ensure that such systems are put in place in those countries as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. All too often we forget what Europe has brought to us, and we also minimize far too much what the European future can bring to every citizen. Basically, some see solidarity as a form of weakness, giving the impression that each of the strongest Member States will fall back. I think the other way around. Studies have shown this well. Solidarity between Member States also makes it possible to draw each Member State up and bring added value for each Member State, including Belgium. Even if today's summit is not a decision-making one, I dare hope that Belgium's position will not be in the camp of the goat-choutists, but, on the contrary, in that of the ambitious, first and foremost for the future of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the topical debate on the European summit. I am happy that we were able to hold the debate less than an hour before that European summit. I refer to countries such as the Netherlands and Germany, where the Heads of State or Government are also in touch with their parliaments. That is an important democratic asset for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u26	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the National Security Council will meet tomorrow and will determine the stages of the deconfination. Above all, we must be careful not to compromise the health of our citizens, but also not to undermine all our efforts. To this end, experts agree at least on two things: the wearing of the mask by the entire population, but also large-scale testing and the quarantine of all positive cases. On these two subjects, we have been sharing the findings, concerns and questions of the population for weeks. We've been getting either half-answers or ambivalences for weeks. On the subject of testing, Minister De Backer promised us three weeks ago that 10,000 tests per day would be carried out, knowing that this remains largely insufficient to cover the entire population. Today, we are still not there! Last night, we learned that despite the difficulties we face, the tests will still be expanded, to the exclusion of all those who are not caregivers, in hospitals or in residential communities. With regard to masks, the National Security Council of 15 April recommended that the fabric mask be worn to the entire population when social distancing is difficult to observe, but also with a view to defining. On this subject, the Minister of Justice assured us yesterday that a production line was being launched, but it will only concern fabrics, so it will be up to the municipalities to manage once again. He also assured us that consultation had taken place with the associations of the cities and communes. However, this consultation still does not seem to have taken place since these associations still demand it. Prime Minister, what is your specific strategy for wearing the mask by the public, but also for conducting large-scale screening tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u27	Madam Prime Minister, after six weeks, everyone craves freedom. We do that here, too. If the exit strategy covers the key words one and a half meters of society in safety and health, I absolutely agree. But not all of our activities fit into such a society. That is why we are increasingly hearing that mouth masks will be used. The question of De Lijn, STIB and SNCB to require the wearing of mouth masks if one cannot guarantee the distance of one and a half metres is justified. However, communication and the approach in this area are all imaginary. Suddenly there are three ministers of mouth masks and I see no results. I read that the government hopes to appeal to people who make mouth masks at home. I also read that Minister Noodles is asking for patience. My mom's been with the sewing machine, cotton and elastic for weeks. She has already made a thousand mouth masks on her own, not for everyone on public transport, but for the caregivers in the first line, who remained in the cold. Like my mom, there are a lot of volunteers out there, because the government doesn't give home. Surely we will not build our exit on these initiatives, may I hope? Where's the strategy? Where is the coordinated approach? It can't be that as a resident of As I get mouth masks and the neighbours of Houtsberg, for example? If we need millions of mouth masks on 3 May 2020, we must now take action. There's no more patience. I share Professor Van Ranst's opinion on the leak in connection with the proposal to the National Security Council. How will you try to prevent such leaks? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u28	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, last week you were as proud as a peacock when you announced the first relaxation, namely that the DIY business and garden centres could be reopened. But once again you were hopelessly late with your communication, which was chaotic and unclear. Many cases had prepared themselves for a reopening, had called on staff and took action, but had to know the night before the reopening that they were not allowed to reopen. In fact, one day the Coronaline tells informant entrepreneurs that their business can be opened, while two days later it has to close by order of the Minister of the Interior. It's like a real charade. After your government has already made our consumers' shopping cart 10% more expensive in some cases, you are now opening the door to unfair competition. Can you justify why things that sell the same products as the companies that are already opening should not be reopened, while they can perfectly follow all the directives? Why should a paint shop not open when the same products are sold in a DIY case that is allowed to reopen? The explanation for that is not far away. Unlike countries such as the Netherlands, Germany and Austria, which have long had an exit plan in their possession, you are still nowhere. Here and there some fragments are leaked, causing even more confusion and chaos among the population. Where's your playbook? How do you explain that leak, by the way? At what stage will the economy start? Next time, will you be able to communicate in a timely and clear manner? What perspective can you offer today to our companies and our people? How will you ensure that there are no more blunders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days and weeks we have done a lot of serious work. We stayed in our barn, and it looks like the virus is getting under control. That is a good thing. I hope that soon we will all be able to enjoy our freedom a little more. That also means: a little more freedom to go shopping. Until today, only the essential food business, and recently also the garden centers and the DIY business were opened. That was a difficult but necessary decision of your government, Madam Prime Minister. I would like to congratulate you on that. However, that has also ensured that there is an uneven playing field today. At the cash register of the grocery store are flowers for sale today, while the flower shop should stay closed a little further in the street. Tyre plants, garages, dentists and hairdressers can work by appointment all year round, and they do so too. Clothing stores, decoration shops and bicycle shops never have more than four or five people in their store all year round. They can perfectly organise and control the rules on social distancing. In recent weeks they have rightly received support from your government and also from the Flemish Government, but they need perspective to be able to do business again, to do what they do best. Let us not forget that it is the entrepreneurs and their employees who are helping to finance our health and care system. Madam Prime Minister, it is important that the prospects for economic restart are equal and fair. Our group would therefore like to urge the National Security Council to pay a great deal of attention to this tomorrow. I have two questions for you: will all entrepreneurs, shops and liberal professions open quickly and at the same time? Will there be a clear framework within which each entrepreneur can organise and control safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, the National Security Council will meet tomorrow. Our country has been in lockdown for six weeks now and it seems that this result is starting to yield. After the many messages and messages about what is no longer allowed, people need a future perspective, an exit strategy. They want to know what they will be allowed to do and under what conditions. The mouth masks will play a role in the exit strategy. They must be available to everyone. It should not depend on the municipality where one lives whether or not one is given a mouth mask. Some municipalities have already taken an initiative, others have not. It should not depend on whether or not people will make mouth masks themselves. My question is very simple: will the federal government ensure that every citizen has a safe enough mouth mask at his disposal? Will the federal government be coordinating this? There is also a reflection on rebooting the companies. Do not underestimate workers' concerns: will they be able to work in full safety and with proper protection? But also practical: if they have to go back to work tomorrow and the children do not go to school yet, who will look after the children? The grandparents are not an option here either, because they are not allowed to receive the children. I ask you to take all these concerns to the National Security Council tomorrow and to clarify them quickly. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. The fact that the experts' note is being leaked may not help you personally. The fact that ministers come every day before the National Security Council meets, creates confusion and confusion. I therefore ask you to take up your role as leader of this group and to ensure that the communication and decisions that will be taken remain clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u31	Madam Prime Minister, you are becoming the ice queen of chaos. We are now world champion in the number of deaths due to corona and you began to cheat with the statistics. Last week you came here in the afternoon to say that the residential care centers could receive visitors and in the evening our old people had to go back on a lonely barf. A month ago, you said that the masks were of little or no use, and now we all need to buy one. In the meantime, you have also become the lobbyist of the big players. The garden centers of the Boerenbond may open, but one cannot buy a bouquet in a flower shop. One may score a flat screen in the Carrefour, but not in a specialized electrical store. One can put clothes in the Makro, but not in a boutique. One can buy paint in the Hubo and the Gamma, but not in the small treatment. Because of the short-sighted favoritism of your mispolicy, 125,000 self-employed people are on the lips. They are on the verge of bankruptcy, and that now applies to one self-employed person out of six. Seven out of ten companies say they can't last another month. One and a half million people are in unemployment. Lockdown every week costs us 3 billion euros. It is time for an exit scenario from our economic intensive care. In Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Denmark the economy is being set in motion. Their lockdown was much less strict and yet they have far fewer victims than we do. Prime Minister, open the shops here too before corona closes them permanently. When will you stop hiding behind the back of all kinds of virologists and experts? When will you yourself turn off your mouth mask to clear guidelines (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u32	Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we move away from the peak of the health crisis, our attention must indeed shift to an appropriate exit strategy and the revival of the economy. This requires a clear vision and communication, followed by a clear unity of command. Citizens and businesses must not be confused by excessive positions and discussions in the media. We're counting on you to watch over this. Over the last few weeks, the government has shown that it is taking vigorous action to minimise the damage caused by the health crisis and not to make it a financial disaster for families, businesses and the self-employed. It took measures such as the capital guarantee, deferment of payments, compensation and replacement income. As you know, loans and backlogs must be settled at a certain time. Our government is in the red on all levels. The account will not be tender, neither for business, nor for the government, nor for the taxpayer, whoever it is. That is why political courage is important, especially at a time when so many people can easily criticise themselves and perseverance is important to ensure that the economy returns to a normal growth rate. In this way, debts will not be passed on to the taxpayers of tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Debt securities are of course very important for companies, but equally essential is sound solvency. This means that companies can rely on sufficient own resources for their working capital to invest. These resources are now severely affected for many small and medium-sized enterprises, as a result of this crisis, the compulsory closure and the loss of turnover. The granting of loans is facilitated, but I also ask the Prime Minister (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u33	Prime Minister, the fight against the spread of VOCID-19 requires an ongoing fight. First of all, I would like to welcome the courageous measures and the difficult choices made by the National Security Council in the course of the crisis and, as we will never repeat enough, to greet all those who act as true heroes of this crisis. I would also like to thank the people for all their efforts on a day-to-day basis. The health signs of the last few weeks have been encouraging. This success was made possible thanks to an adapted strategy, carried out in consultation with the Länder and with the various experts. However, the fight against the spread of the virus is a marathon. There are positive signs that we are winning, but the virus has not yet been overcome. It is now important to phase out the lockdown measures. Tomorrow, the National Security Council will discuss in detail the strategy to be applied to this end. Mr Dedecker, comparing countries is a dangerous shortcut. We can make the numbers say what we want. Each country experiences a specific situation and reacts according to its particular situation. Madam Prime Minister, with a view to definity, do you have any first elements to share with us on the proposed strategy? Will this strategy take place in different phases? Will wearing the mask be part of the debunking strategy? With regard to reopening, which sectors will be covered by the de-consolidation strategy in order to avoid possible situations of unfair competition between sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u34	Mrs Dock, you were a member of the Walloon Parliament, so it is not entirely correct, but in the Federal Parliament it was your maiden speech in two languages, for which congratulations. [[Applause]] Mr De Roover, I assume you're sticking to your language.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u35	Mr President, my speech will go against my predecessor's, without any doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, the word exit is not out of the blue here. I hope that we can overcome the contradiction between economics and health, because there is no contradiction. Let us not forget, however much logic there is, that a lockdown also makes sick. We are thinking, for example, of the mental health of many people sitting at home today, as it were, locked up. Each week, the costs to be borne by the government are also increasing. The question will come as to who saves or who will have to pay taxes and in what combination. So the exit is much needed. I would like to ask you to make sure that no artificial distinction is made, as perhaps has been the case in recent days and weeks, because today there are many people in the retail trade who feel themselves the slaughter cattle of the difference that is being made between one case and the other. If we want to do this activation in healthy conditions, and if we want to do it in a healthy way, that is crucially important and take everyone's concerns seriously, then of course we are talking about testing capacity and mouth masks. I am very pleased that now that the awareness has become common that mouth masks can make sense. There has been some doubt about this in the past. Can you provide guarantees that it can be done in healthy conditions, Madam Prime Minister? Can you ensure that we do not get a situation of unfair competition when the lockdown is opened and can you ensure that our economy can recreate as soon as possible the substance on which a health policy can be implemented, i.e. by making activation possible again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u36	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the report of the expert group has therefore been published in the press. Even though the National Security Council has not yet met, it must be noted that ministers declare that they will choose another date and that they will take certain measures. Let me tell you – by refraining from commenting on everything that has been achieved by the panel of experts – that if we want to be effective, we need citizens to adhere to the positions that will be taken. To do so, they must be clear, solid and unanimous. This is obviously your responsibility. If your government assumes another overwhelming responsibility, it is the responsibility of providing the necessary guarantees to control the virus, so as to avoid rebounds after the confinement has been released. These guarantees are threefold. First, it is a question of extinguishing the outbreaks of epidemics that persist in some rest homes and elsewhere. All energy must be deployed for this purpose. Secondly, it is important to maximize barrier measures. No, it is not normal that today some caregivers have still not received enough protective equipment. I think, for example, of the home nurses who are sometimes sent to the front by telling them that they should not even wear a mask, as Sciensano says. Yes, Madam Prime Minister, maximizing the barriers for our fellow citizens means adding the systematic wearing of the mask in public transport and shops. Again, it has to be available!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u37	You have to close, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u38	Finally, of course, we have to deal with the testing aspect. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, the National Security Council will meet tomorrow. I sincerely hope that people will communicate more clearly than last week. Last week we saw a dramatic form of communication that created more uncertainty and more questions than answers. When I see that there was a leak in the press yesterday, leaving the people with questions, I address you as the leader of this government. These are exceptional circumstances. We are aware that this is new to all of us. Despite the regrettable statements I have heard from you today, I would like to inform you that I do believe in your presidency, but that I do ask for more leadership. Give the people the peace they deserve. In the last few weeks, everyone has stayed in their quarters. We have tried to follow the measures as closely as possible. Now it is time to give people hope and an exit strategy with an explanation by target group, by sector, step by step if necessary, so that this can be clarified. Madam Prime Minister, what is the federal government's strategy plan for exit, especially when it comes to mouth masks? I have been informed that mouth mask filters will be delivered to the public. Is this true? I would have liked an answer to that by yes or no. Are these actually protective? Or do we give people a false sense of security? I would also like to call for a clear communication of the directives tomorrow. Is the government ready for that? In this case, delay is better than bad information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u40	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister. Madam Prime Minister, if you can do that, I ask you to respect the ten-minute timing. Then there will be a one-minute reply for the more than ten speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for several days now the indicators that allow us to monitor the evolution of the VOCID-19 have been encouraging. We note that the reproductive number of coronavirus (R-value) is on average 0.8. This means that a sick person infects an average of 0.8 other people. This R value was 2 or 3 before the announcement of measures taken to limit the spread of the virus. Since the onset of the crisis, 9,800 hospitalized persons have also been able to leave the hospital. This is the result of the hard work of many of our fellow citizens. We thank them for that. However, we must not relax our efforts, because we know that the situation remains very fragile. Wearyness, anxiety, lack of loved ones, or sunny weather may cause us to be less vigilant, considering that a small sprain to containment may not be so serious. And yet, every act we pose can have consequences for ourselves, but also for our loved ones. The health data show that non-compliance with the measures usually results in an increase in hospitalizations two weeks later. It is therefore essential to continue to respect the measures decided upon. It is equally important to isolate yourself from the first symptoms while waiting for the doctor's advice. As you know, the National Security Council extended to Ministers-Presidents decided last Wednesday to extend the general containment and social distancing measures until 3 May, while providing for some relaxations in order to make confinement more sustainable on a daily basis. A new meeting of the National Security Council will be held tomorrow. The objective is to develop, on the basis of the recommendations of the EGE, a step-by-step plan for a gradual deconfination. This plan will have to strike the right balance between the preservation of health, whether physical or mental, the fulfilment of the mission of pedagogy, the economic revival and of course the maintenance of social well-being and the protection of the most fragile. Priority will always be given to the health of our citizens. The health situation will therefore be monitored closely. It will condition the transition from one stage to the next. This means, and we must be very clear about it, that a reversal is never excluded. That is the very philosophy of the work we are doing. If, at some point, it appears that the spread of the virus is no longer under control, we will have to reverse. And I'll tell you, we'll want to back off! We will have to rely on scientific expertise, as well as some flexibility in implementation, in order to stay as close as possible to reality on the ground. After all, our ability to predict the impact of a number of measures is limited. So we will have to go step by step, gradually, depending on the situation on the ground; that is very important. A lot of information has been leaked to the press, which, of course, I regret, given what is at stake. This is not only disrespectful of the work that we have all done together, but above all completely irresponsible to the people. The phasing-out is a very delicate operation and we cannot afford to cloud our message to the people. As I have told you, the strategy of deconfining is very delicate. Not only has Belgium never had to develop this type of strategy, and that is so much better, but it also concerns all parts of our society, namely the organisation of education, health, the organisation of work, the opening up or not of shops, the organisation of our social life and even, in a certain way, our private life. These are all points on which the population – I understand it – wishes to receive perspectives very quickly, but also guarantees. I am already warning that we will be able to give prospects, but that, on the other hand, we will not be able to give guarantees. Indeed, the deconfination will be apprehended as the health situation evolves. With regard to the measures to be taken with regard to businesses, we want all businesses to be placed on an equal footing and to be able to restart with the same chances of success, regardless of their size or the nature of their activity. More comprehensively, the federal and federated entities have taken a series of measures to mitigate as much as possible the economic impact of the crisis on citizens, workers and businesses. These measures have largely responded to the immediate and unprecedented consequences of this major economic shock, but this is, of course, not enough. The prospect of a debunking will gradually allow the economy to restart. However, we will, of course, have to support the latter by putting in place new arrangements, which will, of course, be done as the situation changes again. Decisions on the next steps will be taken within the National Security Council. I would like to point out here that these decisions will be taken only in this context and only at that time, and therefore not in the press, not through leaks, not through interviews. The National Security Council decides. If you wish to be attentive, if only once, it is at the end of this Council that it will have to be. Three aspects will be particularly important in the context of the exit strategy: wearing a mouth mask, testing and tracing. Mouth masks will play a very important role in the phasing-out strategy. As for other aspects, I cannot at this stage comment on the positions that will be taken tomorrow in consultation with the other entities. The issue will be decided in the National Security Council, in the presence of the Prime Ministers of the Länder, who are responsible for prevention policy. In any case, the rules must be the same for the whole country. At federal level, we are already working on the development of means to support people when they want to protect themselves individually. In this respect, we have taken careful note of the conclusions of the RMG and of the GEES in their reports today, as well as of the concerns of the various sectors. In addition, many fabrics masks have been made locally in recent weeks thanks to the citizens' initiatives. That is a good example of solidarity. The question of testing was also asked. It is subject to constant analysis by the RMG, as you know. The RMG must, of course, adapt its procedures as it evolves. The goal is, of course, to test as many people as possible, starting with those who absolutely need it, i.e. people with influenza symptoms, hospital staff and patients, staff and residents of nursing and nursing homes, but also other communities, since the world does not end there. I think my colleague Maggie De Block will come back to this issue. I'll end with the tracing, Mr. President. Although tracing is a regional competence, all initiatives in this area need to be well coordinated between the different entities. The federal level can certainly provide support to help them succeed. There is a lot of discussion about the development of an app. If the regions choose to develop such an app, the federal government will provide support, certainly in terms of the legislative framework. This will certainly have to be debated in Parliament. Mr De Backer will certainly give more details on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u42	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You're talking about perspectives and guarantees. I would just like to stop giving people false hopes. If it is announced that the mask should be worn, if massive screening is promoted, you must be able to do so, at least for people who are at least symptomatic, as you said. You have recalled our test target, but you still do not answer the question of how to meet this target, while the World Health Organization, since 23 January 2020, has been promoting mass screening of the population. Prime Minister, I am very disappointed with your answers. I hear caution in your remarks and thank you for that. But I also wanted to hear more proactive comments because that is what the population expects. We need prospects for the future, but also answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u43	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, we have given you and your government the confidence to guide us through the current crisis. However, this confidence must not be undermined, certainly not by political profiling. The crisis is not over yet, far from it. We now need unity of command, which goes beyond regretting leaks, supporting volunteers or making recommendations. Madam Prime Minister, you will have a new opportunity tomorrow after the National Security Council to address our people with unity of command and the empathy that you are. Claim that leadership that everyone in this crisis needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u44	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, as always, you are not answering our questions. This government stands for chaos and indecision. Look at other countries that do have a clear exit plan. You, Madam Prime Minister, are not the leader of the people, but you let our people, her economy and her businesses suffer. Your first test with the do-it-yourself business was a big flop. One blunder after another builds up. Your so-called working groups, which prepare the exit, are as leaky as a sieve and create uncertainty. You communicate too late and create unfair competition through your unclear plans. Because of your indecision, you are in the pockets of our people, who have no view of when they can go back to work. You are also in the pockets of our companies, which can perfectly open. Madam Prime Minister, I sincerely hope that the piled up blunders of recent weeks will not be a harbinger of a new economic agony.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Colleagues, the traders, the entrepreneurs, in the church street or the village street of each municipality, form the economic heart of our society. They want to do again what they are good at doing. We Liberals believe that this should be possible on a level playing field. Equality for all enterprises. So no more exceptions for one and not for the other. If that happens, and if there is a clear framework for organizing social discrimination for the small self-employed, they will be the first to organise and monitor it properly and properly. Clothing business even wants to start working by appointment in their start-up phase. They really want to do that, but they want to work! We trust, Madam Prime Minister, that all traders, all shops, all entrepreneurs can get to work quickly, that they can get to work simultaneously, and that they will have clear rules to organise safety in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u46	Thank you for your reply, Madam Prime Minister. I am pleased to hear that you are following our call in your decision to take due account of the balance between work and private life. I am also pleased to hear that decisions must be taken together with the Communities and that everything must be looked at in its entirety. I'm also glad to hear that there should be mouth masks for everyone. What I am a little concerned about is that I hear you say that you will also count on citizens' initiatives to do so. I would like to call for every citizen to be given the same mask, with the same protection. It cannot be that one citizen is better protected than the other. If you decide tomorrow that every citizen should have a mouth mask, I sincerely hope that everyone will receive equal treatment and equal security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u47	I must congratulate you, ma'am. You are extremely consistent: you are very clear in your lack of clarity. You might want to think about it, ma'am, that health care goes hand in hand with the economy. Fortunately, we had a mole, so that the population still has some hope that something will happen in the future. I would like to reply briefly to Mrs Dock on the counterfeiting of statistics. I'll be brief and clear. In my municipality there are 4 residential centers, 358 old people are locked in there. I will hold wood: there is no contamination, no death by corona. There have been 12 deaths and they were passed on as natural deaths. They are also recorded by the Institute of Statistics. So stop throwing away your mischief behind falsifying the statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u48	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for putting the points on the i regarding communication. "Too many cooks spoil the sauce," especially if they spend too much time in the media. Do not hesitate to put some of them in confinement if they exaggerate! As an entrepreneur, I appreciate and appreciate all the people who are committed. After all, it is all too easy to make cassandra predictions and to formulate criticism. The social partners, employers and workers, have clearly expressed their desire to work. I would like to draw attention once again to the SMEs that are the driving force behind a truly sustainable economy. This attention is needed so that they too can restore their capital base. In doing so, we must help them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u49	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said, definity will require patience and measure, which you have always shown. Mr Dedecker, comparison is not right. Measurement! This will be done in stages and the strategy for its completion is based on several important complex elements. The balance is delicate. As you said, the choices made in the future will always be guided by the evolution of the health crisis. The health of our citizens remains a priority. We call for the collaboration of each level of power. Of course, everyone, at his level, will assume his or her responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u50	Madam Prime Minister, you are facing a difficult exercise. We can agree on that. However, the disk reboot is absolutely urgent for economic reasons. We must certainly not lose the link with the pace of our neighbouring countries, otherwise the manufacturing industry will suffer permanent damage. This is, on the one hand, a solidarity measure and we must ensure that the heavy invoice can be carried by as many shoulders as possible. It is, on the other hand, also a health measure, because I was not the only one here who pointed out the mental health of many people who are suffering today. After the decisions make sure that the communication is simple and clear. Do not drown in artificial demarcations that cause frustration to people who then feel unjustly treated because they are not allowed to open their cases and others do. Also rely on the common sense of employers and employees to deal constructively and safely with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u51	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You don't want to give guarantees, but in essence, your job and your duty is to ensure that the minimum minimorum is effective, and it is not. Indeed, today it is still impossible to detect from the slightest doubt because Sciensano's directives do not allow it. The freedom of the prescriber as announced two weeks ago is still not effective. We need to be able to track all the contacts. There is still a lot of work to be done to convince every citizen that if he or she is positive, he or she will have to isolate himself or herself. This will be a major issue in exiting confinement. In the same way, still today, where we should maximize protections, we are always just advising the wearing of the mask in public even though you should convince every citizen that it is in his or her interest and in the interest of everyone to wear it. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u52	I would like to stress once again that I believe in you as Prime Minister and I am confident that you will be able to help us through the crisis as a leader of the government. We've come a long way. I therefore hope that we will be able to offer the peace that the people seek in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u53	Madam Prime Minister, it's 2:55 p.m. You have a further question from Mr Hedebouw on the solidarity of ministers with the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday a fantastic initiative was launched by the port workers in Antwerp. They have decided to give part of their corona premium to ZNA Antwerp, which will buy some 40 tablets for corona patients in the hospital. Such solidarity gives me goose bumps. Why is this possible with dock workers, firefighters, bus drivers, cleaning women and shopkeepers? Why is this class solidarity not possible in the political world? That is why we have asked whether Members could not give up part of their monthly wages once in a while, out of solidarity with the corona patients. Why can't I? It happens in many other countries, such as Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece and Morocco. All these countries are taking such initiatives. Why is what is possible in those countries not possible in our country? We have tabled a proposal, but all parties, except Green, did not like it. CD&V, Open Vld, sp.a and Flemish Interest, they all didn't like that. They want to keep their money in their own pockets. No one stands up for solidarity. Why isn't that possible? PVDA has set a good example for itself. Our MEPs have paid EUR 140,000 of their wages. After all, one has to start with oneself first. Not words, but deeds. Madam Prime Minister, my question is quite clear. Is it not possible for the political world and the government to decide that part of their substantial wages would still go to the fight against the coronavirus? The press today says that Mr De Croo and Mr De Backer agree to submit this point to the Council of Ministers. What will be decided there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u55	Mr President, thank you for your question, Mr Hedebouw. I notice that you speak for Minister De Croo, whom I see he is surprised that you put certain words in his mouth. That does not happen the first time, but it is probably not a problem for you. In these difficult times, many citizens are indeed showing generosity and solidarity, including MEPs, government members and local elected representatives. They provide financial support to the main players in the fight against the coronavirus and they also help in other ways, which is also an opportunity to show support. It's everyone's complete freedom. What they do is indeed very varied, but they have one thing in common: they do it carelessly and without revealing it. Everyone thus continues to have freedom in making their own choices, according to their own honour and conscience. We must not advertise, however. Being in solidarity is something we live in. We can show solidarity by showing it to everyone. For my part, I know people who do much more without telling anyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u56	Madam Prime Minister, I am frankly disappointed in your answer. Indeed, I see that more and more parliaments and governments around the world are taking this decision, which is eminently political, since ministers and parliamentarians are thus demonstrating a public gesture of solidarity. When 30 to 40 per cent of the population loses enormously in terms of purchasing power – almost 50 per cent for the small independents – why could the political world not make a collective decision by reducing it for a month – that is the question! – his 50% salary? This is not a farfetched choice, as other assemblies have expressed it abroad. Moreover, in 2012, the House had decided to reduce the remuneration of MPs by 5 per cent for exactly the same reason. So this proposal is on the way. I find it a pity that such a taboo has been imposed on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u57	Please conclude, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u58	I would ask Ministers De Croo and De Backer to correct their comments in the columns of the South Press Group. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u59	Mr President, Minister, Jan Modaal fell off his chair again this week when he was told in the media that some 20 prisoners were allowed to leave the Hasselt prison. The reason for this was to avoid an outbreak of corona in prison. In view of the failing prison policy, this is not only the case in Hasselt, but also in a number of other prisons. As if that weren't enough, those inmates get a living wage, because they leave prison under the term "freed for reasons of fairness." How much more can one win the lottery? It is a slap in the face for all the people in this country who, during this severe crisis, have to live in the greatest uncertainty and do not know whether or not they will go under the financial heading. I know this is not a federal matter, but it is because of a federal choice that Flanders has to pay. Hence my clear question to you... are you going to repay the income that is now going to be paid back to those inmates? How will you arrange that? If they go back to prison, will they do work to repay that income?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u60	Mrs. Bury, there are two types of corona released. Firstly, there are those who are released with interruption of punishment, which means that they do not enjoy penitentiary leave, but are released with interruption of their sentence. So when they return, the days when they have been outside the prison do not count. These people have no right to a living wage under the legislation on social integration. It concerns the Royal Decree of 11 July 2002, Article 39. If they wish to receive assistance, they should address special social assistance to the OMCW, in particular to the Special Committee for the Social Service of the OMCW. So there is no provision for them. For them, what you have called "win the lottery" does not go on. It's about 411 people. Secondly, 180 people were released on parole six months before the end of their sentence, a little earlier than usual, as we used to do with foreigners without a residence permit. These people do receive a living wage, because it is awarded to them by the Royal Decree of 11 July 2002. I'll leave it to you to decide if that's the lotto win, but you have to understand that those people in prison get food and drink. A prisoner costs us an average of EUR 50,000 per year, but these costs will of course disappear if one is temporarily or permanently removed from prison, so perhaps that will compensate each other. However, I found the word "lotto" badly chosen in these times, because those people have to leave prison in order to save the prisons from overpopulation and create less risk of infection. That always happens under conditions and if one condition is not respected, then if I may use Mr De Block's words, they must go back to their quarters, but then a barf you would not like to sit in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u61	Minister, we may be in the process of developing prisons, but this has been done far too late, and that is why the prisons are now overcrowded. Now we have the fried pears and people have to be released. That's the big problem. I think it is a punishment that the population does not know whether it will survive this month or next month, while Flanders is now playing for Saint Nicholas. Because of your mischief, you must release prisoners now. We will call on you to do so even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u62	Minister, in good times corporate profits are for shareholders and in bad times citizens are being looked at to pay the bill. It was in 2008 and today it is. I think that's wrong. If we are to redistribute a few tens of billions to large business, I believe that a number of steel-hard conditions must be laid down. This is different from the liberal policy of the last 20 years. Some of the big companies are laughing at us squarely. Eight hundred Belgian companies parked 172 billion euros last year in tax havens. That's four times the amount needed to fight the corona crisis. It can't be that those companies would get support today. A company which has its registered office, a subsidiary or an account in a tax haven should not be able to rely on State aid. The PVDA has put in a bill for that. One cannot avoid taxes and at the same time apply for state aid. This was understood in Denmark; it was understood in Poland. The question, Mr De Croo, is whether we understand that in Belgium too. We must get rid of the capitalist model where the losses are for the many who have little, and the profits for the few who have a lot. Are you prepared as a minister to accept your responsibility and, contrary to the 2008 crisis, to impose tough conditions on large companies this time? I am thinking of, firstly, not paying dividends to shareholders, secondly, not paying bonuses to top managers, thirdly, not buying up own shares, fourthly, not a branch (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u63	The economic cost of the crisis is very high. The National Bank already estimates it at EUR 60 billion today. This means 10% of the added value created in our country. Our government has taken many measures to give companies more liquidity by taking over employees' wages, by postponing payment of taxes, by agreeing a moratorium with banks and by developing a guarantee scheme for new loans. For some companies that will not be enough and we will have to do more. I'm sure we'll do more, too. You refer to the example of other countries in terms of conditions. I don't need those other countries for that. Last week, I reached an agreement in the Council of Ministers on a draft law on flexibility in the advance payment of corporation tax, which will be discussed in Parliament next week and which imposes three conditions. In order to make use of the possibility, one should not pay dividends, buy shares or make capital reductions. I may not honk as much as policy-makers in other countries; we are certainly following the same reasoning. In the committee the day before yesterday I was asked the question about tax constructions. It seems absolutely logical to me that companies that use fiscal havens to avoid taxes in an obvious way should assume that we will take this into account if we have to take measures to save businesses. I would just like to make it clear that the contradiction you are always trying to create between companies and employees is really the last thing we need right now. What we need now is for companies and employees to work together. We will need the support of everyone to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u64	We will do everything in our power to tackle companies that use tax havens in an obvious way to evade taxes, you will reply. That's what we've been hearing for 20 years. Last year we saw the result of the fact that only obvious situations will be tackled: EUR 172 billion in profits will not be taxed. These are less revenue for the government, less income for care, less income to build up the welfare state, because a number of large companies are avoiding measures. That is why I ask the government to do a little more than just address the 'over-clearness'. I call for an active policy to address companies on the basis of three criteria, namely those that establish their company's head office in tax havens or have an account or a subsidiary there. That's a matter of action. After twenty years, it is time to act instead of just promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u65	Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed going to the exit phase. In the vague reply of the Prime Minister, I have heard that we will have to proceed disciplined and phased. That's right, of course. As politicians, we will have to guide and protect our people. The N-VA Group has already said at the beginning of this crisis that communication between the government and the field, in particular the local authorities and the care providers, is chaotic and rigid. Looks like you can't hear us. The local authorities indicate that they no longer want to read in the newspaper what guidelines are being issued. Even now there are no guidelines about wearing mouth masks in the exit phase. To avoid the chaos of previous decisions, many local authorities have already made a decision to buy mouth masks, in textiles and reusable or surgical, without a scientific directive, but because they want to take responsibility and pursue a policy. There's also been some confusion. First, the mouth masks wouldn't help. They'd help. Minister Geens then said that local authorities might be involved in the distribution. Apparently there has also been a communication between Minister De Backer and a number of liberal municipal authorities that would be fitted with mouth masks. They would even be divided by bpost. We wonder why not all the mayors are involved in this communication. We ask for clarity. Will mouth masks be mandatory? What scientific directive should those mouth masks comply with? It's not a fashion gadget. A mouth mask must protect. Local initiatives are very nice, but they have to protect. Who will pay them? Who will divide them? Minister De Backer, you've been saying for weeks that you'll go to 10,000 tests. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u66	Mrs Depoorter, we are now going to another stage in which we need to take measures to restart our economy and make our daily lives more normal. This requires a complex organisation, together with the Länder. This is not just about the masks and who to wear, something about which the advice of the RMG has now been published on the website of Sciensano. We must also ensure that the occupation in our hospitals does not increase again and that the number of infections does not increase again. A strategy has been drawn up for the next period, which will be proposed by the National Security Council tomorrow. You will understand that I do not want to get ahead of that. I am in favour of realism in this respect. Of course, not everything can be restarted at once, which is far too dangerous. Thanks to the efforts of all citizens, the curve is very flattened, but the virus is not gone and we know that it remains dangerous. It is important that we move forward step by step, but the last thing we want is to be flogged back. This has already happened in other countries, where there has been a new outcry. It is important to make the whole system of measures operational for the next phase. To this end, we must work together with the regions, the provinces and the municipalities. We must carefully move forward because we want to avoid the second wave that everyone fears. Since you are close to that, I will end with a Flemish proverb, namely caution is the mother of the porcelain shop.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u67	Minister De Backer, would you like to add something to this? If so, I will give Mrs Depoorter the double speaking time for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u68	I just want to add a few elements. In the meantime, we have conducted more than 180,000 PCR tests in Belgium. Yesterday we came up with over 8,000 tests a day. The capacity is much larger. That is why the directives were amended last night. Soon anyone who comes in or out of a care facility will be able to test new residents of collections, care staff with mild symptoms. The hospitals will also continue to test. So all these people will be able to be tested. From the moment the exit strategy starts, patients for whom the GP considers clinical trials are necessary will also be able to be tested on the basis of influenza-like symptoms. It's still the doctor who decides. That is why we are currently looking at how to set up contact tracing with the general practitioners and the triage centres. Then we can finally make full use of the full capacity built up through the different platforms, hospitals and clinical labs. I am absolutely convinced that to avoid a second wave all that test capacity together will be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your reply. I hope that the local authorities will finally clear up the masks tomorrow. Due to the fact that the federal government has already failed to take a decision on whether or not to wear mouth masks in the exit scenario, and has not communicated them to local authorities, the local authorities themselves have decided to order mouth masks. At least the local authorities could be consulted. Then they knew what they had to do. Then they could wait until the decision was made. The chaos created in recent days by the decisions is a chaos that the local authorities, the mayors who take responsibility for their people, do not want. They didn't have a scientific approach. They had no guidelines. I repeat: local initiatives are very nice initiatives, but our people must be protected. The concern of our N-VA group is directed at the whole population, not just at the mayors of the right color. We ask for consistent scientific guidelines, decisiveness in decisions, and consultation with local authorities. As far as the tests are concerned, Mr De Backer, you've been saying for weeks that you'd be testing more. I sincerely hope this is true now. We have a two-speed medicine. Whoever can pay goes to the GP for a test, who can't pay, has to wait. There is not enough testing. Your antigen tests aren't working either. You said that yourself in committee. In short, Minister, make sure that our doctors can test, that our mayors can take care of their people, and that everything is thought through and based on science.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u70	Mr President, Minister, ten days ago I asked you about the project to create a so-called "corona" application that a task force developed without any transparency. I expressed my deep concern that the enthusiasm for the creation of a mobile app, which was to help the deconfining strategy, could not have the perverse effect of tracing all our movements and violating our individual rights and freedoms. Nearly a week ago, last Friday, we were announced to prepare a strategy of progressive deconfining whose tracking would be a central axis, again without any guarantee being offered. Three days ago, on Monday, suddenly, the Regions were on the front line to have to organise the tracing and be ready for 4 May 2020, that is tomorrow. The Regions assume their responsibilities and have announced that they will put in place a humane follow-up of people infected with the pandemic as part of the debunking, a strategy without systematic tracking, without application, without registration of personal data and finally offering appeasement in terms of respect for individual rights and freedoms. We can only welcome this initiative. However, today, the federal government cannot completely dissipate itself from its responsibilities and must ensure a coordinating role. The pandemic is not a local, regional or federal problem. It is a virus that knows neither the boundaries nor the distribution of competences. So, Minister, how do you explain the federal government's a volte-face to its responsibilities over the Regions? Has the "corona" task force abandoned, yes or no, any idea of mobile application, which I would frankly be satisfied with. I repeat: we do not want an application that would threaten our fundamental rights and freedoms. Is it possible to have access to the report that would have been given to this task force? Will this work be presented to us? When? And, if the idea is to abandon a tracking application (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u71	Mr President, Minister, we met here two weeks ago. I told you that I would be standing there again if I were to worry again about the corona app. So here I am. I'm here because I don't understand it so well. By the end of March 2020 there was already a communication in the newspapers that there would be a corona app. On 6 April 2020, a newspaper article reported that tracing would be immediately linked to immunity tests as soon as they were taken. Those were the words of your spokeswoman. Two weeks ago, there was this application that was going to come. This week, however, I had to find out in the newspaper that there would be no app, or perhaps there would be. There might also be a Flemish, a Brussels or a Walloon app and maybe we would even work with multiple apps all over Belgium. Unclearness therefore trumps and therefore it is important to know what the future will bring, not least about the privacy terms of that possible app. Will the app be mandatory or not? Will the data be kept? How long have they been tracked? Is the application source code released or not? Is such an app necessary or not? What is your personal opinion on that? That's why my questions are next for you. What responsibility will you assume in your capacity as federal minister in the possible roll-out of a possible regional app? What minimum criteria will the apps have to meet to ensure the privacy of citizens who are rightly concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u72	Mr President, I would like to start by explaining clearly what contact research actually means. Contact research means that at the time of a positive test, an attempt is made to identify the close environment and contacts of that person in order to prevent the spread of the virus. This has been happening almost manually for decades. The doctor asks who the person concerned has contacted, after which those persons will be contacted. Those persons are then asked to carry out a test in order to stop the spread of the virus. That has always been the basis of the contact investigation, which will also be the case with the current epidemic. That has always been my starting point. Technology can't replace that. Technology might be a tool. Therefore, the Task Force has effectively spoken to a number of organisations that were willing to develop such an app, especially with universities and non-profit organisations, who wanted to work such an app on a voluntary basis and with an open source code. On the other hand, it is always as clear as tracing people is a competence of the Regions. It is therefore up to them to organize and agree, although there will of course be support from the federal government, which will make certain tools available to them for the implementation of this effort. To get to work on this, it is quite clear to me that it is a question of cooperation between the various authorities. Contact research should be set up in the regions and the federal government should be prepared to participate in this through the eHealth platform and decentralised call centres. This makes it clear where the responsibilities of everyone lie. The federal level is also responsible for providing the framework if one wants to use such an app. The federal level will determine the conditions and criteria, including the protection of privacy and open source. Of course, the installation of such an app will take place on a voluntary basis. People cannot be forced to do so. Nor can we oblige people, if they have already installed the app, to pass on information, because that requires a further step in which people voluntarily cooperate. All these matters will be included in the federal framework. It will then be up to the regions and organisations to develop an app within that framework. When one or more apps come on the market, they will need to be able to communicate with each other. That will be one of the conditions. It is a nonsense to have different applications that cannot communicate with each other. I stress that this tracing effort to cut off the transmission of the virus will have to be supervised by staff who will monitor the infected persons and will contact their relatives to test them as well. It is therefore very important to develop this testing capacity, which will have to be used in a joint effort with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u73	Minister, ten days ago, there was no transparency, no beacon, no guarantee for the respect of privacy and rights and freedoms, and that the data of 11 million Belgians could one day not be exploited by private operators for commercial – perhaps – purposes. Today, you provide us with very few answers that can appease us as to the role you intend to give the federal government in this de-confining strategy for institutional reasons, which you have always known, since federalization does not date back to the past. I confess that it is surprising that as the deconfinity approaches, the federal government is trying to escape its responsibilities while a few weeks ago, you explained to us that the federal government should be the natural place to coordinate the crisis. As stated ten days ago, there is an essential priority: testing. We were told 10,000 daily tests, which is far from the case. Today, fortunately, other levels of power are relying on (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u74	Minister, I am very pleased that you are talking about manual tracing. If the co-workers have done arguing... [[noise on some banks]] Minister, I am very pleased that you are talking about the focus on manual tracing in the first place. This has been happening for years, and this will have to continue to be the case in the first place. I'm also glad you're talking about a corona app in more conditional terms. I still hope that we will go to a coordinated app in which the federal level takes responsibility, and that we will not end up with three apps, and I will have to download a new app when I go from Vilvoorde to Brussels. We need one app, if it is necessary. Today Het Algemeen Dagblad in The Netherlands titled after a very large and transparent research that the Corona app was broken down there. That is literally the word used by the daily newspaper, so I hope that we will do what is necessary and that you will take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u75	Mr President, Minister, our energy market is upside down. There is too little demand and too much electricity, resulting in negative prices on the wholesale market. Some might consider negative prices to be a good thing, but for people's energy bills this has no effect today. On the contrary, in the long term, these negative prices threaten to bankrupt small suppliers, with all possible consequences for their customers. Madam Minister, that is why I asked you in committee last week why the nuclear power stations in our country should be in full swing. You referred to Electrabel's reply and said that it is now very difficult for staff to intervene because of coronal and security measures. I was therefore surprised to read on the website of ENGIE Electrabel that from the beginning of May two old nuclear power stations, currently in maintenance, will be brought back into the energy market. In my view, this also requires additional staff. I therefore suspect that there is more going on, which is proven by the fact that the CREG has launched an investigation into market manipulation. Your Flemish colleague, Minister Demir, also expressed her concern yesterday and said that she would interperate you on that. Madam Secretary, we are all committed to the measures. Companies connect or adapt. Electrabel, however, is only working on its own strategy and on behalf of sp.a I want to prevent this from getting into the people's invoice. Madam Minister, do you agree with me that these old nuclear power plants should be kept out of the market at the moment? How will you convince Electrabel that this company too has a social role to play in the current crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u76	Mr Verduyckt, in this matter, the CREG derives its powers from the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, better known as the REMIT Regulation. The aim of REMIT is, of course, to create a European regulatory framework, specifically for the wholesale market, to improve its functioning and to prevent and, where appropriate, punish abuse. In accordance with its regulatory powers, the CREG continuously monitors the behaviour of all market players, which, of course, is taking place with even more attention during this very exceptional period. The CREG has indeed established that ENGIE does not modulate its nuclear production during this period. This, as you have said, has an impact on the electricity market. As the CREG regularly does in the context of its powers, it has asked specific questions about this fact to Electrabel. It is not uncommon for the CREG to ask a market player for information when facts arise that do not occur frequently and therefore require some further explanation. At the moment, it is not a formal investigation, but the CREG analyses the facts that have occurred. If ENGIE argues with regard to the safety of power plants, I encourage the CREG to contact the safety authority FANC to have the arguments verified. And I can't go any further right now, ladies and gentlemen. The two questions you asked me are premature since, for the time being, the CREG must receive answers and report back to me at a later date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u77	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that the CREG is monitoring it, and that is, of course, its role. It is mainly about the current power stations that are in operation. We're just before the re-launch of those old power stations, and you can still give Electrabel the signal not to do so now. You have already given Electrabel a huge fiscal gift in the previous legislature. They absolutely do not need this. It is very irresponsible of them to bring these old plants back to the market. What makes this story very clear to me, Madam Minister, is that nuclear energy and a greater amount of renewable energy are very difficult to combine. It will be a much bigger problem in the future if the share of renewable energy is restarted. For my party, this Electrabel strategy must not have the effect of making families suffer if their energy supplier threatens to go bankrupt. That is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u78	Mr President, Madam Minister, for the past month, Ecolo-Groen has been expressing concern about the difficulties many parents face in reconciling family and working life in times of crisis. A month later, Madam Minister, you seem to have heard our arguments and we welcome them. You offered leave to single-parent families. It is a first step that speaks of the importance of considering the difficulties a parent may experience when caring for his or her children and at the same time continuing his or her professional activity. Nevertheless, it is all parents who fear that they will not be able to manage their activities and the care of their young children. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to know a little more about this announcement. What's the plan? Where are you on this project? Who will be concerned? When will it be applicable? How long will it be required to benefit from it? Above all, what will be the amounts of the allowances? Since we are talking about the very essence of the solidarity of this society, allow me to return for a moment to the artistic world. Last week, we stood up to the lightness of the Prime Minister's response to the call for the help of the artistic world. Should we recall the economic forecasts for this sector? 93 per cent of economic losses are envisaged. One in five would be in bankruptcy in the aftermath of the crisis. The levers available to the federal government must be activated today: increasing temporary unemployment, easing the granting of artist status and taking into account the special nature of short contracts are concrete avenues. Like any worker, minister, artists, technicians, authors, creators, all pay their taxes and participate actively in society. Can you, then, today commit yourself to concrete measures? There's an emergency and you know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u79	Mr. President, Mrs. Leroy, over the past few weeks, people and families have had the major impact of coronavirus. Those working at home sometimes have to combine this activity with the care of children and those working on the move have to take care of the children. Schools will gradually resume their activities. Parents who work or are soon to return to work will not always be able to care for their children. The Gezinsbond and the League of Families had already drawn our attention to the needs of families with children. We have therefore developed a proposal to allow all parents with at least one child up to the age of 12 years, or 21 years in the event of a disability, to take additional parental leave between May 1 and June 30 of this year. This could take the form of a one-fifth interruption if the person works full-time or a part-time interruption if the person is employed at a rate of less than 75%. A short procedure and the possibility of flexible use per week are provided. This morning, the text on "coronavirus" parental leave was presented to the government. We're waiting for the decision. For the artists, I have taken a royal decree, which is currently subject to the King's signature. The measures are as follows: a three-month extension of the limited period during which they are entitled to integration benefits, as well as an unchanged unemployment benefit until 30 June for artists who do not benefit from the specific neutralisation of the periods of compensation – also extended by three months. For the specific neutralisation of the periods, the period from 1 April to 30 June will be neutralised. The renewal of this benefit will also be extended until June 30 for three artistic performances. This decision also applies to the unemployed who already benefit from this measure. Mrs Leroy, a very intense consultation is under way between the various representatives of the artistic world – in the broad sense of the term – and my strategic cell. This highly heterogeneous group brings together salaried workers, temporary workers, persons with sui generis status, as well as self-employed persons. My strategic unit is identifying problems and is working constructively to try to bring as many solutions as possible every day. Moreover, Parliament has already adopted proposals on an urgent basis. His voice was heard. We will therefore cooperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u80	Minister, you know that we expect a lot from you. Living in a situation of intense stress, feeling that they are doing nothing right, these parents also need an answer. You have brought news which seems extremely interesting and which will of course have to be examined. So we are seeing a bigger opening than what was announced a few days ago. On the other hand, consultation with the artistic world is essential. Indeed, it will be very difficult to revive economic activity. In conclusion, the minister must take care of the parents as they care for future generations. It is necessary to take care of artists as they take care of what makes a society: a rich and creative cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u81	Minister, there is an increasing mention of the relaxation of the containment rules. Employers are making more and more pressure for a return to employment. On the one hand, I can understand them. The economic situation is very difficult for both employers and workers who, too, would prefer to work rather than perceive temporary unemployment. Let us be very clear, the priority is and remains health. It is out of the question of putting workers, their families and the population at risk. Never, you can hear me well, never, I can tolerate that the economy will pass before the well-being of each and every one of us. Return to work can therefore only be considered if the safety and well-being of workers are ensured. Many companies respect the rules and their staff. I thank them for that. However, I also receive testimony from workers who tell me that the rules of social security and distancing are not respected in their company. Many workers bear witness to the pressure they are under to continue working and to remain silent about their working conditions. The teleworking community is also sometimes under heavy pressure to be constantly available, while taking care of their children. Two weeks ago, you responded that 85% of whistle-blowing businesses were in contravention. Most companies received a warning, only twenty were closed. I find this a particularly worrying percentage. You have to harden your tone. Fortunately, on the part of the social partners, this is moving. They have just sent you a guide with the minimum rules to be put in place to ensure the well-being and safety of workers. How will you ensure the effective implementation of these measures? How are you going to control them? Are you going to recruit additional inspectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, the social partners of the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work have drawn up by consensus a generic guide against the spread of VOCID-19 coronavirus at work. This guide was developed in collaboration with the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the social partners, the ERMG and my strategic unit. It is a very comprehensive catalogue of concrete measures to be able to return to work safely. The measures are organised according to the different phases of the working day and supplemented by general measures. The Group of Ten included them in a joint statement. The different sectors can use them to develop a sectoral approach. The Minister and the President of the National Labour Council wrote to the chairpersons of the various Joint Committees in order to get to work with the sectors on this basis. It is an ideal evaluation framework for sectors that have already returned to work or have continued to work. The problem being of public order, and in order to avoid a resurgence of the coronavirus, it is extremely important for everyone to comply with these safety instructions according to the group of ten. Any person, employer, worker, consumer, supplier shall be considered as liable for failure to comply with these safety and health regulations. The Occupational Well-Being Inspection will be able to play a role in this respect by taking an accompaniment-based and solution-oriented approach. This statement is of exceptional importance and shows that, even in very difficult circumstances, social consultation can lead to positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you. As I said earlier, health is and remains the priority. That's good to say. It is better to take measures to guarantee it. I mean that companies "may" but I would like companies to "must" apply these measures. Above all, I would like to see checks carried out because they are essential. It's about the health of all of us. I therefore insist that the social partners' guide be fully implemented and that inspection services be strengthened in order to be able to enforce the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u84	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u85	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u86	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u87	Mr President, given the deadlines, I am obviously going to make an oral report which, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow, will be very synthetic. As the plenary meeting referred the bill to committee, its consideration took place on Tuesday, April 21, 2020 in the Health Committee. A compromise was reached to make four amendments to this bill. Firstly, changes have been made to the entry into force of various articles through the amendment by Mr. From Caluwe. Secondly, the reduction in compulsory health care and benefit insurance for biological medicines for hospitals provided for in Article 3 was abolished through the amendment by Catherine Fonck et al. Thirdly, there is the modification of the clawback mechanism, with a decision of 4% clawback for the year 2020 (generic and biosimilar being exempted from this contribution for 2020), a clawback decided by royal decree deliberate in the Council of Ministers from 2021 but which will have to be at least 4% and the possibility for the King to decide, still by royal decree deliberate in the Council of Ministers, whether the exemptions provided for in 2020 for generic and biosimilar products will be continued for 2021 et seq. This is an amendment by Mr. From Caluwe et al. Fourth, there is the exemption of price reductions for drugs considered essential by the AFMPS in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic. This is an amendment by Mrs Tillieux et al. Several other colleagues who had tabled the same type of amendment (Ms Creemers et al. and Mrs Depoorter et al.) withdrew them. At the voting level, the first two amendments were voted unanimously. The modification on the clawback mechanism was voted on by fourteen members, with two members abstaining and one member voting against. The fourth amendment on exemption in the fight against VOCID-19 was voted by sixteen members; one member voted against. The overall text thus amended was adopted by unanimity of the members in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a useful exercise to refer the pharmaceutical law back to committee. In this way, we were able to discuss it thoroughly and finally return to the plenary with a supported proposal. Mrs Fonck has already explained the content of the law. It is very important that we give the COOVID medicines a separate regime in our agreement. With our decision, we ensure maximum access to those cheap and old medications which, however, are still not available in large quantities to patients while they are still fighting for their lives. We particularly look at the availability of a medicine and at the extent to which it enables care providers to care for patients in a comfortable way, so that they can do their job as well as possible. It is also very important that the agreement should be reviewed and that there should be a regulation for generics and biosimulars. The lack of this was one of the key points in the criticism of the clawback, while precisely ensuring that the proportion of generics and biosimulars in the overall package of medicines increases. It is also important that we continue to seek a balance between sufficient innovation, on the one hand, and sufficient access for our patients to the latest and most innovative therapies, on the other. I conclude with our most important task: we absolutely need to renegotiate the future pact with all stakeholders. We need a balanced agreement for the coming years so that medicine remains affordable, accessible and innovative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u89	Minister, this text has been the subject of much discussion. Last week it was on the agenda of the plenary session, many amendments had been tabled and, in order to preserve the serenity of the debate, it had been proposed to refer it back to committee. In committee, we have done constructive work that meets the expectations of each other, which is why our group will support the project today. This project has been submitted to us by the government in day-to-day business and is aimed at implementing a series of cost-saving measures in the pharmaceutical sector as part of the health care budget. This budget was drawn up without any consultation since the government did not take into account the balanced proposal – which had been almost unanimous – of the Insurance Committee. This text provides for measures to reduce the price of a series of old medicines. It also provides for the removal of the so-called safety margin, a supplement of up to five euros paid by the patient, out of about 600 original medicines. It's a savings of about 40 million for patients. We would also like to stress that we have a series of fears. Indeed, we fear that some firms may request an upward revision of the basic price, inevitably entailing an additional cost to INAMI. We fear that these medicines will simply disappear from the market, for which there is no alternative, because they have become unprofitable by pharmaceutical companies or, perhaps, more profitable in other countries. In fact, we are in an extremely competitive market here. Our fears are also at the level of generic drug companies that would not have the capacity to increase their production to supplement, with the risk that we will find ourselves facing even greater shortages than today. It will therefore be necessary to assess the measures taken today to ensure that neither the patient nor the insurance of health care is ultimately penalized. My group is also relieved that it has been able to provide a concrete response to the epidemic we are experiencing today by not imposing this reduction in prices on all drugs essential to the treatment of VOCID-19. The pharmaceutical supply chain is indeed under pressure in Belgium, but also worldwide because of this pandemic. Shortages are also emerging in all countries. If the drugs essential for the treatment of VOCID-19 were also to fall in prices, there could be a fear that Belgium would weaken its negotiating position vis-à-vis other countries and that, in so doing, shortages would appear, which would be dramatic for patients. If this is not the best option for some, I would like to reiterate that it is the need to be able to provide quality care to patients that guided the tabling of this amendment by my group, which has been supported by many colleagues, and we thank them for that. In addition, the project also provides, as is well known, savings that, whatever is said, would not have been realized by the pharmaceutical sector, but that, if not planned, would have directly impacted the hospital budget. Given the financial pressures that have placed on the latter in recent years and the unprecedented situation they are facing today, this economy on their backs would clearly not have been acceptable. Therefore, we are satisfied that this measure could have been removed from the bill under consideration today. Finally, my group would also like to point out today that the drug policy will have to be assessed and reviewed. Indeed, in order to guarantee medicines of the best possible quality for each patient, which are available in the long term, while preserving a budget under control, it will be necessary, in the long term, to review the policy of medicines, and specifically that of innovative medicines. More emphasis needs to be placed on the real medical needs of patients, on health priorities. We are thinking, for example, of the vaccine that should be developed against VOCID-19, which we all call for. There is also a need to optimize the reimbursement system for medicines. The use of a correct and rational prescription of medicinal products should be encouraged. We need to strengthen collaborations at European level; here we think there is really work. And there is also a need for greater accountability in the pharmaceutical sector, which, as is well known, when it goes beyond the budgetary framework set for it, must not reimburse the totality of its overexpenditure. I recall the recurrent overrun in recent years: 191 million in 2015, 143 million in 2016, 268 million in 2017, 392 million in 2018 and 162 million in 2019. The annual fee is around €110 million. So the account isn't there. Efforts will still have to be made and it seems to us important that the sector can be made more accountable. It is for this reason that my group supported in committee the amendment by our colleague from the Sp.a., requiring the pharmaceutical industry to reimburse, by 2020, the entire budget overrun. Some felt that this change would lead to too much unpredictability for the sector. That is why a consensus was finally reached in committee on Tuesday. This consensus, if it maintains a ceiling of remuneration for the pharmaceutical industry, has at least allowed the ceiling to be raised, leaving it to the competent minister to negotiate future payments for the pharmaceutical sector, which we believe is a step in the right direction. Mr President, my group will continue to argue that this system of compensation can be assessed and adapted in the future to ensure the sustainability of our system of care, all in favour of all patients. For all these reasons, as I said at the beginning of my speech, my group will support the project on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u90	Mr President, I said last week what the Flemish interest of the draft law is. I will not repeat that today. I will focus on the small changes included in the draft law. Mrs. Fonck, the keeper wins. Your amendment to stop taxing hospitals in this corona period was already supported by the Flemish Interest from the outset and was now adopted by the other parties by a 180 degree curve. Amendment No 15, or the so-called negotiated amendment, was negotiated with the pharmaceutical industry but equally between the various parties. The left-wing trophy, which was supposed to have been won on 20 February, has thus been completely eroded. The sp.a., PS and Ecolo-Green, who were the savers of the pharmaceutical budget two months ago, are now giving their approval to the erosion of their own approved amendment. The only thing left of the left trophy is the name tag. What was the occasion? A handful of silver or a post in the post-corona government? So far, the reliability of left-wing parties. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, it is an amendment which introduces a new article to safeguard the supply of essential COOVID-19 medicinal products. Almost all parties had tabled the same amendment. The Flemish Interest was therefore free to sign one of the amendments as a sign of support and commitment. It would be thought that everyone would be happy, now that the second largest party in the country is supporting it, but not in this House. Mr Bertels hastened to say that he was very pleased with the support of Ecolo-Green and other colleagues, but it seems that representatives of the second largest party in this country do not even belong to the category of 'other colleagues', because our signature was clearly refused. Worse still, more than half an hour was lost and valuable time was wasted. For the PVDA-PTB comrades it was even necessary to confirm explicitly that the Flemish Interest certainly did not sign with them. Eight hundred thousand voters were here for the umpteenth time offended by those who supposedly take it up for the worker, the entrepreneur, the small self-employed, the caregiver. Do you really think that among those voters of the Flemish Interest there are no workers, no entrepreneurs, no small self-employed persons, no care providers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u91	Do you really think you are going to stand up for those people when you discriminate 800,000 because of their political beliefs? One thing has become clear to me, colleagues. It has become clear to me that you are actually right: my party is not democratic, if it is about democracy as you imagine it. If democracy is to discriminate against 800,000 people for the sake of their political convictions, then we are indeed not democrats. If a democratic state is in favour of a two-track society which refuses to cooperate with the representatives of the second largest party in the country, then we are indeed not democratic. If democracy stands for those who sign something, rather than for what is signed, then the Flemish interest is consistently not democratic. We therefore carry this umpteenth title worthy of a name and leave it to the electorate to assess it. I shall return to the draft law, Mr President. The Flemish Interest is pleased that it is finally before the vote. We hope, therefore, that it will finally be voted on today, because last week we were as far as I can see sitting here ringing alarm bells all of a sudden. I therefore hope that it will be possible to vote today, including with the support of the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, in committee, we have again worked on the draft law before us, to which some amendments have indeed been made. For example, we have supported Mrs Fonck on the financing of hospitals. In addition, we have also supported an amendment which ensures that there is a safeguard of the COVID-19 medication, particularly in view of the current crisis. So we now have a weighted text which will of course support and approve the CD&V Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u93	Mr. President, it's back, so let's talk about it again. I think it's normal. Today, this proposed bill comes from the government and talks about the significant expenditures we make on drugs, which we all pay with our social security. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, with the outbreak of VOCID-19, we realize the importance of our social security. But our social security is in danger. One of the dangers is what has been going on for a long time, for several years now: it is a real looting that is being carried out by pharmaceutical companies. I'll talk about the same example again. The Oméprazole box we pay 33 euros in Belgium costs 3 euros in the Netherlands. That is, a few kilometres from our borders, some medicines are up to 90% cheaper. A second example is at the level of hospitals. We talked about it. In hospitals, thanks to the tender system, we are able to obtain reductions. I could hold in the afternoon with all the examples of cheaper drug prices in other countries. I could also mention the Nordic countries. It is obvious that we could pay a lot, much less for our medicines. We have calculated that just for the 25 medicines that cost our social security the most, we could save no less than 400 million euros. It is obvious that if we apply the prices I have just mentioned to all of our medicines, we could easily save billions, which we could usefully use elsewhere in social security, or to repay more medicines. I repeat: the savings that are proposed today are not real savings. These are price reductions that should be normal in our country. When a drug gets older, just like a computer, a few years later, prices drop. It's usually the same with the drugs. As long as he's on the market, at least he's expensive. That's what should normally happen, but that's not happening. Prices remain artificially high. We're going to make small price cuts, but that's really derisory about the savings we could make. So we're going to talk a little bit about the changes in the law. Mr Dewael, you said last week that a grooming was under way, a great compromise. It was a technical story. Of course, it wasn't technical at all. We learned in committee what was going to happen. The law had come out of the commission and the principle had been won that firms exceeding the budget should, by means of a mechanism, reimburse the government for the excess of that budget. This repayment, which was supposed to return to social security, was previously capped, but it was deflated. This means that these firms had to repay the full amount of the budget overrun. This principle, which we had initially won, was enshrined in the law. But after weeks of lobbying on both sides, we saw that the Big Pharma did it. The law provides for a ceiling. Even the exemption from these exceedances for the generic industry is not acquired at all, while it is especially the Big Pharma that is responsible for the exceedances, I think that there, he really won his hit. This law has been emptied even more of its substance. The second problem is that we had another amendment in committee when it was not planned. This new amendment will introduce an exception in this law which is proposed to us for old medicines. The exception is granted. These are small price reductions, as I'm telling you, and there will be no price reductions for the drugs we use as part of the VOCID-19 epidemic. I have consulted the list of medicinal products concerned. There are few drugs that treat coronavirus and few innovations. Indeed, and unfortunately, there was already the SARS epidemic in 2003. We even had vaccine developments, but it did not interest any firm to develop a drug against VOCID at the time. However, 84 vaccines were in the pipeline, but none interested a company in developing the vaccine because at that time it was not cost-effective. Again, we see that firms are really leading research. If today we don't have a vaccine, it's because of the logic of profit. So we have old drugs, which we use for patients with VOCID-19 today, for example, in intensive care. A list of drugs for which shortages are likely to occur has been established. Why? Because there are more patients. Today, in the law, it is said that if these medicines are subject to a fall in prices, it will not apply. They'll be able to keep their price higher. In this way, we have some influence on the market. In other words, I really ask: why do they benefit from this exception? Madam Minister, now I am talking to you; I have already asked you this question in committee on Tuesday and you have not answered me. On March 28, you made a large press release with the government. You said that the government and the pharmaceutical industry in Belgium are together in the fight against coronavirus. In this press release, it was said that you were going to increase the testing capacity for example. There is talk about the possible development of a vaccine, but there is no mention of possible drug shortages. So I wonder, when you had this meeting with the firms, what you asked them to do. When I look at the list of medications that may be in short supply, I'm sorry, but these are old drugs, produced by Johnson & Johnson, UCB Pharma, by Pfizer. These are antibiotics, antimycotics, painkillers, old medicines that they can produce perfectly. I want to know what you negotiated to make sure that we were supplied with these drugs. We risk a shortage, while in Belgium we are still at the forefront of the pharmaceutical industry. We have pharmaceutical companies. Don't tell me we can't open production lines. One drug that may be in short supply is GSK's Clamoxyl. We discussed it. GSK announced that it would stop production in 2021. I hope you asked them not to stop this production. We're not done with the VOCID-19. There is still a risk of having patients affected for months and months. We could use all these drugs. Apart from the fact that they can be sold at a higher price than expected, what did you ask them to do? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u94	Mr President, Madam Minister, it has had a bit of an impact, but we have come to the end. I will mainly abstain from constructive cooperation at the end and from the progressive understanding that many colleagues have had. If I recall correctly, this draft law, as we have amended, was adopted unanimously in committee not so long ago. I will confine myself to four messages and a call that each of the basic frameworks of the sp.a group, which we will continue to defend in the past, now and in the future, in particular that a strong government should ensure accessible, affordable and good health care, including as regards medicines. This draft law, as amended, contributes to this. The first important message is that the invoice for patients for certain medicines is finally falling. This will take place from 1 July instead of 1 April. The decline in the invoice, at cruising speed more than 50 million annually, is a good thing. Second message. Greater solidarity and greater responsibility are required from the Big Pharma if they exceed their pharmaceutical budget. The latter is sometimes forgotten. It is a reasonable responsibility, a reasonable solidarity, at a level similar to the responsibility and solidarity that apply to all other actors in our famous and important healthcare sector. Third message. I welcome the progressive understanding of all the colleagues who are now supporting this bill. Thanks for that. There is a potential boost for the generics sector, for the biosimilars sector, in other words for good and cheap medicines. The market share of these good and cheap medicines in Belgium needs to increase. In the meantime, everyone agrees with that. In our neighbouring countries, this market share is much higher than in Belgium. Colleagues, this is how we achieve the absolute objective of creating more space and financial resources for the reimbursement of innovative medicines, of which there is a large part in the pipeline and which we need in an affordable, accessible and good healthcare system. Fourth message. All hands on deck to fight the corona virus. The sp.a is satisfied that the amendment has been approved in order not to take any risks, I assume that this is reasonable for everyone with the availability of essential COOVID-19 medicines. Their availability remains assured. Secondly, there must be no risk to our hospitals and our hospital pharmacists. They should also not be imposed on additional administrative burdens. Here too, we are satisfied because everyone has accepted that additional financial and administrative burdens will not be imposed on our hospitals. They shall be excluded. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, an appeal. In this area, too, there is a moving insight. I therefore hope that Parliament will be able to work on it after the vote. Let us start discussions, work with all the actors involved and prepare the way for a new pax pharmaceuticals, a new and social pharmaceutical deal, for which many actors in the pharmaceutical sector are asking parties. Colleagues, we've seen them all. There's a lot of asking parties. So let us work together for a strong government and a strong pharmaceutical sector in all its parts. I have already announced in committee that the sp.a is prepared to do so and that it certainly wants to go down that road, so that there will be a new and social pharmaceutical deal by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u95	Mr. Speaker, the course of this bill ended better than it had begun. Let us try to look at the positive aspects, even if it is only one step, since other projects are waiting for us. First of all, this project aims to reduce the bill for certain drugs. The responsibility of the pharmaceutical sector has also been increased in a balanced manner to take account of its Belgian branch in the field of research and innovation. This is obviously fundamental – above all for patients. Similarly, the text incorporates treatment for VOCID-19. As was the case during the debates in committee, a colleague explained to us that it was possible to achieve substantial reductions in this area. However, I repeat, we cannot completely ignore the reality on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen of the PTB, the words I have heard again today neglect the situation of hospitals and, in particular, of intensive care units. I don't think you're measuring how hospital clinics try to manage to find some medicines that are in short supply, even though contracts provide for guaranteed delivery. Therefore, these services must turn to other pharmaceutical companies with no stocks. When you tell me that it's just about deploying production lines, I don't know if you realize what you're saying. This would mean asking some workers in this sector to consent to weeks of seventy-two hours. I didn't know it was your philosophy. I'm just saying that not taking into account the reality of hospitals in order to guarantee the administration of medicines to patients who still struggle between life and death today, that would really make little case of what is happening on the ground. Finally, I would say that, from the outset, I have been constantly arguing that this bill should not be used to impose additional savings on hospitals whose financial situation is particularly difficult. I thank the various colleagues who supported my amendment to remove these savings on hospitals. I am not saying that this will solve the situation of 2020, which is a horrific year for hospitals. It is true that an agreement has been reached, within both the Kern and the Kern extended to party presidents, to free up an additional billion for hospitals. But, Madam Minister, you know as well as I do that, most likely, this billion will not be enough, given the financial returns that are completely beheaded at the level of hospitals, since they have agreed to abolish all elective activities in order to concentrate, first and foremost, on the fight against VOCID-19. This does not mean, of course, that everything is resolved, because two major projects must be opened up. First of all, on the pharmaceutical side, many innovative additional medicines will happen, whether for rare diseases or for frequent diseases. Agreements with the pharmaceutical sector and a reasonable price clause will therefore have to be reached if this is to be feasible on the state side and accessible on the patient side. The other major project of the future will be to change the financing of hospitals, developing a medium- and long-term vision through a multi-year plan. It is no longer possible to continue, every year, to find themselves with corrections, budgets for the year -3 or -4 – this is how it is done – with therefore great instability for the future projects developed by hospitals. Of course, the first hospital budget is the salaries of the healthcare staff who, as always, but now more than ever, fight for patients, against VOCID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u96	Mr. Chairman, my group will support the bill. I would like to thank the constructive work that has been done by my colleagues in committee. It was essential, in the light of the current crisis, to adapt this text to guarantee a minimum availability of certain medicines, particularly during the period we are going through today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u97	Mr President, thank you all for agreeing to this compromise. I can say that this agreement was a difficult delivery. I regret, however, that the reduction in the invoice for patients is halved now that this does not take place until 1 July. They say it's at cruising speed, but we're not gonna get to 57 million so fast. Well, it'll be half. The future pact has already been discussed. This has been there from 2015 to 2019 and has ensured a very high accessibility of innovative medicines for many patients: for people with orphan disease, for people with diabetes and, above all, for cancer treatments for which no medicine was previously suitable. I think it is up to the new government to conclude a new pact. Mr Bertels, I would like to hear you talk about a pax medicine, but then one cannot first make a declaration of war as Mrs Tillieux did and then make peace. There may be peace after every war, but it will be a very great challenge. I'm glad you're ready to take it on. Meanwhile, the corona crisis has come. The FAGG, together with the FPS Public Health Service, has been very active in obtaining the scarcer medication on an internationally disturbed market; medications that, however, had to be used more because of the higher number of patients on intensive care, but also on dialysis, for ventilation and so on. Under difficult circumstances it has been ensured that, although with quotas, there was enough medication available. Not all countries have achieved the same result. I'm glad there's a consensus now. It is still half a year and next month we should actually start a new budget for 2020-2021. It's not too early, but never too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u98	Madam Minister, I regret that you have still not answered my question, which I have asked you twice. What commitments have you requested from companies that produce all the drugs on the list and are likely to be in short supply to increase their production capacity? What guarantee do we have that these medicines will be available for more months for our patients? Mrs Fonck, you say I don't know the reality of the field. I know her very well! I know that hospitals have difficulties in supplying medicines. Why don't we increase production lines in our country? If 72 hours are required on the chain to do so, overtime will have to be paid or staff will have to be hired. In hospitals, we had to work harder to deal with the epidemic. Therefore, while it is possible to work more and to hire staff to produce these medicines more so that they are available in Belgium and abroad, it is our duty to do so. It is our duty to empower our pharmaceutical companies for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u99	Madam Minister, I said earlier that I would mainly refrain from constructive cooperation, but I must say something. It is not up to the opposition or Parliament that this government bill will not enter into force until 1 July. Parliament has done its utmost to ensure that the draft has already been approved in committee so that the law could enter into force on 1 April, including the reduction of the patient bill for medicinal products. It is not Parliament that has blocked it. It is the government or a government party that I leave in the middle that has taken the draft off the agenda of plenary every time. The truth has its rights. The delay is not Parliament's fault. It is not the fault of Parliament that the patient bill will come into effect later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u100	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u101	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1005/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1005/9) The bill has 14 articles. The draft law has 14 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u103	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nawal Farih, Nahima Lanjri, Valerie Van Peel, Marie-Colline Leroy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u105	Mr President, I will briefly summarise what has been discussed in committee. Mrs Farih has tabled and explained the bill. Social elections take place every four years on a legally defined date. The next social elections were scheduled from 11 to 24 May. It concerns one election day, but we know that there is an extensive procedure preceding this particular day. The legislation provides for a strict prior procedure in which decisions are to be taken. This procedure starts at 150 days before the actual election day, according to a strictly defined calendar that does not allow any gap. Since the outbreak of the coronavirus, many companies have been obliged to allow their workers to work on a massive scale or even stop their activities and thus place their workers on temporary unemployment. As a result, many employees are no longer present in companies and the consultative bodies are no longer able to meet properly. This hypothesizes the further serene conduct of the electoral procedure. Hence the bill to postpone the social elections. The social partners reached agreement on this within the Group of Ten and within the NAR. This suspension has many practical and legal consequences which must be clearly and legally cleared if we are to avoid massive disputes and legal disputes. In the opinion of the social partners there were some essential points on this subject. On the one hand, the rights and obligations of all interested parties shall be frozen in the State in which they are located on the date of the temporary suspension of the electoral procedure. On the other hand, any undesirable direct or indirect effect of the suspension of the electoral procedure and the postponement of the day of the social elections must be avoided. The draft law transforms this opinion of the social partners into legislation and regulates all the consequences of this suspension and also provides for special protection for employees and candidate staff. Several political groups have briefly intervened and questions have been asked about, among other things, the participation of the interim workers, the membership of the trade union and the suspension of judicial proceedings. The Minister of Work welcomed the bill and replied to several questions. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the applicant submitted a number of amendments. These amendments and the legislative proposal itself were then adopted unanimously in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u106	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Kitir for reporting. The proposal was adopted unanimously and it is essential that we vote on it today, given its urgent nature. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation and support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u107	Mr President, given the health crisis and, of course, the containment measures, the normal conduct of these social elections had become impossible. Both the campaign and the final vote were in jeopardy. As far as we are concerned, we wanted to co-sign the bill under consideration because it seemed to us essential that social elections could be held in the most serene and efficient manner possible. This is an issue that matters to us very much, knowing how much the discussions between the social partners are an indispensable element in the world of work, but also how much the delegates within companies need to be supported and heard. The suspension of these procedures was therefore essential. Furthermore, as my colleague, Mrs Kitir, has already said, it was also necessary to guarantee legal certainty. On the other hand, it was interesting to hear the views of the social partners who expressed their views on a series of legitimate expectations regarding the freezing of their respective rights and obligations. The debate was calm and constructive in the Committee on Social Affairs, which is why my group would like to thank the various speakers, but also the work of the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u108	Madam Minister, we support the proposal, of course, but I asked you a question in committee to which you replied with an affirmative nod. That is why I would like to repeat the question here. Can you confirm that a letter is being sent to labour law banks to put an end to the current procedures for candidatures, and that there are certainly not five cases to be dealt with before the procedures are re-launched? How's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u109	Mrs Kitir, I formally confirm that the letter to stop the procedures will leave as soon as this has been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u110	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u111	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1146/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1146/5) The bill has 20 articles. The bill has 20 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u113	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Meryame Kitir, Anja Vanrobaeys, Jan Bertels, Gilles Vanden Burre, Evita Willaert, Marc Goblet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since we discussed in the relevant Committee on Social Affairs last Tuesday the legislative proposal to amend the Royal Decree on the unemployment regulation of 25 November 1991 concerning temporary unemployment benefits for employees of tailor-made enterprises, tabled by Mr Kitir, Mr Vanrobaeys and Mr Bertels, of the sp.a Group, I cannot confine myself to referring to the written report. In her explanatory statement, Mrs Kitir pointed out that the aim of the proposal was to allow temporary unemployment benefits for workers of customised enterprises. The Royal Decree of 4 February 2018, which amended the cumulation scheme in the case of progressive work, introduced a provision allowing employees of tailor-made companies to combine the full-time or non-full-time income with an unreduced disability allowance. However, in the case of temporary unemployment, those workers are not entitled to a temporary unemployment benefit, which means that they fall back on a sickness benefit, albeit at 100%. However, the fact that the persons concerned very often do not record sufficient employment benefits and receive benefits as irregular workers means that the sickness benefit they receive, where appropriate, is often not much higher than the living wage, which is EUR 959 for a single person. Because of their problems due to their disability or illness, the sickness benefit is often insufficient. So the reward they can earn has certainly come. If they are placed on temporary unemployment, the authors of the proposal agree with them that they should be able to count on unemployment benefit on top of their RIZIV benefit. Mrs Kitir's bill makes that possible. When the proposal is adopted, it will enter into force retroactively from 13 March 2020, when the first government measures to prevent the further spread of COOVID-19 were announced. Mr Willaert of Ecolo-Groen and Mr Goblet of the PS supported the proposal, which they also co-signed. Mr Goblet wants to support any balanced and fair response for employees of tailor-made companies and believes that all workers should be able to count on the same kind of support when faced with force majeure. Mr Samyn van het Vlaams Belang also supports the proposal, but asks why the measure is not extended to all those who are employed at a maximum of 20%. Mrs Kitir replied that this is not necessary, because these workers have already acquired sufficient rights to be able to accumulate, whereas this is not the case for employees of customised companies. Mrs Galant of the MR indicates that we are dealing with a vulnerable audience, which, thanks to tailor-made work, gets a sustainable, qualitative job. Tailor-made enterprises, which also belong to the essential sectors, are also continuing to work, even though their employees are particularly vulnerable to the coronavirus. In the event of closure, they continue to suffer from a need for additional care, so a accumulation seems logical to them. The MR asked about the size of the group and Minister Muylle promised to deliver those figures afterwards. On behalf of my party, last Tuesday, I indicated that we welcome the possibility for employees of tailor-made companies, who are already very weak, to combine their sickness benefits with temporary unemployment benefits. However, we have called for the debate to be conducted in a wider context. Minister Muylle agrees with that remark and calls for any future consideration to be given to ways to provide additional incentives for people with benefits to work. Many people do that without being punished. Indeed, we must ensure that work always pays off. Although this is a broader debate, our group and our minister have no problem with the proposal before us. We have therefore supported it. The various statutes already give rise to discrimination and, to some extent, we confirm this discrimination with the present proposal. But the reason for this is actually the basic legislation and not the new text. The proposed adjustment also makes sense in corona times. I also urged the Minister to consider whether an additional daily supplement could be paid out. This still needs to be developed in technical terms, because a higher daily allowance, which is currently EUR 5.63, cannot make more money than when you are at work. Mr Moscufo of the PVDA-PTB also supports the proposal. In her view, it is not up to the employee to pay for the crisis and certainly not to people with disabilities. It is a socially justified proposal for those workers who already face additional costs because of their disability. She felt that the proposal was very respectful of the workers concerned. Some are obliged to work because their benefits are too low. At the same time, by working, they also see themselves included in society. Around 32,000 people with disabilities work in the sector and raises the question of whether it is really necessary to put them to work in these difficult circumstances, while the social-distanting rules may not be respected. Ms De Jonge van Open Vld recognised the social added value of tailor-made companies, which are active in different sectors and are complementary to regular companies. However, given that the proposal has an impact on workers who work less than one fifth, it is important to assess whether the granting of temporary unemployment benefits is appropriate, especially as work in the sector needs to be encouraged and some tailor-made enterprises are able to operate, including in the corona crisis. Some tailor-made companies, for example, carry out paramedical tasks. It underlines the importance of these tailor-made companies. In the sector of tailor-made enterprises, incentives must be given to remain operational. She also thinks it is a wrong signal to adopt the bill now in full corona crisis. The measure cannot be separated from the general measures on the cumulation of unemployment benefits with a full sickness benefit. It therefore calls for a broader analysis of the bill and also for the advice of Minister Muylle and Minister De Block. Mr Anseeeuw does not consider the bill strictly to be a corona measure. In his view, the legislative proposal aims to make a definitive change to the rules. He joined the Minister and felt that there should be a broader debate. He noted that temporary unemployment was not intended to cover certain health benefits. Moreover, in 2018 it was decided to provide for an exception for people in tailor-made companies to the rule of reducing the ZIV benefit in the event of progressive work resumption. It is just because the full ZIV benefit is maintained that there is no accumulation with temporary unemployment. According to Mr Anseeeuw, the question needs to be asked as to how the limited resources of social security are properly used. He considered that the target group defined in the legislative proposal, in particular employees in a tailor-made company, was arbitrary and vaguely defined. There are other low-income people who are not covered by the measure. So he doesn't think the bill is the right answer to a legitimate question. The author, Mrs Kitir, replicated that the proposal is seeking a solution to a pressing problem that is now emerging. It is true that the debate needs to be extended, but in the meantime that problem can be resolved. It is therefore not surprising that in the vote on the proposal the PS, Ecolo-Groen, Vlaams Belang, MR, CD&V, sp.a and PVDA-PTB voted in favour, Open Vld abstained and the N-VA voted against. The proposal was thus adopted by 13 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me outline the context of this legislative proposal. A number of principles must be respected. A first general principle is that those who are unable to work can temporarily resume work through a part-time or progressive resumption of work. Depending on the number of hours worked, an amount is deducted from his or her sickness and invalidity allowance. There is a single exception to this principle, because people working in a tailor-made company can always keep their full sickness and invalidity benefits regardless of the number of hours worked. A second general principle is that disabled persons cannot in principle claim unemployment benefits unless they are temporary unemployment benefits and that only for disabled persons who work and whose sickness and invalidity benefits are partly reduced according to the hours worked. If these things are taken together, the target group envisaged here today will not be eligible. With the present legislative proposal, the proposers want to make an exception to these principles that have been applied for decades and that only for the employees of tailor-made companies. It is therefore a matter of exception. The authors of this proposal consider that the sickness and invalidity benefits received by employees of tailor-made companies are not sufficient to live on. They claim that these employees have a lot of extra expenses due to their illness. During the debate in committee, I expressed some reservations about this and I would like to repeat them briefly here. Firstly, the question of the level of sickness and invalidity benefits for the most vulnerable in our society deserves a thorough debate. However, this proposal does not provide the right answer to that legitimate question. Many colleagues in committee agreed that this issue deserves a thorough debate, but I note that they set an important precedent with their voting behaviour before that debate takes place. First of all, the corona crisis was cited as a reason for the proposed derogation from a not insignificant principle, namely that for hours one can work one cannot receive or need to receive sickness and invalidity benefits. In fact, however, this has nothing to do with corona, it is primarily a debate on the level of those ZIV benefits. If, for some reason, an employee of a tailor-made company falls back on a sickness benefit outside the time of corona, that benefit is not higher or lower than in times of corona. In this case, health care is not necessarily higher or lower than in corona times. There is another important element, namely that a debate on the level of sickness benefits is by definition also a debate on the financing of our social security. My second thought is that the number of hours someone can work under progressive employment is not limited. This means that the proposal now before us will allow employees of tailor-made companies to combine full sickness and invalidity benefits with unemployment benefits calculated on a high number of days worked. In other words, we would use the limited resources of our social security, which are under more pressure today than ever before, in particular its financing, to provide people who are already receiving full social benefits on top of social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, it is difficult to call this a responsible use of the limited resources of our social security system. In addition, the target group that is targeted is described fairly randomly. Firstly, the measure is considered necessary for employees of tailor-made companies, because they, I quote, 'are quite frequent irregular workers and therefore have lower ZIV benefits'. It is also mentioned that the target group of the bill would have higher health care. There are also some comments to be made. Oddly enough, the proposed measure is not limited to the group which actually has a lower benefit or higher health care. On the other hand, it is extended to all employees of tailor-made companies, regardless of the level of their health care and the level of benefit they receive. Secondly, strangely enough, the measure is not introduced for a group of disabled persons who also receive a full ZIV benefit because of a limited employment in the regular work circuit. However, it might as well be argued that within that group too many people have a great distance from the labour market. Moreover, by definition, this group of disabled persons also bears higher health care than healthy workers. We must also continue to ensure that temporary unemployment does not become more rewarding or more rewarding than work. This would unnecessarily jeopardise the affordability, but also the legitimacy and support of our social security systems, and possibly also lead to an unemployment trap. Today, around 1.25 million Belgians are temporarily unemployed. It is good and necessary for the government, among other things, to support the economy through temporary unemployment when the economy is largely shut down. Only today, for all of us, it is coffee-diving to see what will be the duration of the current period of social disruption. Just that uncertainty must be an incentive for all of us to be more careful than ever with instruments such as temporary unemployment. Here, however, the opposite is happening. That's not the first time. The day before yesterday we in the committee also noticed that it will not be the last time. A new target group will be discussed next week. A distinction should be made between targeted and effective use of measures such as temporary unemployment and the excessive use of such measures. In this case, the second happens. A social benefit on top of another can never be the intention. Granting unemployment benefit to cover sickness is nothing less than improper use of unemployment benefit. That's where the shoe wrings. Almost all parties here feel called to open up the social security slide week after week without much delay. What is very exciting about this is that the same parties do not care about the financing and affordability of the same social security. Those are all for those parties to take care of later. We held two full days of hearings in committee on the financing of social security. Experts, employers and employees were discussed. It's been really exciting days. The people who spoke to us also deserve to pay tribute to the effort they have made. The effect of this is still awaited. To the extent necessary, it was made crystal clear at that time that the challenge to affordability of our social security is enormous. The proposal, as it is now before us, is not only a middle finger to all those who will need our social security in the future, but also to those who have spoken to us in committee for days. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal came under the guise of the corona crisis. For the record, this proposal has nothing to do with corona. The legislation in question is not subject to temporary changes but to definitive changes. Although the demand for a sufficiently high income is entirely justified, we will not approve this bill. This issue deserves a serious debate. Many say it with us, but do not act upon it. A solution embedded in a vision of the future of a social security that activates is much needed. But here, the opposite is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u117	Mr. Chair, the purpose of this bill is to provide temporary unemployment benefits to ETA (Adapted Work Enterprises) employees who combine their part-time earnings with an unreduced disability benefit, as they are allowed to do. However, the current wording of the decision on unemployment means that in the case of temporary unemployment, these workers will not be entitled to temporary unemployment benefits and will thus reduce their limited disability benefit, which, I would point out, may be below the poverty line. Colleagues, I confess and allow myself to say this to you in a small committee: perhaps because I am a young Member of Parliament, when I had to read this text, I first thought I had not understood. This meant, therefore, that prior to this proposal, ETA employees were competing for a cessation of employment and disability benefits. However, it is known that persons with disabilities have high expenses because of their illness. So far, unbearable competition has been maintained. Is it important today to ensure greater security and that social security can respond to this persistent problem? The answer is yes. I would like to recall that in normal times, the risk for a worker with a disability is three times higher than that of a worker, to fall into a precarious situation. Is this a coronavirus proposal that goes further? Of course, I recognize him. If, in normal times, a person with a disability has three more risks of falling into poverty, what do you think about the current situation where everyone is in a difficult situation? What then to say about the people who combine the difficulties? Social security also serves this purpose: to repair and ensure that people who combine difficulties can be supported, helped, valued and recognized. So it was obvious to us to co-sign this bill that sends a message to the workers. We warmly invite all of you to rethink and support this text, which only aims to enable people with disabilities to live more decently in this extremely complicated period. I can't imagine that we can scandalize ourselves that after the crisis, these people can live in better conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u118	Mr President, I would like to thank those Members who supported the proposal in committee. The rapporteur has already said a great deal about this. I will not repeat myself, but I just want to give a brief response to what the colleague from N-VA said. Your reaction really bumps into my chest. We are talking about people who are in a very difficult situation and who are already trying to work from a difficult situation. It is a good thing that Minister De Block's reforms have created the possibility of retaining sickness benefits along with their income. However, at a time of crisis, they will be hit hardest. They then fall back on a sickness benefit, but not on a disease benefit of 100 % because they are often people who have not been able to build up their rights. We are talking about a benefit below the poverty line. The fact that you are questioning all of this is something that strikes me. Allow me to say that I have no lessons to learn from you when it comes to the affordability of social security. The N-VA has been part of the government for four years, and the legacy you leave is not really something to say to chapeau. You deliberately derailed the social security budget and then spent a year calling for even more savings in social security. Now that we are facing this corona crisis, you are changing your mind and saying that we need social security. It's just how it suits you; one day you're a fan of social security and the other time social security is your enemy, a domain that needs saving. Today came the judgment of the Constitutional Court which destroys the untaxed extra income. People who already had a job were allowed to earn 6,000 euros without tax in the previous legislature. So there is 0 euro going to social security. We have had a hearing on this in Parliament. Ten organisations, from trade unions and employers to volunteers, have all warned about the consequences and you have not responded. I am very pleased that the Constitutional Court is destroying that today, so that social security, which you are so concerned about, will be financed in the future. I conclude by thanking colleagues for their support for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u119	Mrs Kitir, Mr Anseeuw had asked for the floor for a break. In the meantime, you're done with your statement. I shall, however, give the floor to Mr Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u120	Mr President, Mr Kitir, we are always talking about people with low benefits. However, this proposal is not just about people with low benefits and at the same time it excludes many people with low benefits. So the question is to what extent one does not discriminate with this proposal, regardless of the fact that the affordability of social security has always been our concern. We are only deeply disagreed on the way we should do this. In itself that should not be a bad thing, it should be possible to disagree peacefully. Saying that we have never taken care of the financing of social security before is not true. It fits well in your booth, but if we return to the proposal before you, you risk discrimination against many people with low benefits. At the same time, you risk giving a number of other people two high social benefits. After all, also people with full social benefits calculated on the basis of high numbers of hours and days worked can accumulate the benefits. That cannot really be the intention, because that is inefficient use of the limited resources of social security. Okay, we're differences of opinion. I can, but I'm just not sure you're consistent. You say in your explanatory statement that it is always about people with low benefits, while it is arbitrary about all employees of customised companies and at the same time many other people with low benefits in the regular work circuit are excluded from your measures. How inconsistent one can be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u121	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u122	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1139/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1139/3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u123	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u124	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Servais Verherstraeten, Philippe Pivin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh .
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is part of the urgent measures to be taken in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Thus, in order to avoid as much as possible physical contacts and meetings of persons, the provisions concern the period within which public sales are to be tendered under Article 1587 of the Judicial Code, the swearing-in of judicial experts, translators, interpreters and interpreters, judges, assessors, lay judges, judicial staff, lawyers, notaries and judicial officers, the authentic proxies in dematerialized form and the annexation of proxies in electronic private form, the meetings of notarial bodies by videoconference and the extension of the legal time limits provided for in the law containing organization of the notariat, the intervention of witnesses in an authentic will and the maintenance of the proceedings in progress before the commissions of designation and appointment of the Supreme Council of Justice. Amendments were tabled by Messrs. Verherstraeten and Aouasti and Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mrs Dillen and Mrs Bury. After the introductory presentation by Mr Verherstraeten, the main author, the discussion took place. By way of derogation from Rule 98/7, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee unanimously decided to proceed to the vote on the basis of the provisional opinion of the Council of State made available to members on 20 April 2020. Amendments Nos 1 to 14 and the articles of the bill were adopted successively. The bill as a whole, as amended and corrected on the legislative level, was adopted unanimously by a nominative vote. The committee agreed with Mr Verherstraeten's request to ask the Speaker of the House to discuss the bill at today's sitting. The committee agreed to an oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u127	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the authors for this bill, which will help us in the fight to reduce the COOVID-19 virus. The discussion by videoconference in committee went very well yesterday. We were able to proceed quickly to the vote and there was unanimity to bring the bill to the Chamber today. We have examined that proposal. I didn't invent the hot water, so I consulted several notaries. They had an important invention to the digital power of attorney. That is what the three amendments, which I will discuss together, are about. Those 3 amendments refer to Chapter 4 of the legislation. Actually, I'm saying the same thing I said yesterday. This was also discussed in committee yesterday. The first amendment seeks to amend the title of Chapter 4. The second amendment seeks to make changes to Article 6. And the third amendment seeks to delete Article 7 because it is no longer necessary if we are to implement the amendments to Article 6. I'm declaring myself. The digital power of attorney means having someone sign through the system itsme or via a digital signature. That person should not be present at that time either. In fact, the notary cannot verify whether that person did so in the right state of mind and whether he was not forced to sign. There is therefore a lack of clarity about this. The notaries with whom I have discussed this say that normally in the video conference that is then taking place, without power of attorney, the deed is discussed, with the notary having visual contact with the people who have to sign the deed afterwards. In practice, as a real estate agent I notice, there are often small details that still change. That could be an inheritance service or something. Then there are still minor adjustments to the deed. As soon as the deed is read, we will proceed to the signing. The signature can then be perfectly digital, such as with the app itsme and all the items listed in Article 6. The digital powers of attorney should not be used at that time. We also see that it is a simplification of the system. The digital powers of attorney are then free powers of attorney, they should not be advanced by the buyers or the other parties; all of that is no longer necessary, we just see a digital signature at the time when the video conference took place and everything was discussed. How do we amend Article 6? First of all, with Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Chapter 4 would then be changed. Instead of authentic powers of attorney, it would be "authentic digital signature via video conferencing." Amendment No 19 then replaces Article 6 in such a way that we no longer talk about an authentic power of attorney; however, the parties should appear before the notary via a videoconference, after which the signature can take place afterwards. Points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 remain the same. From paragraph 7 we are talking about the digital powers of attorney, so we are deleting that. Then we go to Amendment No. 20. In Article 7 on the elaboration of these notarial powers, we see that those costs, which are rewards, cannot be charged. That article should then cease to apply because those powers of attorneys no longer exist. We'd delete that article. I would once again ask colleagues to take this into account, because this would really be a better solution, even in the long term. In fact, we see in the article that this can last much longer and not only COOVID-related, but also for purchases abroad or by people who are abroad. This would add value to the notary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u128	Mr President, following Mrs Bury's speech, I can refer to what the Minister of Justice's representative said about this. The application proposal can also take effect in about a year's time, while there is a need for something that can be implemented immediately, which the present proposal meets. Mr President, I would like to use my speaking time to thank the reporter for the oral report. I would also like to thank all those who contributed to this proposal, in particular the cabinet staff and the colleagues who have been involved in a wide-ranging way in getting this proposal quickly on the agenda of the plenary. In these corona times, I think it is relevant to keep physical contacts to the strict minimum without compromising the fundamental rights of all parties involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u129	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the spread of coronavirus affects many sectors, including the wider judicial sector. If urgent measures have been taken to curb the spread of the virus as best as possible, we must now extend our efforts and respect, as far as possible, the social distancing that has been provided for in the various ministerial decrees. The WHO has reminded us, as soon as yesterday, that we will have to live a good time with this virus. In doing so, while waiting for a vaccine, we will have to continue to protect ourselves by ensuring, despite everything, the continuity of all services rendered to the population. Among these services, there is justice that must continue to be able to be delivered. The proposal aims to reduce physical contacts and meetings to allow only those that are truly essential. My colleague Zakia Katthabi has explained the measures that this objective entails and I will not go back to that. In any event, I would like to thank Mr Verherstraeten for his initiative and to welcome the constructive work that has been done in committee, since the amendments that have been tabled and voted on scrupulously respond to the opinion of the Council of State which has been communicated to us. Indeed, it seems to me essential to ensure legal certainty, even in the case of texts tabled and voted in an urgent manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u130	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u131	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1145/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1145/4) The title has been amended by the commission in "proposal for a law on various provisions in the field of justice and notariat in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus VOCID-19". The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal laying down various provisions on justice and notarial matters in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19." The bill has 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u132	Chapitre 4/Chapter 4 (Intitulé/Description) 18 Marijke Dillen cs (1145/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u133	• 19 years old Marijke Dillen cs (1145/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u134	• 20 - Marijke Dillen cs (1145/5) * * * * * * * Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u135	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u136	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5, 8 to 17.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u137	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u138	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marco Van Hees, Raoul Hedebouw, Greet Daems, Nabil Boukili. The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (651/7) The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (651/7) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. Mr John Crombez, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I can tell you anything: it has been more than 70 years since the Palestinian people suffered from colonization, violence, displacement, repeated bombings, blockades and deprivation of the most fundamental rights. This violence does not save women, the elderly or children. In fact, it is the country where the rights of the child are most violated. But in recent weeks, the Palestinian people, like all the peoples of the world, have also faced the VOCID-19 pandemic and the major health crisis, but the difference is that the Palestinians face it under illegal occupation by the Israeli army. This occupation makes the situation even more catastrophic. Look at all the difficulties and complications of having basic equipment, masks, tests at home and in other countries around the world. Look at the complications regarding the decisions to be put in place to control the epidemic, the urgency in which these decisions must be taken and implemented, and all the means necessary to put them in place. So imagine having to do this when you are deprived of your sovereignty, that you are not in control of your policy. And you must do so under the conditions imposed by another State that has absolutely no concern for your security. On the contrary, this State represents a threat. In a context where the Palestinian authority lacks everything – tests, masks, hydro-alcoholic gels, breathers and I pass it – colonial politics continues as if nothing had happened. The houses continue to be destroyed and hundreds arrested. But cynicism doesn't stop there. At the request of Israeli bosses, the colonial state brought Palestinian workers to work in Israel without any security or protection, against the will of the Palestinian Authority. Israel is accused by several observers and by the Palestinian Authority of deliberately spreading the virus. In Area C, a large part of the Palestinian population is deprived of treatment and testing. There is clearly a policy of discrimination and apartheid against Palestinians. Added to this is the question of political prisoners. In Israeli prisons, because there are already a large number of prisoners with chronic diseases, such as respiratory diseases, diabetes, and others, the lives of prisoners are in great danger. There is an urgent need to urge the Israeli authorities to ensure the conditions that protect detainees from the virus or otherwise release them, in particular the elderly, chronically ill persons, women and children, so that they can protect themselves at home. A request was made to that effect by several organizations. I believe that we must join this call and bring it to a successful conclusion. There is also the other great prison: Gaza. The situation of the Palestinians was just as inhuman and unhealthy. The Israeli government has long prevented the entry of medicines and medical equipment into Gaza. The blockade is already inhuman in itself, but in the situation of a pandemic that has also reached Gaza, it is completely criminal and intolerable. The blockade of Gaza must be lifted immediately. In addition to the political and social crisis that the Palestinian people face as a result of colonization, the health crisis is evolving towards a humanitarian crisis. The most vulnerable populations have increasingly difficult access to food. Solidarity has been organised around the world to send food. As if the situation were not sufficiently dramatic, Israeli forces confiscated food parcels to be distributed to quarantined families in Sur Baher, a village south of Jerusalem. The occupying forces broke into a school where the parcels were prepared. They arrested four members of the local emergency committee and seized 300 parcels of food from Palestinian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of Israel's continuing violations of international law and given that, since 1948, many United Nations resolutions have called Israel's colonial and discriminatory policies illegal, condemned them and called for immediate, proportionate and effective resolutions, it must be noted that all forms of international intervention and peace processes over the past 69 years have so far failed to convince or compel Israel to comply with humanitarian law, to respect fundamental human rights and to put an end to the occupation and oppression of the Palestinian people. We have to act! We can no longer accept those who return back to back Israelis and Palestinians or who continue the incantations concerning the hypothetical peace processes, of which it has become clear that the current Israeli government, like its predecessors, does not want anything at all. We cannot treat the Israeli State and the Palestinian people on an equal footing, as some Members have expressed during the debates in committee. On the one hand, we have a colonial state that resorts to violence with its army and, on the other hand, an oppressed people deprived of their rights and calls for its freedom and sovereignty. People of conscience in the international community have historically assumed the moral responsibility of combating injustice through various forms of boycott, withdrawal of investment and sanctions, as in the struggle to abolish apartheid in South Africa. That is also the point of this motion for a resolution. As other countries — Germany, Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands, to name but a few European countries — have done — this motion for a resolution seeks to identify avenues for Belgium's resolute action in order to contribute to respect for human rights and international law in Palestine. One of the articles that has been debated is the one which aims to ban the import and marketing of colonial products on Belgian territory, as called for by the Made in illegality campaign, on the basis of the obligations linked to respect for international law and to the demand, notably contained in UN Security Council Resolution 2334, and which calls for such a policy to also be pursued at the level of our European partners and the European Union as a whole. It is counterproductive to hide behind potential technical problems, as some political groups did during the debates in committee, because what we are asking here is to take a political position and then fight for it technically. Remember the Budget Amendment, White Blouses. Initially, this was not technically possible, but a political position was taken and subsequently the technique followed. Ladies and gentlemen, this health crisis has revealed many things to us. It has revealed the limits of our economic system and its market economy. It revealed the failure of liberalism and its anti-social recipes and of everyone for themselves. It has revealed that the real engines of our society are its workers. And, if we still had to demonstrate it, it revealed the barbarity and violence of Israeli colonization and the urgency of providing it with elements of response. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against the rejection of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u140	Mr President, it is always delicate to talk about Israel. It's like they're gonna dance with clogs on a table full of eggs. We have still not recovered from our shame about what we did to the Jews in 1940-1945. What else have we done? We have passed on the bill of our misconduct in Europe to the Palestinians. I will not repeat my colleague's sermone, and I am already telling you that I agree with the content of the resolution and will therefore vote against its rejection. This is based on what happened recently. In De Standaard of 30 March 2020, the fact was mentioned: " 91 COVID-19 patients were counted in the Palestinian territories last Sunday. In Gaza, the largest open-air prison in the world, 1.9 million people live in a sandbank of 41 km long and 6 to 13 km wide, hermetically sealed from the outside world, under the corrupt reign of Hamas and the terror of Israel. In addition to international food aid, there is a need for a survival economy, which is destroyed by the Israelis with the regularity of the clock." Or still. "Sometimes the Israelis spray poison on our crops. In other places, they let sewer water run over the Palestinian fields." Israel is responsible for the supply of hospitals and is seriously failing. Matthias Schmale of UNRWA literally says: "There are barely 60 beds for intensive care and there is a shortage of gloves, mouth masks and ventilators. The electricity's going out all the time. There is lack of clean water, lack of plumbing, lack of soap." I agree that ideas are being fought, but this is a crime and crimes are not condoned. Let me give a second example, which is why I support the resolution. The human rights organisation B'Tselem literally wrote that Jewish organizations recently destroyed two field hospitals in Khirbet Ibziq on the West Bank. Those field hospitals were there for the coronas victims. That has nothing to do with politics anymore, which has to do with crimes against humanity. That is why, as a right-wing politician, I support the motion for a resolution. That's another curse in the church, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u141	Mr President, Mr Samyn would give an explanation of vote on behalf of our group, but I did not register her for the debate, because that is not possible in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u142	You have a point. You have caught me giving in to Mr Dedecker. I'm sure you know my affinity with him. Normally, I can only give the floor to the rapporteur and the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u143	I assume she will be able to give an explanation of vote in the vote on this matter later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u144	An explanation of vote will, of course, always be possible, which is no problem at all. I must confine myself to the rapporteur and the author for this debate, and also for the other discussions that follow. Others are not allowed to ask for the floor. Mr Dedecker, that stays between us. You won't take advantage of that. That is not a precedent. No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u145	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Reccino Van Lommel, Erik Gilissen, Katleen Bury, Wouter Vermeersch, Hans Verreyt. The Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda proposes to reject this bill. (102/3) The Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda proposes to reject this bill. (102/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur is Mrs Depraetere, who refers to the written report. I now give the floor to one of the proposers of the bill, and that is Mr Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the committee meeting on 11 March, our proposal was rejected on the basis of an opinion from the Council of State which claims to demonstrate the unconstitutionality of our proposal. The strange thing is that we have based our bill on an earlier opinion from the Council of State which states that a language may be imposed, but not withheld. It has therefore not been the intention of our legislative proposal to exclude languages, but to regard their own language as a priority. The new opinion refers to the conflict with Article 30 of the Constitution, whereas that article of law has never been amended between the first and second opinions of the Council of State. According to the Council of State, it would be possible if the necessity could be demonstrated, which was apparently not necessary at the time, but is now suddenly proving to be an issue. Whatever the turn of events, we can demonstrate the need for one's own language. It seems to us only natural that a language of its own language should be a priority and be understandable to everyone. This immediately demonstrates the necessity to which the Council of State refers. There are many people among the population who are powerful only in the language of their language area and who are therefore unable to read foreign-language advertising. The Council of State has written down a lot of things that are not relevant to our bill. He assumes that we would like to ban languages, which is absolutely not true. So they've been looking at our bill with the wrong glasses. It is equally strange to refer to advisory practice, when there is no specific reference or reference. As far as we are concerned, the legislative proposal is pertinent and proportionate. I have noticed that parties in the hemisphere who are so keen to speak for our language now seem to be hiding behind an opinion that we do not think is relevant and proportionate. Colleagues of the N-VA, where is the time you stood up for your own language? I hope the people will remember this in advance. I therefore call on you to vote against the rejection, ladies and gentlemen. It is only natural that our people should receive advertising in their own language, which must still be primary and should therefore be preferred, and only in second place in another language. If we assume that our people speak tout court different languages, Parliament is not worthy to be Parliament because it has to speak, serve and speak the language of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u147	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u148	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Pas, Wouter Vermeersch, Annick Ponthier, EllenSamyn, Ortwin Depootere. The Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Labour proposes to reject this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. (759/2) The Special Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Activities proposes to reject this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. (759/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. Mr Van der Donkt, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which a government is formed in this country could, I believe, need some improvement. There are currently four models common. The first model in which the King is committed is completely obsolete. You will not doubt my good will if I want to keep the King from becoming vulnerable when he deals with political and governmental formation. After all, it is up to the King to remain politically neutral. The second model has already been proposed in this House by the N-VA, which accords the role traditionally played by the King to the President of the Chamber. This has the great advantage that this at least already breaks with the colloquium singular, but it has the permanent disadvantage that the government formation still goes through the carcan of participation. We know the third model in the Länder. There is the disadvantage that this does not create transparency and political renewal. We all know that agreements are being reached behind the scenes. Once the agreement has been reached and the debate on inquiry is really being conducted, it cannot really be conducted because the chalk lines are already fixed. The political agreement has already been concluded. Then everyone knows in advance that, regardless of any justified substantive comments, the majority against opposition will nevertheless be approved. Hence our proposal for a fourth model, the most democratic model. In our proposal, it is not the King, not the President-in-Office of the Council, nor the back chambers on the formation of the government, but the whole Chamber directs the formation council. It appoints the informers and the reformers, the opinions are public, everything is transparent. The Chamber may question the formatters about the opinions. This has the great advantage of ensuring that everything is done in a transparent way and, unlike the other three models, that is also the most democratic model. I think today's situation only proves that we can use a democratic model. The two largest parties were not involved in the formation of the federal government. Corona crises were even used/abused to do a coronacoup. The result is a situation in which mini parties that represent less than 8% of the population occupy half of the ministries. In order to avoid such matters in the future and to ensure that everything is done in a beautiful, democratic way, we propose constructively that an example be taken of the Dutch model. I have heard many colleagues here complain about the way in which governments have been formed over the past few months, and I would like to call on them to reconsider the model we are proposing, which may well be smoother.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u150	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u151	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Pas, Wouter Vermeersch, Ortwin Depoortere, Marijke Dillen, Nathalie Dewulf. The Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Labour proposes to reject this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. (908/2) The Special Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Activities proposes to reject this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. (908/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur, Mrs Valerie Van Peel, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u152	Mr President, in this House everything can be discussed and dealt with, as it should be in a democracy. It goes without saying that the proposals submitted require a review of the legal and legislative aspects, but in a democracy, it should not be possible for certain proposals to be dealt with for political or opportunistic reasons. We all know that the consideration we are experiencing here every week is about pro forma and that almost all the proposals are referred to the relevant committees. Unfortunately, however, we have to lay down a few exceptions to this every legislative period, because there are always some proposals from my group that we refuse to deal with. However, this has nothing to do with legal or legislative reasons. I have said in committee that this tends towards censorship and that this cannot be the intention of a democratic house. Mr Calvo then said that there are sometimes good reasons for refusing to discuss proposals. I asked him explicitly what reasons that might be, but unfortunately I did not receive an answer in committee. Mr President, I remember that we were also refused to consider our proposal for an orderly division of this country. At that time, you argued very strongly in favour of discussing it, and you quoted Voltaire. You hated what I said, but you would defend my right to say it with your life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u153	Ma'am, you shouldn't take that too literally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u154	You said it in French, but I understood it very well. Many in this hemisphere agreed with you at that time. This is a proposal to take action. We want to ensure that everything can be treated as it should be in a democratic home. This does not mean anything about the approval or assessment of the substance of a proposal, but rather about the democratic principle that all democratically elected people can put forward proposals here that can at least be discussed. I therefore call once again for the withdrawal of the recital. Questions such as urgency and the technical testing of legislation should not be a reason not to abolish the consideration. Other practical solutions are easy to find. This should certainly not prevent Members from voting against the rejection of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u155	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u156	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Pas, Wouter Vermeersch. The Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Labour proposes to reject this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. (1002/2) The Special Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Activities proposes to reject this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. (1002/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur, Mr Van der Donkt, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was part of the Working Party on Political Renewal last legislative term. It was almost as much on the news as corona these days. Every week, however, there were new proposals for greater transparency, among other things. One of the ideas that was supported there to ensure greater transparency was the mandates of the elected people: public mandates, private mandates, activities and other remuneration received by the Members of this House. We have already put forward a proposal at the time and I did so again because it was a great supporter of this working group on Political Renewal. Many, especially on the left side of this hemisphere, have advocated transparency. This proposal specifically requires Members of this House to declare remuneration for public mandates, for other professional activities they engage in, whether self-employed or within a company, and for their participation in boards of directors or management of companies. This declaration is then to be published in full transparency on the Court's website in an integral report. This proposal responds to the concerns I heard at the time from sp.a., Green and others, so I am counting on them to support this proposal and vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u158	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u159	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 February 2020, an appeal for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 4 March 2020 for the mandate of French-speaking federal mediator. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 February 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 4 March 2020 for the mandate of French-speaking Federal Ombudsman. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Jérôme Aass, Auditor with the Federal Ombudsmen, - Mr. Jean-Yves Bassambi Ilumbe, Parliamentary collaborator, - M. Frank Bels, managing director chez Bels Business GmbH & Co KG, - Mr. Thomas de Bergeyck, journalist/presenter at RTL Belgium, - Mr. Yves Derwahl, lawyer at the Eupen Bar, - Mr. Philippe Touwaide, Director of the Mediation Service for Brussels-National Airport, - Ms Martine Trznadel, Head of Mission to the Agency for Administrative Simplification, - Mr. Philippe Vande Castele, lawyer at the Antwerp Bar. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Jérôme Aass, auditor of the Federal Ombudsmen, - Mr Jean-Yves Bassambi Ilumbe, parliamentary assistant, - Mr Frank Bels, Managing Director at Bels Business GmbH & Co KG, - heer Thomas de Bergeyck, journalist/presentator bij RTL Belgium, - Mr Yves Derwahl, attorney at the Bar in Eupen, - Mr Philippe Touwaide, Director of the Office of the Brussels National Airport, - Mrs Martine Trznadel, chargée de mission at the Administrative Simplification Office, - Mr Philippe Vande Castele, lawyer at the counter in Antwerp. Given the level of linguistic knowledge of the other national languages (Dutch and German) set by the plenary session of 18 July 2019, the Conference of Presidents of 22 April 2020 proposes to exempt: - Mr. Jérôme Aass from the Dutch language test, - Mr Yves Derwahl from the German language test, - Mr Philippe Vande Castele of the Dutch and German language tests. In view of the level of linguistic knowledge of the other national languages (Dutch and German) adopted by the plenary session of 18 July 2019, the Conference of Presidents of 22 April 2020 proposes to: - exempt Mr Jérôme Aass from the Dutch language test, - exempt Mr Yves Derwahl from the German language test, - to exempt Mr Philippe Vande Castele from the language tests Dutch and German. In accordance with the opinion of the same Conference of Presidents, I propose that you declare Mr Frank Bels' candidacy inadmissible. In accordance with the opinion of the same Conference of Presidents, I propose that Mr Frank Bels' candidature be declared inadmissible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u160	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. The agenda also mentions a supplementary list of proposals for consideration by the Conference of Presidents. The agenda shall also include an additional list of proposals whose consideration has been requested from the Conference of Presidents. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u161	I come now to the point that is normally the exception, but it seems to be becoming the rule, namely the urgent requests. Firstly, there is an urgent request for the legislative proposal No. 1169/1 by Mr Van Hees cs establishing a solidarity coronatak on multimillionaires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u162	Mr President, with the debate on who is going to pay for this coronavirus crisis, it seemed to us important that this bill be given the benefit of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u163	As has become somewhat common practice in previous plenary sessions, I ask the question to the leaders of the political groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u164	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u165	Mr President, what I am telling you now applies to these and all the following requests for urgency, so that public opinion, which is following us closely, knows our policy. We support all the urgent proposals that are corona-related. However, the presence of the word "corona" in the text does not mean that it is a corona-related proposal. The proposal which now calls for urgency is an attempt to take a more structural measure and the proposers thought they could catch us by putting the word 'corona' on it, but it will not be. We therefore do not support the urgency that is now being asked. I will continue the same line with the following requests for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u166	Mr De Roover, in any subsequent request for urgency, I will ask you again, just to be sure, whether or not you support it, so that mistakes are ruled out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u167	Mr President, I agree with the previous speaker. For the same reason, we do not support the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u168	Mrs Pas does not support the request for urgency. Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Lachaert point out that their group does not support the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u169	Mr President, there is already a majority to refuse the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u170	Don't you want to say something?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u171	No, I see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u172	There is no majority for the emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u173	Mr President, I would simply like to point out that this is a one-off tax and not a structural tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u174	Mr Hedebouw, a further explanation is inadmissible. I'm sorry, but the debate is over. The Chamber has given its opinion and there is no majority in favour of urgency. So we come to point 5 of the list, the proposal No. 1172/1 by Mrs Dierick amending certain provisions of the Code of Economic Law as regards registration in the FBO and deferment of the solders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u175	Mr President, due to the corona crisis, part of the sector is asking to postpone the solder period. In that sense, I think an urgent discussion in the Chamber is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u176	Mrs. Fonck supports the emergency. Mr De Roover and Mrs Pas, Mr Piedboeuf. Mr Lachaert, would you like to add another proposal to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u177	That's right. Firstly, we support the urgency of Mrs Dierick's proposal. Secondly, there is also proposal No. 1183/1 because of our group, which is on the same subject. Actually, it was filed earlier, but they're coming in this order now. I'd like to set them up. I know that, as you have already announced, you want to ask for the opinion of the Council of State. I'd like that for both questions, if they're linked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u178	So you support the urgency requested by Mr Verherstraeten, but you ask for something instead, reciprocity. Mr Gilkinet agrees. I'll take a look around. There is unanimity for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u179	I also immediately inform you that I will consult the Council of State on both proposals. Then we have the bill No 1175/1 by Mr Boukili, Mr Van Hees and Mr Consular to amend the Consular Code in order to provide consular assistance to the Belgians of dual nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u180	Mr President, the urgency seems obvious here. I am thinking here of our fellow citizens who are stuck in Morocco. I think we should be able to have a parliamentary debate on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u181	Mr President, we have a text on the same subject, the bill amending the Consular Code with regard to consular assistance to persons with several nationalities (No. 1180/1). I would like to associate our text with the request for urgency. So, we make a single vote for both.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u182	Yes, you warned me. Does the House agree to vote at the same time on both proposals? I give you the floor to motivate him then or is that clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u183	That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u184	I'm looking at the group presidents... apparently there's no majority for these emergency requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u185	I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr. De Vriendt et al. on the relocation of vulnerable people from the camps in Greece (No 1177/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u186	Mr President, I will argue more here because there is an urgent humanitarian situation which has worsened with the Corona crisis. Other countries, such as Germany this week, have adopted a resolution, and I believe that Parliament must speak out and take an initiative as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u187	It is therefore a motion for a resolution. The cdH and CD&V support the emergency. The Liberals, the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang do not support her. On the other hand, the PS and sp.a support it, as well as Ecolo-Groen and the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u188	Mr Piedboeuf, I come to your proposal for a law amending Chapter II of Title III of the Act of 30 December 1992 laying down social and various provisions, relating to the introduction of an annual contribution to be paid by companies, intended for the social status of self-employed persons in order to postpone to 2020 the date of payment of the said contribution to 31 October (No 1178/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u189	Mr President, this is a matter of applying the same principle for companies, especially small companies, as for the self-employed, i.e. the deferral of the contribution due before 30 June. It is a matter of delaying it until October in order not to disrupt the already damaged cash flow. So, it's a simple deferral of contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u190	Mr Verherstraeten agreed. Mr De Roover, Mrs Pas and Mr Lachaert too. MM. Gilkinet, Hedebouw and Laaouej, as well as Ms Kitir also agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u191	I will seek the advice of the Council of State within five days. We are now considering the request for urgency for Mr Servais Verherstraeten's legislative proposal laying down various provisions on justice in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19, No. 1181/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u192	Mr President, this is a legislative proposal which limits physical contacts to what is strictly necessary. Today we have a legislative proposal before us which is particularly relevant to the notary. This new bill is particularly applicable to lawyers and bailiffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u193	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question. I'm looking at the group leaders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u194	I will also seek the advice of the Council of State within five days. We are now considering the urgent request for the proposal for a resolution by Mrs Jessika Soors on the possible development of an app to combat the Coronavirus COVID-19, and the need to respect human rights, and in particular the right to privacy, No. 1182/1. This is a parliamentary debate on this, which I think is important. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u195	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal tabled by your group colleague, Mrs Leen Dierick, concerning the arrangements for consumer credit in the context of the Coronavirus COVID-19 crisis. 1184/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u196	Mr President, this proposal concerns consumers who have been affected by the corona crisis in payment difficulties, in order to give them ease of payment, as we have already arranged for traders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u197	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u198	I will also seek the opinion of the Council of State within five days. There is also a need for urgency with regard to MM's proposal for a law. Hugues Bayet, Ahmed Laaouej et al. to reduce the VAT rate on protective medical equipment (No 1187/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u199	Mr President, these are masks and hydro-alcoholic products to wash your hands hygienically. The emergency speaks for itself. It is simply a matter of facilitating access to these essential products in the fight against coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u200	Mr President, unfortunately I shall be voting against. I do sympathise with the proposal, but I have heard that there are all kinds of legal objections about the content of reducing the VAT rate. I have informed myself of this and I fear that this will not be dealt with soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u201	Mr. Piedboeuf, you have the same consideration? [[Assent]] Mrs. Pas, do you support the urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u202	I leave the discussion of the content to the committee, but I support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u203	Mr De Roover and Mr Verherstraeten do not support urgency, but there is sufficient support in the hemisphere for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u204	Mr President, with all due respect for Mr Lachaert, I would point out that he did not dispute the urgency as such, but the technical validity of the proposed text. I therefore contest his challenge. We find ourselves in some confusion, Mr. Lachaert. We must decide on the urgency, not on the possible legal validity of a text for which a debate will be held in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u205	In any case, the emergency was obtained. Mr Lachaert, I have another request for urgency for Mr Robby De Caluwé's legislative proposal amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the pursuit of health care professions with a view to introducing a temporary impossibility of obtaining special exemptions for the exercise of certain parts of medicine by doctors from a third country, non-member of the European Union, No. 1188/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u206	Mr President, you have already explained it in the Conference of Presidents. I also announced the urgency. It is a COOVID-related proposal on how foreign care providers can operate here. The proposal was actually made by the government and has the same object as others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u207	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u208	I will also seek the advice of the Council of State within five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u209	Mr President, occupational pension institutions are due to report to the FSMA by 30 June. Given the current work and the impossibility of convening the bodies, it is a request for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u210	You are therefore asking for the urgency of the bill on exceptional measures for occupational pension institutions in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic (No. 1189/1). I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u211	I will also seek the advice of the Council of State within five days. We come to the vote, but Mrs Fonck, are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u212	Mr. President, excuse me. A member of my group, Vanessa Matz, spent his whole afternoon with the computer services but is unable to connect and therefore participate in the vote remotely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u213	I take note of your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u214	Mr President, the same applies to Mr Vanden Burre. He can't connect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u215	Mr President, we have the same technical problem for Mr D'Amico.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u216	Mr. Registrar tells me that Mrs. Matz is connected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u217	Mr. Chairman, I have given a written document to Mr. Clerk to tell him that Mr. Goblet is unable to log in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u218	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1005/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1005/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u219	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 146 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1146/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1146/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u220	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[109]] Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1139/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1139/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u221	Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marijke Dillen cs on the heading of Chapter 4. (1145/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marijke Dillen cs to the title of Chapter 4. (1145/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[18]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 147 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u222	Mr President, I note that one of my group members just pressed the wrong button. I hope that in a second attempt he will have the right voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u223	Vote on Amendment No 19 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 6. (1145/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 6. (1145/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Marijke Dillen cs on Article 7. (1145/5) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Marijke Dillen cs to Article 7. (1145/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 5) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u224	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1145/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1145/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u225	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u226	Mr President, the Flemish interest will abstain in the vote on the rejection of this resolution. The motion for a resolution contains truths, but is also not balanced. The Palestinian people have the inalienable right to self-determination. However, no reference is made anywhere to the crimes committed by Palestinian terrorist organisations. In our view, both sides are responsible for the current political situation, including the State of Israel, which, with an aggressive settlement policy, stands in the way of a peace process. The international forum certainly needs to focus on these issues. However, the present resolution is not an example of a balanced view of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u227	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u228	Yes 66 Yes Non 53 No. Abstensions 28 Abstentions Total 147 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 651/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. So 651/1 was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u229	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u230	Yes 127 Yes Non 19 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Therefore, Bill No. 102/1 is rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 102/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u232	Yes 108 Yes Non 38 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives No. 759/1 was therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives No. 759/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u233	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u234	Yes 101 Yes Non 45 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives No. 908/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives No. 908/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u236	Yes 128 Yes Non 18 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives No. 1002/1 was therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives No. 1002/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u237	Mr President, I apologise, I was wrong about vote 10. I wanted to vote for the rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u238	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u239	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-23-55-plenair-ip037x.u240	The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 30, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 30 April 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
