ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we had to change the agenda so that everyone's agenda could fit in well. We shall begin the topical and urgent debate this afternoon. Anyone can also follow online and ask questions from home. I hope there are no problems. I propose that we deal with the topical and urgent debate in the same way as we did last time. If you have one question, you have two minutes' speaking time. If you have two or more questions, you have a maximum of four minutes. If you have several questions, you can ask them at once, even if they are on the agenda later. After that, the Minister will reply and everyone is still entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u2	I will take this opportunity to respond to the problem of domestic violence. As we know, it is difficult for victims to file a complaint. One eloquent case has recently been mentioned by the press: a woman has been completely disfigured, while she has been complaining against her companion for five years. Several of us have questioned Minister De Crem on this issue. At the end of the meeting, he announced that an initiative would be taken with you, Minister, in the form of a circular that would be under development. Can you confirm that? What about the verification of the conditions for a possible release? Indeed, the perpetrator of the act in question could have been released under the sole condition of seeking work, instead of being prohibited from approaching his former companion, even though complaints had been lodged against him. This case thus shows a real problem of consistency. That is why I would have liked more information on the execution and monitoring of parole, particularly in the specific context of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u3	Colleagues, the sound is not very good. Maybe it's better to use a headset in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u4	Madam President, Minister, you are familiar with this debate. It is true that the federal government has announced that it is advising the wearing of the alternative fabric mask for the entire population, since surgical masks and FFP2 must of course be reserved for those who need it preferentially: caregivers, some patients but also more exposed professions. The government has not imposed any obligations, including in specific situations such as shops or public transit. However, this will be an important element for the release of containment. I wanted to come back to this with you. On the other hand, some of the Belgian municipalities are taking initiatives, others are waiting to see what the federal government is going to do. Can you clarify the situation? Will you foresee the possibility of producing and therefore distributing fabric masks to the entire Belgian population? Are you going to do this through the municipalities? The question of filters also arises. Will any arrangements be made by the federal government to produce and make available these filters? Or will we stay within the framework of the tutorial proposed by the SPF Santé with the use of an alternative filter (tote paper, coffee filter)? I believe it is important to clarify the situation so that all Belgians are in the best possible conditions in order to maximise the barrier measures once we are out of confinement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to question you, as has Mr. De Crem on domestic violence, in particular on the continuation of the working group involving the interior and justice offices. A second meeting of this group was scheduled to take place last Friday. I would therefore like to know whether other measures to protect victims of domestic violence were mentioned at this meeting. On the other hand, this morning we had some discussions with the Minister of the Interior, who assured us that he would take steps in consultation with you to take a circular to the attention of the police, a circular on the measures to be taken by the police. This includes contacting victims who have filed complaints for the past three months. It is also a question of making pharmacists referents, as is the case in other countries. Minister, can you confirm this information? Indeed, as I said to your colleague earlier yesterday, a victim was not able to lodge a complaint because the police zone considered that there was no urgency. Dramatic situations are experienced with victims who do not feel protected, especially during this difficult period when confinement is a source of tension in different households. Minister, what follow-up do you have on these questions? What action will be taken in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u6	Madam President, I am surprised that some of my questions from the committee of 8 April 2020 have been placed on today's agenda. My questions this week are those at the end of the agenda and I refer to the written text for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u7	Minister, in view of the news this morning, I would add that Minister De Crem has confirmed to us that he will contact you to consider further measures to combat domestic violence. I would like to have more clarification on this, particularly with regard to the monitoring and enforcement of temporary removal measures from the home that remains a node in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u8	Madam President, I will try to be brief. Two weeks ago, Minister, I was already questioning you about domestic violence and the difficulty for the victims, precisely, to escape in order to ask for help. In particular, you referred to the instruments that exist in this regard, recalling them. Last Friday, a new inter-ministerial conference was also held on the subject in order to pursue the objectives already established. I come back to you today to take stock of the situation and to stress once again the need to strengthen the existing arrangements. Let me ask you these questions. Can you provide us with an update on the development of this situation? Have the impact of the coronavirus crisis and containment been observed at the police and prosecutorial levels? What decisions were made at the conclusion of the April 17 meeting? What about the possibility of emergency relay points provided by pharmacies, as discussed, to accommodate and assist victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u9	Madam President, since it is customary to be short, I too will try to shorten. Crime statistics tell us that a series of events involving "usual" crime are on the decline. On the other hand, there is a specific crime in this period of VOCID-19, which has developed, whether in terms of the trafficking of masks, false drugs, theft of masks, etc. Particular attention is given to cybercrime. In those times when people are confined to their homes and rely heavily on their computers, it seems that phishing attempts have grown exponentially. Minister, I will ask you the following questions. Can you take stock of the impact of the crisis on crime? What tools have been put in place by the criminal justice system to effectively combat this so-called "coronavirus" crime? What mechanisms have been deployed to adapt to this situation, particularly with regard to cybercrime? Has an information campaign been put in place to prevent such cybercrimes and to avoid as many future victims as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, I will also shorten the point. Some questions were aimed at taking stock of the situation in general. I'll listen to you and read your answers. Other questions are intended to clarify the answers you provided last week. In connection with this, the echoes from the field confirm what you were saying last week about a number of measures that have been taken and that are different from one prison to another. It is true that both prisoners and prison staff experience this unequal treatment between prisoners in a somewhat bitter way. Mr. Minister, should we not try to harmonize what is offered to inmates during this crisis, rather than some who feel less well treated than others? Another question was to take stock of what we heard after the first debate. You were talking about places in Bruges if there were any sick people in prison. You told us there were enough seats. Meanwhile, we learned that there was an initiative to accommodate inmates who would be ill by a probable requisition from the former AZ hospital. Minister, do you confirm this information? We've heard everything. We have seen reports with visits for compliance. Can you tell us where that is? What justified this need? Is there a worsening of the situation or not? I'm joining Mrs. Fonck on the issue of masks. I must say that I was surprised, but I still saw with great hope your designation in this folder of masks. I thought we'd probably finally have a more coordinated management. It turns out that's not the case. I'll take stock of the situation you have to deal with. I wanted to say it. It is true that every day we, as parliamentarians, have to justify choices that are made. I'm not throwing the stone at you. On the other hand, where I have some difficulty in justifying the current position, it is on communication. An announcement has been made. In preparation for the break-up, the federal government is committed to providing masks for citizens. And then, a few days later, we learn that this will not be the case. This is difficult to understand, especially as we see statements, in particular from public transport services, which themselves tell us that they will not be able to envisage a definity without an obligation to wear masks, be it STIB, SNCB or TEC. If there is indeed an obligation to wear masks, I think it adds to a responsibility that will be ours to provide these masks. If the municipalities are left with this responsibility, they do not have the same budget. As Mrs Fonck has said, each mask is sewed in a different way, without following a protocol, without a common basis of mandatory criteria. We want to understand what happened. I invite you to reopen the discussion because, in the interests of equal treatment for citizens, the federal government has a responsibility in terms of offering these masks. Recently, I read with great attention an interview in La Libre Belgique, in which you mentioned the need to extend some of the measures taken in the context of this pandemic of VOCID-19. I regretted this announcement, because when we voted for the special powers and trust in this government, some of us, made you a trial of intent, saying that we would take advantage of this order to move things beyond the deadline. We have resisted this and, until now, I find that we stand by the limits. The statement you made lit up a series of indignations, including the issue of extending hearings by videoconference. Could you tell us more? Do you confirm this willingness to extend some of these measures? How far would that go? What royal decrees do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u11	Minister, in the United Kingdom, all prisoners, except for a few categories (convicted for sexual crimes and terrorism), regardless of the length of the sentence, can leave prison if they are two months from the end of their sentence. The wearing of the electronic bracelet is mandatory and this time is counted in the penalty remaining to be served. In Belgium, the interruption of the execution of the sentence is considered to be a period during which the execution of the sentence is suspended. I am not saying that the measures you have taken are not adequate. I congratulate you and the government on the boldness and courage with which you have dealt with this issue. However, perhaps we could go further. In order to limit the spread of VOCID-19 in prison, it would be wise to send as many prisoners as possible to their homes while ensuring that the execution of the sentence continues and that they are kept at home for the safety of our fellow citizens. The wearing of the electronic bracelet is a decision which should be taken in consultation with the Communities. However, given the sensitivity of the subject and the fears that the release of prisoners may give rise to, can you tell me what accompanying measures are being taken to monitor detainees and to ensure that their release is properly carried out in connection with the VOCID-19 measures? In addition, it appears that some detainees are hiding their symptoms because they fear being either put in solitary confinement or sent to the care unit at Bruges Prison. Extremely shocking details have recently been revealed in the press concerning serious hygiene and treatment problems, particularly at Marneffe prison. Do you confirm this situation? If so, how do you explain it? Finally, I am pleased that the government has increased testing capacity. When do you expect these capabilities to cover prison officers and inmates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u12	Madam President, I apologize for my delay and thank you for your flexibility. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice about the new jurisdiction that he has recently been in charge of, namely, the production of fabric masks as part of the necessary deconfinination measures. Contradictory messages have been sent. First of all, the Prime Minister informed us in plenary that you had received this assignment, Minister. You had taken it in hand with a lot of dynamism and will. You had so far informed us of your willingness to have masks produced centrally for the benefit of all our fellow citizens and even to consider how to distribute them. And last weekend, patatras! You were apparently sending the message – you will confirm it to us – that you are giving up on this centralized production, which seems to us logical both in terms of economies of scale, security and for many other reasons. Since then, the Union of Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia and its Brussels equivalent have reacted by asking the federal state to pursue its first intention, which we believe was the right one. Minister, would you please let us know the status of the case and what your intentions are? I hope you will confirm that we have a poor understanding of the situation and that you will implement this centralized command. If so, could you tell us what your partners are? Walloon, Brussels and Flemish firms could collaborate on this project. When will these masks be made available to our fellow citizens? How will they be distributed? It really seems to me important to be able to make the clarity as quickly as possible with regard to the expectations of citizens who must also be equal in definity and in their choice whether or not to wear the mask. There is a clear responsibility on the part of the federal state in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u13	Are there any colleagues from political groups who have not asked a question at this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u14	Madam President, I forgot to ask a question. Minister, at a time when some sectors are beginning to think about their deconcentration, I would like to know what is happening on the institutional side. Is it possible to organise visits? I was one of those who, at the announcement of visits to the rest homes, despite all the difficulties that this can cause, welcomed this news with great happiness, reacting as a family rather than as a political one. At the prison level, families would also be pleased to hear that there is a prospect of visits, whether in the short or medium term, under very strict conditions. Has any thought been given to this effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the questions. You have more questions than I have answers. Before replying, I would like to make something clear to you first and foremost. First of all, I am not used to communicating about my intentions. If I do, it's usually within the framework of a well-thought-out plan. For the time being, such a communication would be dangerous, because it would be tantamount to maintaining expectations that would ultimately not be legitimate. I will therefore ask you not to lend me any intentions – as has become the habit – in the light of this difficult moment in our history – and I am not just talking about Belgium. Communicating is good, but you have to be sure of it first. With regard to the fight against domestic violence, in particular that affecting women, I can refer to my reply of 8 April, adding that this fight has obviously remained a priority. Circular 4/2006 on partner violence and Circular 18/2012 on the residence ban remain fully applicable. The awareness-raising of judges continued, including through the dissemination, through the network of expertise and prosecutors general, of the best practices identified. Thanks to the Act of 5 May 2019, legal assistants are mandated to temporarily prohibit residence in order to assist and monitor the remote person during the period concerned. This legal provision entered into force on 1 January last. As part of the network of expertise in the area of crime against persons of the College of Attorneys General, a directive has been drawn up to give shape to this mandate. The circular on the temporary prohibition of residence in the case of domestic violence aims, inter alia, to take into account the recommendations made in the evaluation report produced by the support service of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to encourage prosecutors to take advantage of this additional tool in the fight against domestic violence and to integrate it into their criminal policy in this regard. The circular is currently subject to signature by the relevant ministers. Currently, the College of Attorneys General is seeing a downward trend in crime. With regard to domestic violence, the increase in the number of reports to the various hotlines seems to be gradually reflected in the prosecutor's files. At the two preparatory meetings of the Inter-Ministerial Conference (ICM) on the issue of violence against women on 2 and 17 April, between the offices of federal ministers and federated entities, several measures were taken in the areas of prevention, protection, victim support, filing of complaints, prosecution and trial. The ICD meeting on the issue of combating violence against women will be held on 8 May under the coordination of the Secretary of State of Brussels, Ms Ben Hamou. Decisions taken during the meeting will be communicated at the end of the meeting. About the Family Justice Centers, I can tell you the following. They have proved their worth in the fight against intra-family violence. By involving various partners in the welfare sector, the aid, the police and the judiciary, these centres have established cooperation on the basis of the case consultation and the case coordination. In Flanders, several Family Justice Centers have already been established with the help of the Flemish Minister of Welfare. In Brussels and Wallonia the case consultation does not yet exist, but possible interpretations are being examined. The Family Justice Centers also continue to work in the current circumstances, but of course also take the appropriate measures to function safely, for example via telephone consultation. I would remind you that, pursuant to the new Article 458b of the Criminal Code, the case consultation has become possible. Parts of information covered by professional secrecy or by the secrecy of the investigation may be authorised under strict conditions. Since then, many cooperation protocols have been drawn up in the implementation of the COL 4/2.1.118 on case-consultation and professional secrecy in order to allow for the sharing of professional secrecy. The so-called Courage Protocol that exists in Antwerp has been and remains in force for a long time. The Protocol provides for a form of case-based consultation which implements a recommendation from the Child Abuse Protocol and which constitutes cooperation with the Integrated Youth Assistance and Trust Centres for Child Abuse. The Attorney General of Antwerp informed me that there has been no suspension of work. In the fight against intra-family violence, I have always been a strong supporter of the case consultation and case coordination. So I am certainly prepared to continue to press for concrete implementation of these good practices in the context of an inter-ministerial conference. This is not a measure that can be taken and implemented very quickly in the context of the temporary situation of the COVID-19 crisis, because building a lasting relationship of trust in cooperation is crucial. I cannot answer some of your questions, since the subjects are not within my competence. Prevention policy and public awareness actions do not fall within the competence of the judiciary, although the College of Attorneys-General has already made it clear that it will, at present, take severe action against various forms of crime, including against the crimes of violence. The assistance and protection of victims is the responsibility of the Communities, which have also carried out structural consultations with the judiciary. The same rule applies to shelters. With regard to matters relating to the lodging of complaints with the police, I must refer you to my colleague the Minister of the Interior, whom you questioned this morning and with whom I have already discussed the matter. With regard to online cat issues on different sites, I should also refer you to my fellow ministers both at the federal level and to the federated entities that have competence in this area. Finally, the medical and psychological follow-up of the victims is not the responsibility of your servant. Mr Aouasti, you are asking me about pandemic-related crime and fake sites. In the short time available to answer your oral question, it is not possible for me to provide statistical data. On 2 April 2020, the College of Attorneys General issued guidelines on combating fake online sales sites and false information sites. These directives are included in COL 10/2020. They include measures to combat online shops offering for sale counterfeit and worthless medicines or medical equipment, which are supposed to provide protection against the coronavirus pandemic. Reference can also be made to COL 9/2017 of 14 September 2017 on the policy of investigation and prosecution of ransom software. With regard to the question of an information campaign, I can refer you to the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (CCB). It goes without saying that prevention against cybercrime is the top priority. It is therefore to be welcomed that the CWB has considerably strengthened its efforts to detect cyber threats and raise awareness among users, and that it has issued an update several times a week. As regards the increase in cyber-harassment, and specifically with regard to the broadcast of a video of a collective rape of a girl in Liège to which Mrs Schlitz refers in her question, I can provide you with the following information from the General Prosecutor's Office in Liège. For the acts of rape itself, all the minors in the case – there were five – were placed in a public youth welfare institution, and the two adults remained under arrest until the trial. The case was decided on March 20th. The two adults were sentenced to five years' suspended imprisonment for two thirds of the sentence. The Attorney-General's Office has also confirmed to me that it has appealed against this sentence, which it considers insufficient. With regard to the recent rebroadcasting of these images, I can confirm that they have been deleted directly at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The necessary steps are therefore taken to stop the broadcast and to identify the author. The network of expertise in criminal matters against public prosecutors has recently invited prosecutors to report any unusual litigation or phenomena related to containment measures that would require special attention. At this point, nothing special has gone up. Thus, there is not yet any awareness of an upsurge in this type of fact, although the Public Prosecutor's Office remains very attentive to any phenomenon that would require a reaction on its part. On the other hand, for this period of confinement, the Child Abuse section of the DJSOC Central Directorate of the Federal Police, which took over the management of Child Focus's denunciations, has seen an increase in reporting of the distribution of material related to child sexual abuse. It should be pointed out, however, that this reality can be explained both by an increase in the distribution of images and by the fact that people have more time to denounce. It is impossible to determine the main cause. When the facts are committed in Belgium, the police identify those responsible and draw up minutes. When the facts are committed abroad, information reports are drawn up and exchanged to the countries concerned via the Europol or Interpol channel. Your question about the means put in place by the police forces is not within my competence. Then I come to the questions put by Mrs Bury concerning the riots in Anderlecht. The Attorney General of Brussels has transmitted to me the following information, I quote: "In the context of the incidents, 147 administrative arrests were carried out. There were two court arrests. One minor got a report for a matrack found. The juvenile judge is apprehended and placed the young person for 15 days by order of 12 April 2020. There was also another minor, residing in the judicial district of Tournai, who did not fall within the jurisdiction of the Brussels parish. 172 minutes were drawn up with code 62 for failure to comply with the protection measures. These will be followed in accordance with the criminal law guidelines provided for in the COL 6/2020. There's a P.V. against an unknown for armed rebellion. That is currently under discussion. A pv was also prepared for theft of a weapon. The file is being examined. At the moment, no unsub has been arrested. A pv was also prepared for damage, which is also being treated. Finally, a pv was drawn up for disturbance of public order. It is an ongoing investigation at the level of the Search and Investigation Service, with a view to identifying the suspect." To that extent, my answer to the questions put by Mrs Schlitz, Mrs Matz, Mrs Zanchetta, Mr Boukili, Mrs Bury and Mr Segers, or at least to that particular part. You will have found that we have divided the questions according to the subject matter. I come to Mrs Rohonyi, Mrs Matz and Mrs Gilson's questions about the wearing of the electronic bracelet and the shortage of electronic bracelets. As part of the sixth reform of the State, the powers of the Chambers of Justice have been transferred to the federated entities since 1 July 2014. The same is true for the implementation of electronic monitoring. You must therefore ask your questions about orders and purchases of electronic bracelets, the monitoring of needs and available bracelets, and the financing of employment and supervision of these measures to the competent ministers of the federated entities. When I compare the numbers before the Coronavirus attack and those of yesterday, I find that in six weeks, about 270 fewer people wear an electronic bracelet. On 6 March 2020, the Kingdom had 1,607 persons sentenced under electronic supervision in execution of sentences and 443 persons under electronic supervision in pre-trial detention, a total of 2,050. On 22 April 2020, there were 1,339 convicted persons and 441 suspects, a total of 1,780. As a result, the number of electronic bracelets has decreased in part. Only in the case of Dutch-speaking suspects in pre-trial detention did the number increase by about 70. These are independent decisions taken by the investigating judge or the investigating court, to which I am in no way bound. In addition, the regulations on the conditions and application of electronic surveillance, including accompanying and controlling modes, have not been amended as a result of the coronavirus crisis. This applies to the Pre-trial Detention Act, the Law on the External Legal Status of Convicted Persons and Ministerial Circulars for persons sentenced up to three years in prison. I am always willing to engage in dialogue and help with issues related to electronic monitoring. However, I recall that I have no authority with regard to the implementation of electronic monitoring. As regards the guarantee of the proper execution of the "VOCID-19 measures", convicted persons released under the temporary suspension of sentence and early release measures up to a maximum of six months before the end of the sentence are effectively monitored. All files are carefully examined by the prison director and his services. In this regard, it analyses the feasibility of the measure for the person concerned with a view, inter alia, to avoiding the recurrence or anxiety of the victims. These are always conditions that the persons concerned must respect under the penalty of re-incarceration. With regard to the files of convicted persons and specifically with regard to intra-family violence, I can say that the prison director is always checking whether there are any counter-indications for the convicted person who is eligible for a penalty interruption. Those counter-indications may relate to the risk of committing new offences or to the distress of the victims. This also applies, of course, to those who have been punished for intra-family violence where the place and the environment of reception are particular concerns. The director also always asks for the agreement of the residents of the reception environment, the so-called home. The Director shall also attach to his decision the conditions that the convicted person may not commit offences and/or alarm the victims. In the event of non-compliance with the conditions, the Director may revoke the decision. If the convicted person seriously endangers the physical or psychological integrity of third parties, the King's Attorney may order the provisional arrest. For the release of persons at the end of their sentence, the counter-indications relate to the provision of shelter and sufficient means of subsistence. They are also subject to similar conditions, which give rise to withdrawal in the event of a breach. As with other early releases, no formal permission from the roommates is required here. The interruptions and early release, including the conditions, shall be notified to the police and to the court of the place of residence. The data is stored in the police database. There are no records yet that have identified problems of intra-family violence, at least in the electronic surveillance sector. I now turn to the questions raised in connection with the prison system in the broad sense. This is Ms. Khattabi's question about the figures for detainees and staff. A total of thirteen inmates have so far been tested positive for VOCID-19. Two in Saint-Gilles, one in Forest, one in Marche, one in Marneffe, two in Namur, two in Malines, five in Turnhout. Mons' ex-prisoner is not counted because of his release. There are currently 50 inmates in medical isolation under constant observation. A total of 61 staff members have been tested positive for VOCID-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic. Of these, 36 are currently absent due to VOCID-19, and 25 staff members are cured and returned to work. To date, 411 detainees have benefited from the suspension of the sentence as provided for in Royal Decree No. 3 of 9 April 2020. In addition, 180 detainees were released in advance up to 6 months before the end of the sentence under the same order. The total number of patients among technical and surveillance staff peaked on 27 March with 1797 absent. Since then, the total number has gradually declined to 999 absent on 20 April. There are no significant differences between institutions. In any event, prisons have the staff to carry out their tasks in times of crisis. If you wish, Mrs Khattabi, I can transmit to the secretariat of the committee the figures per institution as well as those for the other categories. Mr Segers, I come to your question on protective equipment. The prisons themselves are responsible for the production of FFP1 mouth masks. There are sufficient masks for all staff and for external persons who have to enter prison for professional reasons. FFP2 masks shall be made available in case of contact with infected inmates. There is also sufficient stock in prisons, provided that it is handled sparingly. Like other sectors, prisons remain critically dependent on continued production and supply. All prisoners who work in the household service, the workshops and so on also get masks. The Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions has indeed received supplies of gloves and hand gel. There is more than enough hand gel in the prisons and there is regular delivery by civil protection. At present, there are still enough gloves, but the Directorate-General, like other sectors, is also critically dependent on production and delivery. Mr Segers, I would like to ask you about the measures relating to prisoners who have been in contact with an infected colleague. Colleagues of infected prisoners are kept in medical isolation. Other inmates from the same section didn't. There will be compartmentalisation. By that, I mean that inmates from a section where an infected inmate was present do not come into contact with other inmates of the facility. Currently, these prisoners do not yet wear a mouth mask, but they are being provided for in their production. The target date is early May. In addition, several targeted tests are also carried out. Then I come to the questions about the COVID-19 department for inmates at the Jan Portaels Hospital in Vilvoorde. Mrs Khattabi, indeed, the creation of a VOCID-19 service for detainees at the Jan Portaels hospital in Vilvorde is under way. For the time being, the prisoners tested positive for VOCID-19 are regrouped at the medical centre of Bruges prison, but we must prepare ourselves in case this solution is no longer enough. The rooms of the inmates who would be treated at the AZ Jan Portaels site will be located in a separate building from the hospital's patient rooms. The possibility of occupying the buildings is foreseen within one to two weeks, but the protocol must first be signed. As a first step, it is an additional capacity of 26 beds, but it can be increased to 50. At the site, medical personnel from Jan Portaels Hospital, National Defence and Saint-Gilles Prison, security personnel from Brussels prisons, National Defence logistical support and federal police monitoring of the site are planned. You will understand that for security reasons, I cannot give you precise figures. I come to the administrative situation of staff who are subjected to preventive quarantine on the basis of a medical certificate from the treating doctor. I understand that the situation is not easy for the staff involved. We have looked at the situation presented in detail and faced with the rules in force. When a staff member submits a medical certificate and is on sick leave, we are obliged as an employer to consider the staff member sick. The fact that an official enters the system of disponibility or falls back on the guaranteed wage at the sickness fund is therefore merely a - and, in this case, unfortunate - application of the rules in force as they are contained in the latest letter on behalf of the Minister of Civil Service. Mr Boukili, with regard to support for prison guards, communication platforms and consultation with trade unions, our prison staff perform excellent work on a daily basis in difficult circumstances. We leave it to the citizens to decide whether they want to take an initiative to support them. There is a discussion forum within DG PPE, through which Directors can actively contribute to strategic initiatives by sharing good practices. In the context of the coronavirus crisis, the prison intranet has posted an updated daily FAQ on e-learning, the purpose of which is the use of protective equipment. There is also a specific e-mail address through which all staff members can ask questions and receive answers to their concerns, either directly or via the FAQ. In times of crisis, it is important that communication be uniform and clear for all employees. The P&O management department, in collaboration with the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work, has established a psychological support pool for all prison staff during this period of coronavirus-related crisis. This pool is in the form of permanences that have been scheduled since Monday, 6 April, for the entire duration of the crisis. Its purpose is to support staff of DG PPE who are facing a difficult situation in their workplace due to the health crisis and containment conditions. All initiatives were taken in consultation with all parties concerned. Even in times of crisis, the senior consultation committees are organized. The last one was held yesterday afternoon in a good atmosphere. Now I come to the questions by Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Khattabi about video calls in prisons and measures to compensate for suspended prison visits. All prisons have the necessary laptops to hold video conferences via Cisco Webex Meeting. As I mentioned earlier, this technology is widely made available to the Justice Department. In addition, the project starts to organise a virtual visit for the prisoners via the same technology, which we will phase out. The first prisons received the additional laptops from Friday 24 April, the rest the week after. One laptop per hundred inmates is delivered. The laptops that the prisons receive are already configured and booted to ensure technical safety. The software has been installed and the addresses for the prison from which the invitation to a conference departs have been created. They are therefore technically safe and ready for use. Visitors who are already on the visit list, and visitors who are automatically allowed by the basic law on the prison system, are eligible for videoconferencing. There is only videoconferencing possible with one contact address. The inmate chooses one person per session with whom he or she wants to speak and gives the correct e-mail address in advance. Inmates are given a time slot. In this regard, an attempt will be made to provide for some flexibility. A conversation lasts 20 minutes. It takes ten minutes per trip, which means that two calls per hour can be made via a laptop. The number of laptops made available guarantees at least one call per week. If more calls are possible, this can also be allowed. These are obviously calls by video conferencing because normal calls are much more frequent and, in general, can take place from the cell. The virtual visitor can receive a call on a PC, laptop or smartphone by downloading an application. This ensures maximum availability for the recipient. As with video-conferencing, during hearings and interrogations, sufficient distance will be provided between the detainees and the laptop to avoid manipulation. The laptop will be cleaned after each session. Following the extension of the measures related to coronavirus until 19 April and in a second stage until 3 May, it was decided to reapprove a call credit of 20 euros to all detainees, as compensation for the suspension of visits. As before, the credit will be granted in two tranches of ten euros. The twenty euros have a limited validity period and can be used to call until the end of the detention. It goes without saying that the initiatives that you are reporting locally have a budgetary impact that is in addition to the one related to the financial compensation that has already been granted. However, my services continue to examine what other activities may still be in place to offset the negative effects of containment. A scenario for deconfining must certainly be prepared now, but it is premature to set out the modalities of such a scenario. I am also pleased to inform you that only three incidents have occurred since the previous topical debate on tensions and small uprisings in prisons on 8 April 2020. Twice prisoners refused to come back after a walk, namely in Root on 8 April and in Antwerp on 12 April 2020. After consultation, they returned to prison without violence. Once a convict committed aggression against a guard in Nivelles Prison. So far, my answers on the prisons. This is how I deal with the questions of masks. As you know, domestic and international markets for the production of medical equipment are severely disrupted. At times there are not enough offers, at others there are too many. Moreover, the quality of the supply is less certain than in normal times. This is a real challenge, especially for our country, but the government is following the situation very closely. At the government's request, I took the responsibility to investigate the possibilities of starting domestic production for these product categories, knowing that our country is facing short- and medium-term stock shortages; these are specifically personal protective equipment and medical devices, only in the event that existing imports and domestic production are not sufficient to meet the demands. There is therefore no question of national production of medicines or tests. I am modestly trying to play a coordinating role behind the scenes, which is why you will not be surprised that I am not extending on the subject. In this context, and, of course, in the immediate context of deconfinity, there is the question of wearing the fabric mask for the general public. We note that the market for this type of mask is still in the process of being organized, especially taking into account the issue of short-term volume. Traditionally, Belgium does not produce masks – now traditional – called non-woven, namely surgical masks and FFP1 and FFP2 masks; they were all imported. A national production of these masks has begun, but these are not the ones we're talking about. We are talking about fabric masks still produced in small numbers, by the textile making sector for the medical, for the international market. But of course, this is not enough to supply a large country, even if it is small and has some 11 million inhabitants. In recent days, therefore, the government has discussed this factual situation in the market, taking into account several local initiatives that are emerging. It is in this context that I have indeed had contacts with the associations of cities and municipalities. And I still have some. I am confident that, in the short term, the government will succeed in providing a framework for the production of masks in mainstream fabric, so called community masks, for the period of deconfination. This will be done until the market is organized. I don't know if you know the original name of the Société générale de Belgique in Dutch. That was the National Society for the Promotion of the House Fellowship. In Dutch, l'industrie meant historical houseflijt. As a first step, it is to this industry of families, fathers and mothers, that we will try to appeal using non-woven fabrics. And I hope that distribution can be done through the municipalities. As soon as we are ready to communicate, we will communicate. I therefore ask you for a little patience on this subject and to avoid nervousness. We do what we can but nothing is obvious in this world in which, as Elsschot said in Dutch: "There is a gap between the law and reality and there are practical objections between them, such as between the dream and the act." With regard to Mrs Sarah Schlitz's question on the reorganization of prosecutors' offices and alternate guards, the coordinator of the network of expertise in the field of crime against persons, Mrs Laouar, confirms to me that in each district, the task force organises itself, in good agreement with the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to deal during this crisis with all urgent requests and cases for which the parties wish to resort to the written procedure, and in order to enable the latter to give an opinion when he deems it appropriate. In addition to this civil treatment of the problem, the Public Prosecutor's Office also has criminal and protective approaches where the situation so warrants. In this regard, as has already been reported, prosecutors and police agencies are organizing themselves to continue to deal with all situations that require an immediate response. During this period, prosecutors are also not understaffed, nor are they able to render their written opinions, in a civil context, or to initiate criminal proceedings. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office has already reported that even in this crisis of coronavirus, combating domestic violence remains a priority and that the guidelines on domestic violence continue to apply. In accordance with COL 4/2006, revised in 2015, on violence between partners, the offence of non-presentation of children, in accordance with article 432 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, is also considered to be a form of domestic violence. This constitutes a violation of the child's right to maintain personal relations with one of his or her parents. Consequently, the prosecutor may decide, depending on the specific situation, to also take criminal action. Even in times of crisis of coronavirus, this is still in effect and may even be a priority given the child's vulnerability and need for affection. With regard to Mr Aouasti's question on the situation of court interpreters in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic, I can reply that the possibility of support measures for interpreters and possible applications falls within the competence of the Minister of Independents. Even during this crisis, the continuity and functioning of justice must be guaranteed. Within the judicial system, the College of Courts and Courts, the College of Public Prosecutions and the Administration of the Judiciary have issued binding directives to implement the measures taken by the Government. These measures and guidelines have been in force since 18 March 2020 and are also valid for interpreters, judicial experts and other providers. I asked the representatives of colleges and bar associations the question again yesterday in order to know their needs in the organization of hearings. They raised problems, some of which related to the work of the interpreters. For some problems, pragmatic solutions have already been found. These best practices must now be disseminated. For the other issues raised, they will return to me in a short time with proposals for solutions. The Justice FPS will do everything it needs to meet the needs of the ground, as it has done since the beginning of the crisis. A commitment was made to finalize a best practices guide and actions to be taken in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic in the coming days. Some interpreters already use their own interpretation suitcase. Initial investments were made, with the order of headphones and microphones, additional screens and laptops. The FPS sets out a list of the volumes needed to restart the operation to a normal rhythm. As video conferencing is used for contact between the lawyer and the client, it can also be used in times of crisis for the interpreter. I now turn to the questions put by Mr Segers, Mrs Katthabi and Mr Van Hecke concerning the videoconference sessions, the presence of the accused at the hearing and the access of the lawyers to the files. The current corona crisis also forces the judicial world to take measures to prevent the further spread of the COVID-19 virus. Both courts, prisons and legal professions need to adapt in certain areas. On temporary crisis measures relating to the physical appearance of detainees, I can inform you that in Royal Decree No. 3 in respect of criminal matters of 9 April 2020, no changes have been made with regard to the appearance of suspects or accused persons before the criminal courts on the substance or before the investigating courts. This was not considered appropriate by a working group which I assembled with representatives of the College of Attorneys General, the courts and the courts and the order of lawyers. It is clear that the transfer of detainees to and from the courthouses should nevertheless be avoided as far as possible in order to avoid contagion. A transfer has the effect of bringing prisoners together in a cell car and in the cells in the courthouse. After contact with other people from the outside world, they return to prison and possibly infect other people there. I do not need to tell you that a high level of contamination in prisons would cause major organisational and security problems and would have a major impact on the functioning of external hospitals and their monitoring. Hence, in certain courts, efforts are being made to organise the sessions in the criminal courts on the ground and in the investigating courts in such a way that the sessions take place with representation by the lawyer or with the presence of the lawyer in the courtroom, and the prisoner's participation from prison through audio and video tools. The consent of the parties shall be acted on the page of the hearing. The starting point is the finding that, as a result of the corona measures taken, there is a situation of force majeure which prevents arrests from appearing in court. The principle of non-personal appearance from a specific force majeure situation is accepted. There is a specific case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In that case-law, it is even true that, in certain circumstances, the representation of the suspected person or the accused person detained may be imposed. See the case of 20 October 2005, the Romanov case against Russia. Article 6 of the ECHR requires that all necessary steps are taken to ensure a fair trial. European case law and, more specifically, the right to fair treatment does not oppose the use of videoconferencing and tools with sufficient quality audio and video if three conditions are met. The conditions are the legitimate purpose, the interactive debate and the possibility for the accused to have a confidential conversation. That is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 5 October 2006 in Marcello Viola v Italy, and of the European Court of Human Rights of 27 November 2007 in Zagaria v Italy. As far as the legitimate purpose of the virus is concerned, I believe that reference can be made to the imperative need to reduce the spread of the virus, especially in prisons. Interactivity can be guaranteed by the possibility for the prisoner to intervene actively and lively during the session, albeit remotely in a shielded room in prison. The detained persons can therefore intervene at any time. They can also be questioned and given the last word. Furthermore, it is always necessary to allow the arrested suspect or accused to have confidential consultations with his counsel from prison. This can be guaranteed by suspending the hearing and allowing the lawyer to consult with the client by telephone who has his own telephone line at his disposal. In certain courts and courts, this is the way in which hearings continue. Every court and prison have the necessary equipment for that. Apart from that personal analysis, I would like to stress that it is always the exclusive competence of the President of the Chamber concerned to decide how he organises and arranges his session, including with regard to the personal appearance. I can only say that some courts, including the Mechelen Court, give me positive echoes of the aforementioned procedure. Given the independent decisions of the judiciary, I will not rule on the specific matter of Ghent or on the practices of courts and courts. With regard to the long-term use of video conferencing, including after the Coronavirus crisis, I must reply to you, Mrs Khattabi, that video-conferencing was already possible in civil matters even before the confinement period. The best known example is that of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, which, at the request of the parties, requests video connections with the Hasselt Court. Since the previous legislature, the country has had five facilities where possible. These videoconferences take place at the request of the parties and for their comfort. The Royal Decree of Special Powers established a legal basis for the jurisdiction of the judge to decide whether to hold oral debates in certain cases in order to give an informed decision. As with many of the solutions developed during this crisis, the assessments of the measure in question will have to take place in order to consider whether this solution should be sustained, possibly in a modified form. The same applies to video conferencing. I asked the various actors to think about it and to come back to me, with their findings. Nevertheless, video conferencing clearly seems to be a part of our lives, just as it has finally taken, I would say, its place in justice. I myself spend seven to eight hours a day in front of a screen. I'm not watching TV anymore. By force of things, the expertise gained will be very useful. More generally, Mrs Khattabi, since you referred to my interview in La Libre Belgique and to the reply of some magistrates, I can tell you that all the measures taken in the context of the present crisis – in particular by means of the royal decrees of special powers – are temporary. Consequently, no measure as such will be automatically perpetuated, as all these provisions will lapse on the date provided for and fixed by the Royal Decree of the Special Powers. On the other hand, what I said in this interview is that a child who learned to read at the age of four or five cannot simulate at six years the loss of that skill on the grounds that he became ill. In other words, he took on a habit that could be of some use to him. As far as the lawyer's access to the files is concerned. Where the file is digitized, this can be consulted at the Registry or in prison via ConsultOnline. The prisons and the Registrys are located within the network of Justice. The consultation takes place on a PC of Justice. Making ConsultOnline available on other PCs poses a whole range of security risks. There is consultation with the bar associations to secure remote access for lawyers by linking the lawyers' system with the secure justice system. Technically this is not yet possible, but work is being done on this track. I think I have given an answer that I have already given to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh now to Mr Segers. I hope you will forgive me, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. Then I come to the question of Mrs Depraetere asking for guidelines for bailiffs in corona times. I took note of the guidelines issued by the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs. The starting point is the Ministerial Decision of 18 March 2020 which contains urgent measures to limit the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19. This decision identifies the bailiffs as one of the key sectors and essential services. They have to apply to the extent possible telework and the rules of social distancing, but the principle is that they are essential and crucial and that their tasks therefore need to be carried out further. The directives explicitly state that only those measures of implementation must be implemented with clear urgency and respect for the hygiene directives, the rules on social discrimination and the necessary precautions. This includes the expulsions. The same rule is posted for service, including the service of orders for payment. Whether such measures are clearly urgent is assessed on a case-by-case basis and depending on the circumstances. I would like to point out that these directives are not non-binding, because their violation could lead to disciplinary sanctions. I note that the guidelines are well followed by the bailiffs. This is reflected, among other things, in the statistics on the herds of movable property, the herds of immovable property and the herds of third parties, which have fallen dramatically in recent weeks. The information I obtained from the Ombudsman for the judicial bailiffs sector also indicates that the problems in the field are under control. Since 13 March, the number of complaints has fallen by one third. That's 13 to 21 days in absolute figures. This is probably mainly a matter of complaints about acts prior to the introduction of the directives. There are also virtually no removals. The only known for the time being concern situations of domestic violence. However, I instructed my administration to prepare the texts that would be necessary if the directives were to cease to be followed. As far as friendly recovery is concerned, my colleague from the Economic Affairs department, Muylle, is competent to take any measures. The National Chamber of Court Bailiffs does indeed prohibit the bailiffs from making house visits. For a good understanding, the friendly recovery often involves the possibility of a payment plan. In this respect, the National Chamber expressly asks its members to be flexible in their follow-up and to temporarily reduce the reimbursement modalities. This calls again for a casuistic approach, au cas par cas, as they say so beautifully in French. I come to Mr Van Hecke's question on measures relating to gambling websites. The 38 percent decrease in the average number of visits on gambling websites relates to all types of licence holders. Today it is not possible to split the numbers by type of game of chance. Except for one, all operators with an additional licence A+ and B+ see their visitors drop. For the number of visitors of illegal websites, the Gaming Commission does not have any figures. As regards the checks on the authorised websites, the Gaming Commission analyses the problem issues. Recommendations are addressed to the whole sector and, in the case of criminal offences, minutes are drawn up. These websites will be re-checked. The Gaming Act provides for the possibility of imposing higher sanctions in the event of repeated infringements. As far as the illegal websites are concerned, the Gaming Commission tracks them by means of notifications and complaints. These illegal websites will be added to the blacklist after the preparation of a report via the committee meeting of June. It's a process that takes time and minute search work. The new leadership of the Gaming Commission and I have the ambition to strengthen the controls. It examines how the Control Cell can be strengthened in the future with additional police officers and staff with the authority of judicial police officer. The lockdown edition of the Tour of Flanders is a sports event in which the name was determined by the organizers themselves and not by the gambling sector. There is no specific regulation on advertising that responds to the coronavirus today. Consequently, the Gaming Commission cannot act against this. When drawing up an informative note on pop-ups, I prefer to have as sustainable a policy as possible to protect the players that can continue even after the corona crisis. The Gaming Commission will shortly make recommendations on this matter. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with the answer to Mr Cogolati's question on the protection of the Kurdish community in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u16	Minister, Mr Cogolati has not yet asked his question, because it is not COOVID-related.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u17	Minister, thank you for these complete answers. It is a pleasure to receive real answers to the questions that we are asking ourselves and the actors on the ground are also asking themselves. A dark spot persists for me. Why is COL 18/2012 still not applicable, when it is known that these measures are necessary in normal time and all the more so today? I urge you to make every effort to ensure that it comes into force as soon as possible. Nor did I receive any information on the number of prohibitions ordered or on the way in which control was carried out. It is an element on which we must continue to move. Finally, I welcome the information on the ICD. It is reassuring to know that you have already begun to prepare the elements you intend to raise. I would like to point out that there is a strong expectation that the federal government will take a leadership role in the delegation to combat domestic violence and, more broadly, violence against women. I hope that you will succeed in assuming this leadership role with an ambitious plan and means to the key.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I am certainly pleased that, in certain circumstances, professional secrecy can be lifted as regards the sharing of information. I have also heard that we can look forward to 8 May for the final version of the measures. I will. You will certainly urge the good practices to further cooperate with each other, so that no information is lost between the various services, for example in the case of intra-family violence or partner violence. You gave a full answer to my first question. We look forward to the measures that are still being taken at the next moments of consultation. My second question was about the riots in Brussels. My colleague has already explained the whole police thing in the Chamber. You responded well to my questions about the arrests, with 47 arrests a large number. 172 minutes were also drawn up. Although a report of unknowns was drawn up for the purpose of creating the rebellion, it did not specify who was responsible. As far as the weapon is concerned, it also turns out to be an unknown. We want to follow up on such matters further, so that things in Brussels do not escalate further, including the Ramadan that is coming. I'm holding my heart. I hope that this can be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u19	Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answers you provided. While there are some consolidations in the fight against violence against women, it is also surprising that this inter-ministerial conference only meets on 8 May, knowing all possible measures that could or should still have been taken with regard to violence against women. We didn't really get any clarification about what Minister De Crem blew us this morning in relation to a joint initiative you would take. I didn't understand exactly what it was going to be about. I understand that it was rather, as was the case with Minister De Crem, in liaison with the police services and the police areas, to step up their duties and obligations in relation to the filing of complaints and/or possibly the contact of a number of victims during, for example, a period of three months, as is the case in the Brussels area. On this point, I must admit that I do not see very clearly what initiative you want to take, even though on Thursday Minister De Crem suggested that this was rather an initiative for the police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u20	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers, as usual. I would first like to comment on your answers to the situation in prisons. In fact, you told us what you told us two weeks ago, that all the prisons had masks in place. The problem is that the Collectif de Lutte Anti-Carcerale has just sent you and the Prime Minister a letter, which has been co-signed by many prisoners and close to prisoners, which explains that, contrary to what you say, some prisons have not been able to provide prison officers with sufficient masks. Jamioulx prison, Leuze-en-Hainaut prison, Mons prison, Tournai prison. I therefore believe that this requires clarification from you. As far as domestic violence is concerned, I agree with the remarks made by my colleagues. I am pleased to hear you confirm the development of a new circular. It was time for the federal government to follow the lead of federated entities in terms of proactivity with regard to domestic violence. We will be attentive to the content of this circular, but also and above all as regards its correct application, since, as Mrs Schlitz rightly explained, what is generally problematic is not the content as such of a circular, but its correct application on the ground. With regard to your responses to electronic bracelets, you refer a lot to federated entities for the implementation of electronic monitoring. In fact, I think it's the least of all things to consult with these same federated entities from the moment that your decision was to make wider use of these electronic bracelets, since this decision, or at least this wider use of electronic bracelets, will significantly increase the workload of the Houses of Justice. In fact, it is an obligation that is incumbent upon you and which stems from the cooperation agreement of 17 December 2013 which states that the Interdepartmental Conference of the Houses of Justice must be convened for any measure of the federal government that might have an impact on the missions of the Houses of Justice. With regard to masks, I am relieved to hear that a strategy is finally in place at the federal level. If I understand correctly, it will be twofold, namely the launch of a national mask production line and, on the other hand, a consultation with cities and municipalities. I hear what you're asking us to do, be patient. I respect her, but I would like to point out to you that this is beginning to be urgent. We are talking about a breakdown that would take place as of May 4, 2020. But it seems to me that you will not be able to ensure this deconfinity until we are, at the same time, in a position to ensure the right protection of citizens by wearing the mask. The population must be able to protect itself in the presence of this virus, which will continue to be present at that time. I would therefore like to say that there is an urgent need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u21	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your response to the question of wearing the fabric mask. Above all, let us not hesitate to encourage local productions because this is not short-term. We will need it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and it is essential not to depend on distant countries and be able to rely on our economy. You are announcing a framework that could, at some point, be decided by the government and you are asking us to be patient. The concern is that this debate does not date from today. It's been weeks since it's been clear from a health perspective that the widespread wearing of the mask is going to be necessary. It should already prevail today in the places frequented (transports, shops) and possibly on the street if there are many people. The availability of the mask is essential. In my opinion, the blurry that lies today and a form of attentism are not synonymous with health efficiency. An incredible volunteer has begun to produce these masks and we must salute him. But that will not be enough. Some municipalities have made arrangements; others, not at all. We are therefore at risk of finding ourselves, at some point, with a lack of availability for citizens, especially in certain communes. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to insist that you clarify things quickly. Either you tell the municipalities that the federal government is not taking care of it. In this case, all municipalities must move forward. Either, the federal assumes and the fact, in which case the communes will then be able to be the actors of distribution and the relay in relation to the federal. But above all, let's clarify things to maximize the tools necessary to break the progress of VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u22	Minister, even if, as you have always done, you have expressed yourself by putting the forms in it, your response to a centralized production of fabric masks cannot satisfy me. Three weeks ago the Prime Minister announced that you had been given a new mission and that you had been given the task of taking initiatives by involving the textile sector, as soon as possible, to launch a production line in Belgium. As a result, you have met with the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the various regions of the country with which you have made commitments. You have even gone far enough since they understood that the federal state would ensure this production. But since then, you have turned back, when this commitment seemed logical given the potential for economies of scale, the negotiating capacities that exist with the textile industry, including Belgium. This reverse, which I hope is provisional, is incomprehensible and causes a lot of excitement on the ground. You say that you will eventually be able to provide fabric and that the communes will have to manage to find seamstresses or seamstresses. This is not serious. It appears like DIY. This is not up to the expectations of the municipalities who complain about this way of doing things. This task is not theirs. This is also not a serious approach to citizens who want to be able to choose to wear a mask, whether or not wearing a mask is mandatory under certain conditions. Your first intuition was interesting. You have intentions that we are valid for. I therefore hope that you will announce very quickly that you have found the means to have produced, through a contract signed by the Federal State, masks that will be distributed to all Belgians, via the post office or pharmacies, no matter what. In any event, these masks are necessary and we are waiting for the federal state to assume its responsibilities in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as domestic violence is concerned, I had asked for figures that you did not give, I believe. In doing so, could you communicate them to me, even in writing? This is not the first time I have asked for figures on violence against women. It must be noted that these figures are very difficult to obtain. That is why I wonder whether there are already statistics on this subject and whether measures have already been taken to quantify this social scourge and thus be able to answer it as effectively as possible. The answer to the second question was very comprehensive, but not for the first point. The subject was: how can we organize solidarity between prison staff and citizens? This question comes from several testimonies of prison staff who feel a little abandoned, while solidarity exists today with our heroes at work. We talk about hospital staff, supermarket staff, etc., and we talk very little about prison staff, who are also on the front lines. Its members are doing an essential job in the current situation. As a result, a sense of abandonment is somewhat generated. On the other hand, the population feels a sense of solidarity, wants to express it to prison staff and does not find the means to do so. I know that you are not going to find this solution directly, but perhaps there is a way to organize the necessary conditions at the level of the prison authorities so that the citizens can show their solidarity. I have tried to carry out an action of solidarity by bringing coques or chocolates. But I learned that everything that entered the prison had to be quarantined. In the case of quirks, it's not very practical! My question is to answer this lack of connection between agents and citizens. Today, it is necessary to express our solidarity to all workers who put their lives at risk in order to ensure the functioning of our society. It was in this sense that I asked my question. I hope we find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for responding in part to the questions. I obviously feel like I come back to the same remarks every time. It is clear, in any case, that in the coming weeks we will really see the impact of the increase in domestic violence on the public prosecutor's offices. Indeed, it is very difficult to quantify things at the moment, despite the increase in telephone complaints. It is certain that the measures provided for must be effective, and adequate and sufficient means must be available to combat such violence. On the other hand, I have not heard any reply from you regarding the possibility of using pharmacies as a relay in this fight against domestic violence. This was the subject of my proposal: pharmacies would act as relays and would themselves call the police in case a client or patient reports a problem of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u25	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank your teams for the effectiveness of organizing responses by theme. Similarly, I would like to welcome your foreword and share your call for caution. You, as a member of the government, as we, as parliamentarians, have no interest in fuelling and cultivating chaos through risky communications. A clear and accepted decision – even if it is not unanimous – seems more reassuring to me than a vagueness inviting one to wonder if there is a pilot on the plane. I would like to stress the clarity of your remarks on the royal decrees. As you said, they were taken on the occasion of this crisis – and that's all. They will be evaluated and, if necessary, a democratic debate will be opened on the follow-up to be given, in accordance with the habits of this forum. I would also like to thank you for the very precise photograph of the figures you have given me. I'll look at what he's in jail for. Without wanting to add a layer on the issue of masks, I hear your willingness to move forward on this issue, but it remains vague. The announcement has, it is true, raised expectations. If the difficulty of organizing this management were to be confirmed, I would then invite the government to show itself to be consistent by allowing – and I am relaying a request from these thousands of small hands in solidarity – the reopening of the mercery and fabric stores – as was decided for the Bricos – in order to remedy the shortcomings we are currently experiencing in this area. To follow up on the work in other committees, I would like to stress the quality of our discussions in this committee. As I said, we may not share some of your choices, but in any case you never hesitate to provide us with complete answers. In these times of artistic blurry in certain areas, it is rather reassuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u26	Minister, thank you and your colleagues for the sequenced, thematized and precise answers. It is quite pleasant to be able to work under these conditions. I wrote down your answers to both of my questions. As an anecdote, and therefore without wishing to get a generality from it, an example of phishing was reported to me by a friend. He had downloaded the Payconiq app to Apple Store, just yesterday. As a result, he received a link, to which he clicked and which led him to a site called "payconiq.com" and not "payconiq.be". We know that these electronic transactions are increasing today and that there are a whole series of elements. I also hear that you do not have the statistics and that is normal since the period is far too short. When they come out, could you pass them on to Parliament? It might be interesting to examine them. With regard to the preventive aspect through the Computer Crime Unit – the national cybersecurity centre – I find that it should focus on certain aspects. In fact, another phenomenon that is developing with containment is that a whole part of the population that was in digital break-up must now necessarily use some of these devices to keep contacts, etc. This population is less educated on the digital issue, including digital security. I think it would be important to have more simplified specific information for this public. As far as the interpreters are concerned and according to your answer, things are gradually taking place. It's hard, but it's good news. I would like to respond to two other points. First of all, with regard to the masks and their supply, I hear your concern. Since the information circulated at the end of this weekend and at the beginning of this week, the municipalities have had to try to insure themselves because they are assailed by requests for fabric masks. According to rumours, the strategy of debunking would impose these masks. Who will produce them if it is not the federal government or the federated entities? The first line becomes the local entities. Many of them, with little means, have tried to ensure that they already have stocks of fabric, elastics, wire, coal filters. They manage, each in its own way according to the contacts established. Federal coordination would be very welcome and would help to prevent everyone from being subjected to the law of the market. Indeed, textile factories and some textile suppliers take advantage of competition between municipalities and the scarcity of stocks to increase prices exponentially. In my view, there is a particular interest in federal coordination being taken over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u27	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. In a short time, much has been made possible in terms of digitisation, automation and ensuring that justice is actually a strong public service that is ready for the 21st century. We naturally welcome much of this evolution. They prove it's possible. We would therefore ask you to maintain and continue this dynamic, of course with due regard for fundamental rights. I would also ask you to evaluate how this dynamic can now happen and how further steps can be taken and at least to valorise the momentum, but also to continue thereafter, including and certainly in the area of access to files. I specifically asked you about the infections to what extent the prisoners who had been in contact with another infected inmate are being followed. From your reply, I understand that the cell mates of infected prisoners are placed in medical isolation and the others are not, but that they are working compartmentalised. That is why I would like to remind you of what was in the press yesterday, which you are undoubtedly aware of. A significant proportion of the infections appear to occur even before the symptoms manifest. That is why it might be advisable to consider who else has had a strong contact with prisoners who are ultimately infected, in order to prevent them from wearing, for example, a mouth mask? With regard to the execution of sentences and the early release of prisoners, I am very pleased to hear that no records of abuses have yet been reported. I would ask you to be particularly vigilant about this. Finally, allow me to wish you, your cabinet and everyone in the Justice Department very much success in the fight against COOVID-19, but also in the search for additional solutions, always respecting fundamental rights. It must be solutions that justice and citizens in this country can serve during but also long after the COOVID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u28	Minister, thank you very much for your explanation. However, I have not heard any answer to the problems raised at Marneffe prison. With regard to testing capacity, I can only support the approach that you would take to ensure that, after nursing homes and hospital staff, prison officers and inmates are part of a priority group. I also take advantage of my reply to encourage you. I know you're putting a lot of energy into developing this fabric mask production. I don't think the state has to provide everything. It is to be welcomed that initiatives for individual production and solidarity have begun. I have every confidence in the fact that you're going to add another amount of masks thanks to this production that you're going to be able to accompany.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u29	Does any of the Members, whether or not they are taking part in the debate, still ask to speak? [[No.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can conclude this actua debate for this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u30	Thank you for this brief trial. I would point out that monitoring the activities of foreign intelligence services in Belgium is an integral part of the legal competence of the State Security. When a threat emanating from the activities of these services is detected, the State Security shall refer it to the competent authorities. If necessary, a thorough investigation is carried out and appropriate measures, including awareness-raising, prevention and even obstruction, are taken to extinguish the detected threat and protect its targets. In the case of a known and possible threat to certain individuals, the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body (TRAB) is informed by one of the support services, resulting in a threat analysis. On this basis, the Crisis Centre shall, where appropriate, take action. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the task of close protection has been transferred to the federal police for several years. Unfortunately, in an answer to a parliamentary question, it is not possible to provide more information for obvious reasons related to the specific nature of the work of the intelligence and security services. As for judicial proceedings, it takes place in the event of an indication that criminal information is being or is about to be committed. Its purpose is to prosecute the perpetrators of the offences. It is difficult for me to answer such a broad question as how the Belgian judicial authorities cooperate with their counterparts in other European countries. There are a large number of legal and practical instruments, such as the European arrest warrant, the European investigation decision, the Eurojust joint investigation teams, etc. I am, of course, quite prepared, Mr Cogolati, to respond more broadly to a written question that you would ask in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic156x.u31	This was a very abstract response from the Minister, while the threats made by Turkish intelligence agents against our Belgian nationals in our territory and from the Kurdish minority are very real. In the past, the minister, for example in the context of a question on Rwanda, had been able to give us more details. I believe that all transparency must be made about the measures taken and the exact nature of the activities of foreign intelligence services in our territory, in order to ensure the physical integrity and respect for the human rights of our nationals and of all refugees living in Belgium.
