ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for being here. So we start with the KB No. 12. Those who have read the Royal Decree will have seen many similarities with the same rules that we have applied to Justice. No specific questions have been submitted about the Royal Decree. Are there any colleagues who have any questions about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u2	Mr Minister, my first question concerns the lateness of this Royal Decree. You did not come forward until the end of this month, on 21 April, when the Council of State itself, in its opinion on the second Royal Decree, which originally contained an arrangement, had already demonstrated the need for a separate arrangement. The Council of State itself drew up a draft itself at that time. So you had already received it on a tray, which is why I ask why we are working again and asking the Council of State for its opinion, so that it does not enter into force until 9 April? The period normally runs until 3 May or three and a half weeks. So I wonder how many cases will be able to make use of that scheme. Secondly, I wonder whether the concept of force majeure is very clearly defined. In proceedings of the Council of State, force majeure is an important principle, because force majeure can suspend deadlines, which are extended with your KB today. I believe that the risk of discussion regarding the interpretation of the concept of force majeure is very real. Will corona measures in all circumstances be regarded as a form of force majeure? It would be helpful if you could clarify this. Thirdly, in addition to the Council of State and the Council of Foreign Ministers, which are now each subject to separate regulations, there are also some other federal administrative courts. These procedures are also often subject to mandatory deadlines. My question is whether the other federal administrative courts can expect measures or QBs? With regard to this specific RB, I see in Article 1, paragraph 1, I quote: 'without prejudice to the arrangements made or to be made by the competent authorities'. This was not in the original draft designed by the Council of State itself. If I can believe what I have read, this has been added at the request of the Walloon and French-speaking governments. However, I wonder whether the sub-governments are competent to make arrangements themselves for the deadlines under a procedure for the Council of State. This seems to me to be contrary to Article 160 of the Constitution. In my view, other governments cannot make any different arrangements at all. So I wonder why that phrase was specifically added to the original draft of the Council of State. Article 2 of your Royal Decree on the urgency of the matter states that, in actions for suspension on grounds of extreme urgency, the procedure will proceed in writing. But the report to the King shows that the magistrate may request oral explanations from the parties, possibly at the magistrate's house if circumstances so require, for example via a videoconference. The President already drew the parallel with the measures for the Justice Department. I hope that I do not have to draw the parallel with the provision of informatics to the Justice Department. Is there sufficient computer support for the magistrates to put this into practice? One final specific question on Article 4. That Article provides for the possibility to submit procedural documents and additional documents, not only at the special e-mail address provided for in the context of corona, but also at any other e-mail address communicated by the competent chamber. In other words, also the personal e-mail address of the magistrate. My specific question here is whether this is in line with the GDPR regime. Are there sufficient guarantees of data protection here? So far, Mr President, my specific questions about this KB to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u3	Minister, this regulation has aspects of pre-sightedness, since the initial intention was to deal in the same regulation with measures that would apply to both civil and administrative courts. Finally, it is in response to a comment by the Council of State that we need to discuss an order that deals only with the proceedings before this body. Since these regulations have been drawn up by the Council of State, we could say that we are never better served than ourselves. For my part, I will not have any particular comment to make on the framework within which this text falls. I would simply like to ask you a few questions about the operative part of section 2 of the Order. It excludes from the general rule the treatment of extreme urgency proceedings by stating that appeals for suspension of extreme urgency will be dealt with in writing on the basis of a timetable imposed by the competent board, with a written opinion filed by the auditor. Therefore, Minister, can you tell us whether the parties to the proceedings will be able to make comments as soon as they have heard the auditor's opinion, as is naturally the case in the public hearings? This is not only a matter of extreme urgency, since it applies to proceedings brought before the Council of State in general. Finally, one particular feature of this regulation relates to the application of the written procedure. Indeed, it is envisaged that, for all those not subject to extreme urgency, the written procedure will only be applied if the parties agree. This is exactly the opposite of what has been planned before the civil courts, since there is provision for the written procedure to apply, unless all parties object. Minister, why is there a system differentiation between these two approaches? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u4	Mr President, because both the court and the administrative court need more time in the context of the crisis, my group agrees with the proposed text. We also supported it in the Saturday meeting that took place on this subject. We do have a comment on the date of entry into force. That date was moved in a previous version of the Royal Decree of 17 April from 18 March to 9 April. I've looked into the explanatory notes at the Royal Decree, but there's no explanation. Because March 18th was the entrance to the lockdown light, we thought it would be a logical date to link the KB back to that as well. Minister, what is the reasoning behind the later date of entry into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u5	The advice of the Council of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u6	Minister, when I read Royal Order No. 12 on extending the time limits for proceedings before the Council of State, I would like to raise an important issue. What about the extension of time limits and the use of the written procedure for all administrative courts other than the Council of State? I am thinking in particular of the competent courts for asylum applications. On 14 April, I expressed my relief during the discussion of Special Power Order No. 2, noting that you did not pursue your idea of excluding a whole category of citizens, namely asylum-seekers, from the extension of time limits. Indeed, we were opposed to this idea. The Council of State also made it clear that this measure was discriminatory. For us, this was a clear attempt to use the health crisis to unblock the law of foreigners. We want to bear full witness to the importance for my group to remain vigilant in this regard. Today, I note that nothing has yet been planned for these bodies. Should we be concerned about this question? How long can we expect a decree of special powers to deal with all administrative bodies and to grant treatment similar to that provided for in the judicial order? My intervention was short, my goal being to express concern and get answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the existing exceptions provided for in the very first structure, in particular the federal administrative courts and the Council for Foreign Affairs. Several colleagues have already raised the question. Since it is divided, the royal decrees are also intended to come separately. What timing is foreseen for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u8	Any questions? [[No.]] Then I'd be happy to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to present the Royal Decree No. 12 of 21 April 2020, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 22 April 2020. The decision governs the extension of justice before the Council of State and the written examination of cases. The Council of State's Opinion 67.182/12 of 4 April 2020 led to a division of the section relating to the Council of State. The initial draft power decision concerned both the courts and courts as well as the Council of State and the federal administrative courts. Royal Decree No. 2 now regulates the time limits and the administration of justice for the courts and courts, while Royal Decree No. 12 lays down the time limits for the Council of State. For the Council of Foreigners' Contests, a special power decision is also made by colleague De Block. The Legislative Section has therefore recommended that a separate special power decision be taken to extend the time limits for the administration of justice for the Council of State, the Administrative Department, and for the written examination of cases for the same section. To this end, the Council of State has included in its opinion a draft such a special power decision, which responds to the needs of the Council of State, Department of Administrative Law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this project has been taken over in its entirety, on the understanding that the period referred to in Article 1 will begin on 9 April 2020 and end on 3 May 2020 instead of 19 April 2020. This makes it possible to follow what has been applied for Justice and what is also proposed for the Foreign Litigation Council. The completion date of the project is also in line with the initial extension decision taken within the expanded National Security Council. The procedural foreclosure periods (introduction and processing of proceedings) and the time limits with similar penalties (disclosure of proceedings) which expire during the period shall be extended by 30 days before the end of the period. This rule does not apply to requests for extreme urgency suspensions and requests for extreme urgency interim measures. However, the latter could be dealt with during the period and up to 30 days after the end of the period and their judgement could be known without a public hearing and by written procedure. Other files may be dealt with without a public hearing at the request of the parties or with their agreement and after a written opinion of the hearing officer up to 60 days after the period. During that period, the procedural documents and other documents in the cases mentioned may be emailed by the parties during the period and notifications and communications may be made by the Council of State by e-mail, except for individuals who cannot use that procedure. They shall then opt for registered consignments. So much for my introductory remarks. I would now like to address a number of specific questions that have been asked. Ms Pas, the KB on the Council of State was linked to the KB on the foreign contentieux of Minister De Block at an initial examination in the Group of Ten. So we waited a dozen days for the final text on the KB on foreign affairs to be completed. The two texts were then dealt with together, because in both cases I repeat the question of the administrative legal basis. With regard to your question concerning, among other things, force majeure or force majeure and electronic handling, Mrs Pas, I can tell you the following. The main and standard objective is not only to clearly respond to a more difficult organisation for administrative courts in times of corona crisis, but also to ensure that everyone can compete with equal weapons and be given the opportunity to seek advice or to collect evidence in order to carry out the procedure properly and properly at a time when it is not obvious, for example, to request or obtain documents from administrations. The regulation on essential movements actually restricts the freedom to deal with such matters. We also want to limit social interaction during litigation because of the risk of virus transmission. The planned expiry date of 3 May 2020 may be extended by the King by decision adopted after consultation of the Council of Ministers. The decline until 9 April is similar to that in the Royal Decree on Foreign Affairs, with which I also answer Mr Donné's question. The extension of the time limit therefore applies both to the time limits within which the parties must bring their action and to the time within which the parties must lodge their pleadings, to ask for the continuation of proceedings or to submit other proceedings, such as the lodging of an application for intervention. Let me give you an example. Suppose the deadline for bringing an action for destruction before the Council of State expires on 13 April 2020. In that case, that period shall be extended to 30 days after the end of the crisis period, which is currently fixed on Sunday 3 May. In accordance with the calculation rules laid down in Article 88 of the procedural decision on the Council of State, the time limit from Monday 4 May shall be extended to Tuesday 2 June. All other claims and appeals may be dealt with by the Council of State without a public hearing during and up to 60 days after the crisis period, in particular under two conditions: on request or after agreement of all parties concerned, and subject to written opinion of the auditor. According to the Council of State, the legislation itself is respected. Mr Pivin, to answer your question on the differentiation of the scheme, I should like to inform you that the latter has been requested by the Council of State in the context of its draft royal decree. Mr. Boukili, the deadline for feedback is until April 9, for the Council of State. As far as foreign litigation is concerned, I referred to the work carried out by Mrs De Block. The court litigation which is normal was included in the royal decree drawn up by my colleague, Mr Geens. I think I have answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u10	Minister, I asked you about the distinction between the procedure before the Council of State and the procedure before the civil courts concerning the use of the written procedure. To that, you replied that the Council of State had requested it. I wanted to know why. Do you have an additional word of explanation to give me? If this is not the case, could you pass the question on to the services to get the answer? A second question that I asked and to which I did not hear an answer is whether the parties will always be able to make comments or ask for clarification once the auditor has expressed his or her opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u11	Mr Pivin, your first question is technical. This is a suggestion that was made by the Council of State itself. If it suits you, I will provide you with a written answer as soon as possible to clarify the nature of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u12	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u13	As for your second question, the auditor next to the Council of State will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u15	Mr Pivin, your second question is already an answer to your first question. It is an application because the procedure before the Council of State is a specific oral procedure as in the ordinary courts. This procedure is specific and drafted by royal decree. There's always the auditor's opinion. Then comes the parties' reply in the proceedings, which is not always provided for in civil proceedings but in criminal proceedings. There is also a distinction between criminal and civil proceedings, but in civil proceedings, there is only the opinion of the prosecutor, in the family duty among others. It is therefore a regularity within the Council of State. I think that is why there is a distinction. Like you, I am in favour of increasing the number of written procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these two orders of special powers are particularly important for businesses and for individuals facing short-term income difficulties. They provide for the possibility of deferrals of payments in respect of tax debts (VAT, business discount and ISOC) or, for individuals, of debts to banks such as mortgages. These are therefore two decrees of special powers which, in principle, are supported by environmentalists, since they are vital for the persons and companies concerned. However, it is not a question of giving a blank cheque. Minister, I have a few questions about how these special power orders work in practice. We believe that companies that do not play the game properly in terms of their financial management should not have access to this type of aid. I am thinking of companies that continue to pay dividends, buy equity shares, and reduce their own funds. These conditions are not provided for at this stage in the decrees. I am also thinking of the question of tax havens, on which you have pledged to return as early as Wednesday. Minister, why are these elements not included in these orders? The second element is the question of the possible postponement of mortgage repayments. We know that an agreement was reached with Febelfin. It is not fully reflected in these decrees of special powers, in the sense that there are rules which are applied by Febelfin and which are not provided for here. However, these rules must be applied correctly. Minister, do you have any feedback from Febelfin, or even individuals, on how this possibility of mortgage credit deferral works? Do banks play the game well? Are you aware of any problems that should be resolved either through a new agreement with the banking sector or through a rapid amendment of this special powers order? Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you about how these deferrals work. Indeed, we have estimates from the Finance Inspectorate regarding the postponement of VAT payments and professional prepayments, but not from ISOC. Do you have estimates in terms of cash flow effects today, since payments are normally to be made in the course of the fiscal year? In addition, has the banking sector provided you with information on the number of mortgage loans that have already been carried over and the financial volume that this represents?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u17	Mr President, I assume that we have the KB's numbers. 11 and 7 can be treated together. I do not have any comments on the CAB No. 11 and I would therefore like to ask a few specific questions about the Royal Decree No. 7. Mr Minister, I think there is a mistake in Article 1. These are legal persons and companies with a closing date which does not coincide with the end of the calendar year. The intention is to postpone the filing of personal and corporate tax returns normally due from 16 March to 30 April 2020. There is now a delay until 30 April, and I think that is a mistake. That measure does not make any sense if a person who had to lodge a declaration by 30 April is delayed until the same date. As far as Article 2 is concerned, the Royal Decree No. 4 for the conduct of general meetings of legal persons during the corona period two options. On the one hand, the General Assembly may proceed with modifications such as powers of attorney and written procedures, on the other hand, it may be postponed. If one chooses to postpone, the mandatory deadlines will be extended by 10 weeks. Article 310 of the Income Tax Code states that the taxable person must be granted at least one month after the approval of the annual accounts for the submission of that tax return. Article 2 states that that month would not apply. However, how can a declaration be made if there is no approved annual accounts? Between the approval and the submission of the declaration, a certain period of time should always be allowed, but this Article states that that month will be deleted. Is there gonna be anything in place? I read in the report to the King that the deadline of one month after the general meeting will not be allowed to increase the administrative procedure. However, this creates legal uncertainty. When do these legal persons have to submit their declarations? This is not mentioned on the declaration form, because it is no longer sent, everything has to be submitted electronically. Moreover, this provision makes it impossible in practice for a large number of companies to postpone the general meeting. Company law can do that, but because of the obligation to file, it is not really possible. I do not think that regulation is entirely coherent. I have another question about Article 11. The declaration for March 2020 should normally be submitted by 20 April 2020. Article 11 provides for a delay until 24 April. What's the point of a four-day delay? Maybe that's a mistake. Finally, I would like to make a small comment on Article 15 of the Royal Decree. The exemption from the fee for the conversion of a mortgage mandate is provided for. I understand the measure, the costs of converting that mortgage mandate into a mortgage are charged to the debtors. So that arrangement really is a concession to the families. However, I have next thought. The power of attorney explicitly provides that no taxes can be reduced or waived through the powers of attorney-KBs. However, there may be a delay in payment. I also know that a fee is not legally-technically the same as a tax, but it seems to me to be at least contrary to the spirit of the power of attorney law. I know that a fee is not a tax legally, but economically the difference is flimsy. Mr President, I hope to have a concrete answer to my specific questions on these four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u18	Mr President, with regard to the two royal decrees, I have two technical remarks, Mr Minister. With regard to mortgage loans, the text of the decree does not take into account the differentiation of borrowers' income. In Febelfin's modus vivendi, however, it is planned to make a differentiation from income. I was wondering why it wasn't included in the royal decree. Will income differentiation apply or not? This may be important for some applicants. The other question is closer to Mr Gilkinet's. Febelfin admitted in early April that there were a lot of delays in the processing of applications. Do you have an update on the delays in responding to applicants? As far as the other royal decree is concerned, of course, it is a very good measure for the cash flow of enterprises but a less good measure for the finances of the State. Do you have an estimate of the revenue slip? What is this now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u19	Mr Minister, first of all I want to apologize for the absence of Mr Laaouej, who is being held by a meeting on security. As you know, Minister, we support these orders, although difficulties still remain. The first point is that banks always have the right to refuse. The banks are therefore left with a broad appreciation, which could lead to certain decisions that would not be uniform. Moreover, the request remains the responsibility of the borrower, who must himself take the steps to his bank to submit a file. Was it not possible to provide for more formal, broader communication with regard to individuals and to be more proactive at the level of banks? Secondly, two references have already been made to this charter available on the Febelfin website. Would it not have been preferable to include the elements of this charter in the Order since, on reading this excerpt from the Charter, a number of questions arise, including the evidence of loss of revenue? How will it be possible to demonstrate this loss of income? Will there be specific documents? One last regret is that consumer credits have not been integrated. But, in the meantime, things have been somewhat corrected because a bill, along the same lines, provides for certain elements relating to consumer credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I have a number of questions about the royal decrees. 11 and 7. What Royal Decree No. 11 on mortgage loans, it talks about the borrower, but that can of course be more than one person. Is that taken into account? What if not one but several people who have entered into loans? I also heard Mr Flahaut talking about it earlier, how will it be clarified what the economic loss is as a result of corona? How should this be demonstrated? That's what Article 1 says. As regards Article 2, the Royal Decree is valid until 1 November 2020. According to the virologists, this crisis can last for a long time. Is this taken into account? If one says that the Royal Decree is in force until 1 November 2020, does one think that the economic revival will be a fact by then or will these measures be extended? I would like to make a general comment on this royal decision. The draft decision dates from 3 April and the publication of the Royal Decree took place on 24 April, following the opinion of the Council of State. That took quite a while. Can this be done a little faster and more efficiently, so that our companies have a form of legal certainty faster? My final comment on Royal Decree No. 11 is just about legal certainty. That is one of the biggest comments of the Council of State. The Council of State has doubts about the legal certainty of this decision. The decision contains autonomous amending provisions, which thus amend the law, but also temporary provisions. This may be a problem because the decision will cease to apply from 1 November 2020 but the autonomous amendments will continue to exist. Isn't this gonna get our companies in trouble? At the same time, the seeker will have to examine the law, the power of attorney and the status of the decision. That's not conducive. What the Royal Decree No. 7 As regards the additional tax measures, the extension of payment deadlines, the deadlines for declaration and the accelerated refund of VAT, this will, of course, benefit our companies in this very difficult situation. The VAT payer must submit the accelerated VAT refund in time for the month of February and also explicitly request the refund. This is a rather heavy burden on the services. Will they be able to make the restitutions in good time? If not, are there any negligence interests envisaged for the companies that would receive their refund too late? Still in connection with the accelerated return, the declaration had to be in by 24 April 2020. There's no target date for repayment here. Will that be 31 May 2020, by analogy with the month before? Will there also be a KB for the month of April? Here too there will be no normal economic situation, as we know. I would like to make a final comment on the functioning of the COOVID Committee itself. It is good that Parliament has access to these powers of attorney, but they still have to be ratified within the year. If some kind of decision were not to be ratified, we would risk losing legal certainty for our companies as well. How will this be handled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u21	The latter will, of course, depend on Parliament and not on the government. We do not ratify or ratify. If we don't ratify, the power of attorney law says that the law is supposed to never have existed. That is the responsibility of each individual Member who would refuse to ratify these royal decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u22	Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the question of KB No. Seven two technical questions. Firstly, on Article 2. It refers to the postponement of corporation tax, but nothing is said about the tax on legal persons. Does this also apply to the tax on legal persons? We're assuming so, but I'm asking the question to be sure. A second technical question concerns Articles 10 and 9 § 3. Article 10 provides for the accelerated refund of VAT, but at the explicit request of the taxable person. That request shall be submitted before 3 April 2020. Article 9 (3) sets out the timing of 6 April. Those who cannot rely on accelerated restitution may apply for an extension of the deadline under this Article, but must do so by 6 April. Wasn't it meant to coincide both dates on April 3rd? Now there's three days of difference. Is there a reason for that? So far the questions at KB No. 7. At KB No. 11 I have a number of substantive questions about the bank charter. That charter contains criteria to what extent a private individual can rely on deferment of payment for capital and interest. The charter limits the amount of 25 000 euros in savings and a monthly income of up to 1,700 euros will be charged to review the monthly repayments if necessary. It is a charter and not legislation, but how will it deal with peripherals just outside these borders? If someone earns just over EUR 1,700, will it still be examined whether a possible revision of the monthly repayment can be met? How will the banking institutions deal with this? How will we, as a government, check that the credit institutions apply this space that we give them in arbitrary matters in an objective and proportionate manner? Businesses and businesses are not limited to 25,000 euros or anything else. I hear in the field that when companies ask for such a credit, limits are applied by credit institutions. What are these limits, then, because they are not in the charter? Would it not be better to clarify this so that companies and companies can be treated in the same way? The last question is about costs. It says in the charter that no charges are charged for individuals and companies. At least that's the point. Is this all about costs, including costs that were contracted out in advance? If, due to the current situation of force majeure, the contractual obligations cannot be met, will those costs be passed on? Let me give you an example of the reservation fee. If a certain timing for borrowing is not met, because the construction of the apartment or hangar is delayed due to the situation of force majeure and the date is not reached, then hundreds of euros are still charged by the credit institutions to the lender. Will those costs be eliminated, too? It would be good to clarify this. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u23	Mr Minister, on behalf of the Labour Party I also have a number of questions about the two royal decisions before us. Firstly, to sum it up, the agreement concluded between you and the banks at the end of March 2020 consists of three elements, namely a State guarantee granted to the banks, if they grant a delay in payment to companies and if they grant a delay in payment for the repayment of the mortgage loan to families. We very much regret that otherwise no other conditions are attached to the granting of the State guarantee. For example, companies that still pay dividends or avoid taxes in full corona crisis and park money in tax havens should certainly not enjoy our support in the form of a state guarantee. The Labour Party has also taken an initiative in this area, by submitting a legislative proposal, to ensure that companies that are embezzling money into tax havens should no longer receive any form of aid and therefore no longer receive any State guarantee in the same way as Poland and Denmark, which have previously taken that decision. We are therefore looking forward to seeing what you will do with this input and this bill. The agreement thus provides at least that a delay in payment can be granted to companies and to people paying off a house, which is a good thing in itself. However, we do have questions about the fact that Article 19 of the Royal Decree of 14 April 2020 refers only to the loss of State guarantee for banks, if they do not grant deferred payment to companies. It is therefore only a matter of loans to companies, while there is no mention of the mortgage repayments of families. That's what the new royal decision is about now. But what strikes us enormously is the provision in Article 1 of that royal decree, as if extra salt is being sprinkled into the wound, that the creditor is free to accept the request or not. That's what makes people fall back, isn't it? After all, a blank cheque of EUR 50 billion is given, the only condition being that payments be deferred for companies. For individuals or families who ask their bank to postpone payment for their mortgage, the bank à la tête du client may decide whether or not to comment on it. That goes too far for us. Mr. Minister, why is Royal Decree No. Did you work with two sizes and two weights? There is no problem between banks and large companies, but with regard to the working people, the provision is optional in nature and comes down to pure randomness. Why should banks, if they wish to benefit from the State guarantee, comply with the obligation to postpone payments to companies, but is there no obligation to postpone payments for people's mortgages? The delay in payment for employees, businesses and SMEs is, in itself, a good measure, the spirit of which we can certainly support. However, I believe that many large companies, banks and multinationals are rubbing their hands. Multinationals and banks with strong reserves and fat bank accounts are laughing in their face, as they again receive state aid for free and for nothing, without any condition attached to it. We are talking about an automatic tax delay of two months, which is actually an interest-free loan, a free State loan for two months, without having to oppose it. In the middle of the corona crisis, money can be parked in the Bahamas or in Panama to avoid taxes. It is also possible to pay dividends or buy shares. None of this is included in the Royal Decrees as a prohibition or condition for recourse to the measure. It is getting a bit corny, but every time measures are taken to give SMEs, employees and self-employed people some breathing space or one last straw, a gift is given to multinationals and banks at the same time. Last time, you stated in committee that you would attach conditions to the measures you would take to postpone advance payments. You would consider including the condition that the companies concerned should not avoid taxes via tax havens. That is a good signal in itself, but I wonder what is so special about the draft law on advance payments that you do impose minimum conditions on, whereas you do not do so here in relation to the aid measures listed in the current Royal Decree. In the previous KB there was the bank guarantee, which we still find a blank cheque, as no conditions were imposed. Here we see a series of aid measures which are not subject to any conditions. We believe it is irresponsible to give gifts in this crisis. It is not the time to pay dividends and enrich shareholders. It's not the time to play at the fair either. I would remind you that in 2019 800 Belgian companies jointly transferred 172 billion euros to tax havens. We have to deal with this very carefully, because if we do something like this, we obviously do not deserve public support. Mr Minister, the Labour Party has tabled a legislative proposal to make any state aid conditional on the conditions I have just listed. My main question is whether you will support that bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u24	Mr Minister, my group supports the principle of aid included in the two CSFs. Those two KBs are fine, regardless of any other conditions imposed on any aid measures, but that is a discussion that we have yet to have. I am not going to repeat the technical comments made by my fellow Members, but I do have one great concern. The sp.a Group has already expressed its concerns on monitoring several times, both in the discussion of the Banking Agreement in the committee and in relation to liquidity support measures and whether or not solvency is later. We need monitoring so that we know what is happening on the ground. My fellow Members have briefly referred to it. A number of items included in the banking agreement as terms and conditions are not included in Royal Decree No. 11 and is therefore not regulated, including with regard to the monthly income condition, in particular a monthly income of 1,700 euros. So we repeat our question: how does this monitoring take place? Do we have any idea what's going on on the premises? What happened at the end of March and early April? We have already discussed this in the Committee on Finance. People failed to respect the desired deadline for the banks, because the banking agreement came later and they simply could not submit their application before the beginning of April. Different banks have applied different criteria. Do we have a view of what happened then? After all, you distributed figures last weekend, but how many people who asked for a mortgage waiver were approved and how many people did not? Do the banks charge file costs, whether or not dependent on the income condition up to 1,700 euros? Do you have eyes on that? Does the application apply to all banks in the same way? According to my information, that is not the case. Do you have any objective figures on this? I have the same general question with regard to the payment of aid for the extension of time-limits or payment periods. We agree with that in principle, but do you already have an estimate of the effect on the treasury revenues of the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u25	Thank you for your questions. It seems to me to be a very good idea to discuss what we are doing in the area of finance and taxation in this committee too. I note, however, that some of the questioners ask exactly the same questions that I answered in the Finance Committee a few weeks ago. I'd be happy to do that again. I assume that you will not ask me these questions again because I would not have answered them clearly at the time, but rather because you want them to be discussed in this committee. There are also new cases, as the scheme entered into force on 1 April. We have figures on the moratorium or the postponement. Those numbers date from last Friday. So we are talking about the period from 1 to 22 April. There has been a delay of payment for both mortgages and companies. As far as mortgages are concerned, 66 000 cases have been postponed for six months. As you know, there was a deadline of April 1st. There are, of course, mortgages that are going off the account just on April 1st. A number of banks then postponed the automatic collection of the account by ten days in order to be so sure that people could still submit their files. I know that some banks have not done so, but at least it is a six-month delay. Those who did not receive a postponement in April may be granted the deferment of payment in May if they meet the conditions. Anyway, the delay is six months. It is therefore not the case that certain people who have their date of payment on 1 April would have lost it. Why were conditions imposed on mortgage loans and why were there no conditions for companies? There were also conditions for companies. In particular, there should be no late payment of credit to banks or to the RSZ in the period of one year before the crisis. One condition was also that it should be about Belgian activities. Why are there more conditions for mortgages? The mortgages have two different models. One has either a delay of payment for six months. Because the loan is longer than six months, there is a chance of a slight increase in humanity. For the group that is below a certain limit of income, one even guarantees that humanity does not change. This means reducing the interest rate on mortgage credit. We only give this very specific measure to low-income people, so people who are at greater risk of getting into trouble during this period. Sixty-six thousand mortgage loans have been postponed. The total amount of credit is EUR 6.9 billion. That's not negative. In the case of companies, 96,000 deferred loans are involved. The total outstanding volume is 13.8 billion. So this is about very large numbers. Some have asked me whether the guarantees have been sufficient for the implementation of this moratorium. The figures show that it works and that it is used by many individuals and businesses. That was, of course, the point. Everything was treated a bit by each other in the presentations. I will go through all the comments. Some have to do with the royal decisions, others with the statistics relating to the agreement we concluded with the banks. Mrs Pas, you asked why there was a postponement from 16 March to 30 April and why we did not go beyond 30 April. It has been decided that 30 April is really the end of all the delays. You then asked a very pertinent question about the general meeting in relation to the approval of the annual accounts. One can also make a declaration if the annual accounts have not yet been approved, but one has to apply specifically. You mentioned a good case. If an application is made, an exception may be granted. You're right, that wasn't clear. After all, the communication of the administration will only take place today. You have asked the question and the answer will be in the Minutes, but there will also be a communication from the administration today. You asked a question about Article 11 and asked why there was a delay from 20 April to 24 April. That seems relatively short indeed, it is an extra buffer of only four days. That extra buffer is so short because the refund has to be made by the end of May. We cannot do it later than the end of May. Should we move it further than 24 April, we cannot reach the date of reimbursement of the end of May. Then you had a question about the exemption of fees for a mortgage mandate. You say that we must pay attention because the powers of attorney do not allow us to change taxation. That is a correct remark, but there are two counter-arguments. Firstly, this is a fee, so it is not pure taxation. Secondly, it is an adaptation of a royal decree, which we do indeed do by means of a power of attorney decision. However, that is acceptable. You will also have seen that the Council of State has not made any comments on this. However, it is a correct point of attention. Mr Piedboeuf, you have had the figures regarding the number of times the payment deferral was used. The moratorium is therefore very useful. You also asked why the discussion on mortgages was not in the Royal Order. In the Royal Decree which lays down the bank guarantee, the latter applies to undertakings. It was technically difficult to link a system of guarantees to companies with a mortgage payment deadline. The best guarantee is that the charter has been published and is being used. 66,000 credits have been moved. In practice, this moratorium is actually being used. As far as carry-overs of payments are concerned, you ask what the budgetary impact is. Since this is a displacement, there is no budgetary effect in itself. We are talking about the movement of a volume of 4.5 billion, which is not nothing. Will this create a cash flow problem for the Belgian State? No, not really because a few weeks ago, we funded ourselves on the markets for a seven-year period with a negative rate of 0.01%. So we are still in a situation where funding is still quite easy for our country. The movement of 4.5 billion makes a huge difference for businesses and for a few individuals. Mr Flahaut, you were asking if the banks can refuse. No. The rules are clear and cannot lead to any discussion. If some consider that they were not entitled to this deferral, they may contact the FSMA contact point. Mrs Depoorter, the end date of Royal Decree No. 11 was established on 1 November 2020. You asked what would happen if it took longer. That's a good point. We will closely monitor the evolution of the situation. The reason why we grant postponement is that people who are put at temporary unemployment lose part of their income. We want to make a contribution there, including for self-employed people who see their activities stop. I hope so, but of course we do not have any certainty that by the beginning of November the vast majority of the people who have been put on temporary unemployment will be back on track. Is there a risk of a flare-up? There's a risk. We are in a situation today with little certainty. Shall we support those who are in need? I think we have proved by this that we are doing so. Will we have to adjust that deadline? It's hard to say. We felt that a period of six months would be clear. Indeed, mortgage loans are not included in the Royal Decree. You ask how one can prove that economic damage has been suffered. There are several ways to do that. It can be proved that temporary unemployment has been claimed or that the right to bridge has been granted. One can also make a statement under oath. I also reported this to Febelfin by letter. It was also a question asked by Mr Gilkinet. In order to obtain it in the short term, an oath may also be made on paper, albeit later supported by documents if they cannot be obtained immediately. Now I come to the questions on Royal Decree No. 7. Will the return be possible on time? Yes, our administration indicates that it will succeed in doing all that. 24 April is indeed the end of May, with which I also answer part of a question from Mrs Pas. We have done so before April as well. Will we continue the accelerated refund of VAT? We have not yet put this into practice. We are looking at whether it is useful to go one step further or not. Mrs Slegers, you asked a question about Article 2 on the tax on legal persons. Indeed, I think that is also mentioned in the text, but if I say that here in committee, then that is additional. You also asked a question about Article 10 on the accelerated refund of VAT. From your question about the difference between 3 April and 6 April, I have not fully understood how you compare that with each other. I would therefore like to put your question to my colleague, who may have more insight into it than I do. In relation to Royal Decree No. 11 asked you what we do with the outskirts. Well, when a line is drawn somewhere, there is always a discussion about who is underneath and who is above. That's hard. We have set the limits relatively high, because EUR 25,000 in a bank account is not nothing. We have also not put the income tax rates very low, and we have also ensured that family allowances are not included. Okay, well, those are the boundaries. There are indeed limits for companies, in relation to the debts vis-à-vis banks and the RSZ. As far as costs are concerned, this concerns file costs. Normally, a redeployment of a credit will entail file costs. That's a sum between 300 and 500 euros. Those file charges will not be charged. Nothing has been decided on other costs. Mr De Vuyst, we have already discussed some of the issues you are asking for together in committee. In any case, the moratorium and the guarantee to banks are two different things. The moratorium applies to companies and individuals, the guarantee applies only to companies. You call it gifts given to companies. It's a delay in payment. Postponing is not a waiver, that's two very different things. It is being postponed because many companies are in liquidity problems today. The main reason for bankruptcy is because the company can no longer get funding, and we want to avoid that at all costs. On the postponement of payment in Royal Decree No. 7 ask you why there is no condition of dividend payment. That's very difficult. This is about a two-month delay. Let's say we grant the two-month delay. The company in question pays two months later and then it turns out that it pays dividends a few months later. How do we deal with that? I agree with you that we need to see how we support companies and ensure that they are not misused. But if payment is delayed in the short term, it is very difficult. That is why we have included the remark on dividends in the draft law that we are discussing tomorrow in the Finance Committee. That's about the advance payments. In addition, we can do that. I have added conditions of no dividend distribution, no purchase of own shares and no capital reduction. Advance payments relate to corporation tax collected next year. There the conditions can be checked perfectly. I added that condition to that. Then there is Mr Bertels' question. He asked whether the moratorium is being used and whether there are any figures. We've got those numbers. He also asked how many applications of the total number of applications were refused. We don't have that part of the information yet, because the National Bank is building up the system to control it. This is particularly true of the state guarantee, where it is very important to know whether it is working or whether it should be adjusted. If, in total, more than 170,000 appropriations were postponed by six months, I think it can be shown that the moratorium is working. Mr President, I would now like to make the transition to Mr Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u26	Mr President, I would like to explain a few words in order to justify my presence here this afternoon. I am here because I am responsible for facilitating the implementation of what my colleague agreed with the banks in the charter. For this, some changes were needed to the Code of Economic Law. They're triplets. In the first instance, Article 145 of the Economic Law Code states that there is only a possibility of temporarily suspending capital, not interest. We have therefore had to amend Article 145 in order to allow it temporarily for interest. Secondly, it concerns the modification of an existing credit agreement. If one amends it, then in normal circumstances a physical contact is required in order to carry out the formalities associated with it. In corona times that is not so obvious, hence we give other evidence, by means of the power of attorney decision, which is a tape or an email from a customer with a confirmation, sufficient probative force. Thirdly, the postponement of payment in this particular situation does not give rise to a registration in the list of late payment at the Central Bank for Credits to Individuals. With the implementation of the KB that would of course be totally illogical, but it is important to arrange that. Therefore, that scheme was included in the Royal Decree. My colleague has answered all the questions very well, but I would like to return to one aspect. A question was asked as to what would happen if more than one person entered into a mortgage loan. It's often done by husband and wife together. The charter states that it is sufficient for one of the two partners to be affected by the COOVID-19 crisis. If income falls for one of the two partners, it is also eligible under the conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u27	I would like to thank the two ministers and invite them to replicate if they so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u28	Mr President, I thank the two ministers for their explanations. The ecologists will confirm these two important orders, if only because of the number of individuals involved in mortgages, or 66,000, and the number of companies involved in the deferrals of payments. We ask the two ministers to pay attention to the way things are done on the ground, at the monitoring level. It is important to ensure that all individuals entitled to benefit from the measure of the banking sector – heavily assisted by the public authorities – can actually benefit from this mortgage credit deferral. As far as companies are concerned, it is necessary to be selective with regard to those who do not play the game, on the understanding that the vast majority of companies play the game and suffer economically, like all our fellow citizens. It is quite normal, in these difficult times, to grant them payment deadlines. These deadlines, as the Minister pointed out, are not remissions of tax debt. It's just a time lag, but it's really necessary in terms of cash flow. It will help everyone to spend this very bad time in health, but also in economic and social terms. We are concerned here with economics, which is useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u29	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I believe that I have received an answer to every question. It is very important that, if there are several borrowers, there is a certainty that something can be traced back to something, in particular that, if one of the two partners suffers economic damage, the Royal Decree can still be invoked. The only thing I keep wrestling with is timing. We really need to be very careful when we make predictions. 1 November 2020 seems a long way off, but it is still very close, especially for the economic sector that has to think ahead, make payments in advance and which now has no revenue. I therefore invite you to take care of this and to ensure that we assist our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. You state that the bank guarantee applies to companies and that therefore the mortgages are not involved. However, the bank guarantee applies to the banks and it is the banks that receive and are reimbursed the State guarantee if there is a loss. So the least we can do is to make them respect agreements effectively. Obviously, they have to do that for companies, but not for people who have to pay off their homes. You also indicate that people who believe that the postponement has been wrongly refused can go to the FSMA. Will sanctions follow? One can, of course, make what complaint, but if no action is taken and no law or royal decree provides for sanctions, what is the legal value of the charter? We are not really satisfied with your answer. After all, we demand an adaptation of the Royal Decree, which effectively states in the decision that the State guarantee must at least be conditional on compliance with the agreements you have made with the banking sector, especially in the area of deferred payment for mortgages. With regard to the tax delay, it is of course our view that self-employed and SMEs who have liquidity problems should be delayed. I have therefore indicated that your royal decision is in itself a good thing for them. However, it is important that, at the same time, multinationals and banks that do not need this postponement and can in the meantime avoid taxes and pay dividends also benefit from the measure. For one, the delay is the last straw, but for the other it is a free gift. That was the case with your state guarantee, and that is once again the case. The fact that it is only a short delay cannot be an excuse not to impose conditions, because we all know that the economic aftermath of the corona crisis will take much longer than two months. So if we now help a multinational by paying taxes two months later, we can rest assured that it will not be allowed to pay dividends and avoid taxes in 2020 and 2021. I don't think that's much to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u31	Mr Minister, I would like to talk very briefly about three things. Firstly, I have a suggestion regarding the reports of undue refusals by the banks to the FSMA. I would like to ask you to extend the role of the FSMA's call centre, because if you call it now and look at it on the website, it appears that only questions can be asked. One should not express any reservations and/or make a complaint. The call center doesn't accept that right now. Secondly, I really hope that the National Bank's tool for the follow-up of the figures will be there soon, because it is taking a long time now. Thirdly, you yourself referred to the conditions for State aid. Furthermore this week, following the discussion of the draft law on advance payments, we will be able to have a good discussion on this subject and to attach conditions to the support given by the Belgian authorities to the various actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u32	Are there any colleagues who wish to speak? [[No.]] Then I think we can finish the discussion. I thank both ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u33	Colleagues, we welcome Minister De Block. We have just dealt with the two KBs together, and I personally did not think that was an optimal way of working. I note that the KBs No. 8 and No. 10 actually have the same subject and I therefore propose that we deal with it together. After the discussion on these KBs, we can then get the KB No. 9 treatment. Do you agree to this method? [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u34	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8 and 10 are about financial support for hospitals. It is, of course, a good thing that financial support is being started. The hospitals have been making an exceptional effort for a long time to reorganise resources, people and space. It is time for them to be helped out of the uncertainty about financial support. That is why we also welcome the fact that we are currently working through a provisional distribution key, so that the hospitals will receive the support as soon as possible. However, the Council of State calls for a rapid clarification of the arrangement regarding the 2021 budget financial resources, since Royal Decree No. 8 action on this. I therefore assume that this will be done quickly, but I would like to ask you to confirm that. The Council of State also notes that the European Commission could assess this as unfair State aid. Personally, I do not think this should be looked at in this way, but I would like to make sure that the necessary formalities have been put in place. After this provisional allocation, it will be necessary to calculate in a second stage the distribution needed to cover the real costs. There is also uncertainty about this for hospitals. Is this going to be done soon? Has the working party discussed this? When will the results be known? These royal decisions are about general hospitals, but of course there are also psychiatric hospitals. That is also mentioned. There was supposed to be an analysis of the psychiatric hospitals. When can we expect the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u35	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is a question of a budget from the current health care budget. Do we already have an idea of the cost for the first quarter? On the other hand, it is important that the advance to hospitals cover losses related to revenues that could not be recorded by hospitals because a number of benefits could not take place. In addition, such hospitals must be able to resume benefits for chronically ill patients who need care that becomes urgent. There is also a need to ensure equity between them so that everyone is able to take care of their patients. Indeed, hospitals should not be full VOCID and others should resume normal activities, which would create a distortion in terms of cost and revenue. Respect for this balance is therefore very important. Finally, a balance must be struck in terms of advances to hospitals by ensuring that hospitals are not under too much pressure to resume activities for non-VOCID patients too quickly. In other words, this will have to be done in good conditions, even if, as I said, it is urgent to take over the latter. It's really a necessary balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u36	Mr President, on Order No 8 we have no particular comment to allow the usual extra costs to be covered in hospitals and other health care facilities. However, on the question of the advance, Royal Decree No. 10, we have a series of questions. First, we are concerned about Article 5 and this reference to "compliance with the overall health care budget target already set for 2020". This $1 billion is an advance that has to cover half of the additional costs associated with the VOCID-19 crisis and the other half, offset the hospital's revenue cuts with fee funding. This amount can be released today because of the decline in the activity of health care providers in all sectors, given the epidemic. At present, it is true that non-emergency interventions and consultations are postponed, but if we do not know how high today, there will necessarily be a catch-up that will have to be planned for 2020 and for 2021. For us, it would be totally incomprehensible that the additional costs associated with VOCID-19 should ultimately be covered by the health insurance budget and not by the state budget overall. I would like to go back to the objective of the advance and stress that this advance must enable hospitals to maintain their maximum capacity for intervention, without resorting to economic unemployment (temporary unemployment) as a matter of necessity. I have repeatedly questioned this subject of temporary unemployment without really getting a clear answer. Hospitals also did not receive a clear answer to this question of the unemployment of staff. As a result, practices differ from one institution to another. It is established that the adapted system of the 2021 budget of the financial means will deviate from (...) and that it is also unknown what costs currently incurred by hospitals will be compensated under the new system, and what costs will not be. The Council of State has stressed that such a regime must be formalized as soon as possible, because, for hospitals, there is a great deal of uncertainty about this, and it is significantly greater than with regard to the adjustment of the budget of the financial means between two ordinary years. It is therefore urgent to reflect on this regime, this model for 2021. I also have a question about the notification of the measure to the European Commission. The Council of State states that while the proposed scheme can be considered as compensation for services provided under public service obligations, the conditions for not considering such compensation as State aid are clearly not established. The scheme does not offer any transparency between the articulation of the financial resources to be made available to general hospitals and the objective. Overcompensation is always possible. It must therefore be notified to the European Commission. Madam Minister, I would like to have your opinion on this. As some colleagues have said, the pressure is strong to revive in hospitals a dynamic of non-emergency routine activities, for medical reasons that will be understood, since some patients have postponed their visit, but the situation is now becoming urgent for them, or pathologies that are worsening; but also for financial reasons that are understood, including the loss of income for doctors who have their fees reduced. I also had a question about the care of psychiatric hospitals or home nursing, but I think the question has already been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u37	Mr President, Minister, my question is in line with that of a number of colleagues, including Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Tillieux. I would like to go into more detail about the opinion of the Council of State on Royal Decree No. 8. In the view of the Council of State, the abolition of Article 101 (2) may make the adapted scheme problematic, on the one hand, because it is incompatible with the rules on State aid in the internal market, on the other hand, in view of the principle of equality. It is clear that the adjusted financial envelope for 2020-2021 will be different from the current scheme and that it is not yet known what costs are currently incurred by hospitals under the new scheme and which will not be reimbursed. The Council of State points out that such an adapted scheme should be formalised as soon as possible because there is more uncertainty about this for hospitals than about the adjustment of the budget of financial resources between two normal years. The question is therefore: has this scheme already been developed? On Royal Decree No. 10 I have two points of constructive criticism. Firstly, on the notification to the Commission. The proposed scheme could be qualified as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. For the current crisis, the European Commission is using a temporary framework to support the economy due to the Covid-19 outbreak. We can therefore expect some flexibility, but in fact the Commission is committed to a faster and more flexible assessment of the compatibility of State aid measures in the internal market. This does not, of course, alter the fact that in principle state aid schemes still have to be notified on the basis of the abovementioned Articles. In this respect, I quote the Council of State: 'although the proposed scheme may be seen as compensation for public service obligations, the conditions for not considering such compensation to be State aid are clearly not met. Indeed, the proposed scheme does not provide any transparency as to the coordination between the financial resources made available to the general hospitals and the objective, so that overcompensation is possible." Now, under Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, a Member State cannot implement the proposed measures before the Commission has taken a final decision. At the request of the Council of State whether or not the proposed scheme was notified, the proxy replied that this was not yet the case at the time. In view of the particular draconian sanction which threatens to be imposed in the event of an unjustified failure to notify, the question arises as to whether the notification has already been made to the Commission today. If this is not yet the case, why has it not been corrected? When will this be regularised? A second point concerns the system of provisional advances and the distribution of advances. The discussion, and in particular the explanations provided by the authorised representative, shows that the proposed scheme is designed to meet the immediate financial needs of the general hospitals. The Council of State takes the following view, I quote: 'The Council of State does not dispute the need for such an advance payment scheme, but it should nevertheless be pointed out that a follow-up to this scheme is not only necessary, but must also be formalised as soon as possible, even if the orientations of the set-off would already be communicated to hospitals by means of a circular. In fact, meeting the immediate cash flow problems of general hospitals, the uncertainty remains as to what expenditure will ultimately be reimbursed and to what extent after the set-off and their integration into the financing arrangements of the budget of the financial resources and of sickness and invalidity insurance.' The Council of State is also quite critical of the distribution of advances. For example, it should be noted that the distribution key used does not say anything about the final set-off and its integration into the financing arrangements, so that a general hospital which now receives a larger advance than another hospital could establish that the set-off would create a reverse situation. The importance of a rapid formalisation of the follow-up to the advance payment scheme will therefore only increase so that uncertainty for general hospitals can be kept as low as possible. Madam Secretary, I therefore have the following questions. Did the Council of State's comments on the provisional advance arrangements and the distribution of these advances have already been taken into account today? So has a follow-up been drawn up on the scheme? If that hadn't happened yet, why hasn't it been realized and when are you planning to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u38	Madam Minister, with regard to Royal Decrees Nos. 8 and 10, in view of the Council of State's comment on the type of expenditure concerned, do you have any additional information, so that we can be sure that hospital authorities are given clear guidelines that will not lead to management overload or misunderstanding, now and during counts? My second question concerns the need for a good exchange of information. What consultation is in place to avoid the pitfalls following a lack of information, which has been observed recently, on the administrative requests required and future controls by INAMI? The difficult work done by all hospital, professional and non-health professional teams should be reassured and not burdened administratively. Thank you and I give the floor to my colleague Magali Dock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in response to what the Council of State tells us and in order to ensure clarity and legal certainty of the text, I would like to return to a few points raised by the Council of State. It is certain that the adapted scheme of the BMF (budget of financial resources) of 2021 will depart from the current scheme and that it is still unclear what costs currently incurred by hospitals will be compensated under the new scheme and what costs will not be. The Council of State stresses that such a regime must be formalized as soon as possible in order not to leave our hospitals in uncertainty. Minister, could you tell us what is happening on this issue? I shall now return briefly to the subject of state aid, which has already been much discussed by my colleagues. It's an important subject. The Council of State draws attention to the fact that the proposed scheme could be described as State aid. It is true that a communication from the European Commission provides that, in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis, it will assess more quickly and flexibly the compatibility of State aid measures with the internal market, but this does not prevent Article 108(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides for notification, from remaining in force. I have no doubt for a second that you are keeping an eye on this and that you are acting on it. But in view of the penalty that can be imposed in the event of a failure to notify the European Commission, we would like to stress this point and would like to know what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u40	Mr President, I would also like to ask a few questions about the KB's. 8 and 10. What the KB No. 8 is, the psychiatric hospitals are not getting compensation today. It says in the King's report: "It should also be noted that the situation will be analysed for psychiatric hospitals and that ad hoc measures can be taken if necessary." When will the analysis be completed, so that those hospitals, which are often affected by COVID-19, will find out whether or not they can count on additional assistance? Is the follow-up by the ad hoc working group of the Federal Hospital Services Board or by whom else? General hospitals receive additional funds by way of an advance. In the report to the King, you say that there will be a final set-off of the advances granted. I don't think that's an easy task. Do you have a view of the time limit within which you will have the regularization round? For hospitals, it is crucial to know as soon as possible what the final set-off will be. The BFM data were recorded on 1 January and 1 July. Juli's not that far away anymore. How's that gonna work out? Will this not impose too much administrative burden on hospitals? About the Royal Decree No. 10 I also have two small questions. EUR 1 billion will be released through a redistribution in the 2020 budget. Who will you involve in determining what resources can be redistributed? Which stakeholders will you involve in the discussion in view of the relevant decisions? Which categories or sub-budgets will you draw the funds from? What is the impact on any other policy? You're probably counting on less spending on care delay to find a part of that billion euros there. This concerns us in the sense that delay of care often leads to increased expenditure and an increase in the need for care. How will you catch that? The distribution of funds is not based on a specific COOVID-19 criterion. Some hospitals, for example in Limburg, have been hit harder than others. You justify the choice by pointing out that all hospitals are affected and now have less income, because many planned investigations and interventions have been cancelled. Do you have any figures on that yet? Is the loss of income proportional to the additional expenditure? You make rules for the regularization of advances. Perhaps, if you make the calculation, hospitals will experience an increase in costs for more COVID-19 patients. How will you account for that in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u41	Mr President, Minister, there is therefore a series of royal decisions here, primarily in support of hospitals in the fight against corona. First of all, I would like to remind you that things that were before us a few months ago were thrown away as populism. I remember the reactions to our budget amendment, which now releases 400 million annually for the healthcare sector. First of all, Royal Decree No. 8 will cover the additional costs in the event of a pandemic. The amendment allows the MDB to cover all costs incurred by hospitals. That will be necessary. I had a question about removing the concept of flat-rate coverage from the costs. In the Royal Order, you justify this amendment by saying that this will allow for consideration of the actual costs. In the opinion of the Council of State, it can be said that you have explicitly stated that the idea is not to cover at real cost either. This requires clarification. Why was this deletion then necessary? This scheme will also only be implemented in the next budget of financial resources. However, in addition to the ordinary costs of financing healthcare staff, equipment and infrastructure, hospitals face a lot of additional costs today, combined with the loss of income by canceling non-urgent interventions and consultations. Therefore, a solution was also provided for in the short term through a liquidity advance of 1 billion laid down in Royal Decree No. 10. In this royal decree, I have a number of questions. The advance will be distributed to hospitals according to the activities in 2018. However, there is also a discussion about the distribution between the hospital itself and the self-employed care providers. In this sense, there is therefore a clear demand on the part of the sector to lay down national directives for internal distribution. What is the state of the discussion on this matter? We have heard that part of the advance would be given directly to the doctors. Is there a differentiation in how these doctors are actually still working today or not and so still billing performance? Also doctors who are not in the front line today against corona are entitled to income protection. However, can we defend today that these fees are as high as they were before the crisis? After all, we know that some of these fees are very high. Isn't it better to work with flat-rate fees there? If part is paid directly to the doctors, there is of course also the problem that we do not know exactly how much is going to the hospitals. The doctors pay part of their fees. That system of fees payments is actually a symptom of the underfinancing of our hospitals. If this crisis is over, hospital funding must therefore be examined. Finally, as the Council of State points out, the concern to address the immediate cash flow problem of general hospitals does not prevent uncertainty as to the extent to which hospitals will ultimately be compensated. It was in this context that, at the time of the announcement of the cash advance, the unions called for a commitment from the government to ensure that revenues as they should have been recorded without the crisis were maintained. This maintenance of a standard level of structural funding should help to prevent hospitals from seeking savings or, for example, putting some of their staff into economic unemployment. Minister, what about the government's commitment to this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u42	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone agrees that the hospital sector, together with other care providers, has been doing a very strong job in recent weeks, and will undoubtedly continue to do so in the coming weeks. Support and security for their liquidity, as for other companies, is absolutely logical and desirable. Madam Secretary, I have three questions. Firstly, this is an informative question on a subject already raised by colleagues, namely the notification to the European Commission under the State aid rules. I know the European Commission a little bit. We must not take any chances there. I suspect it will not be considered State aid, but we must be formally in order. Has the notification been made so that we do not run the risk of a boomerang coming back suddenly within a few months and Europe says that no notification has been made and that there is a need to talk about reimbursement. I'm telling you now, black and white. Let us not take that risk. Secondly, with regard to the various stages, the advance that is now being paid to the general hospitals on the basis of known data to strengthen their thesauri is a defendable slope but of course does not prevent us from getting a proper distribution of the funds I hope additional. Do you already have a look at the work of the Medicomut? This working group with health insurance funds and doctors is working on the failure of doctors' income and allowances. You know that some doctors also want a part of that $1 billion. Do you already have a look at the work of the Federal Hospital Services Board on the criteria for the final distribution of the EUR 1 billion? After all, this will be a difficult exercise that requires a lot of work, but it must be a proper exercise. We must take into account the extra cost, the efforts made, the fixed costs that each hospital has. It is also true that not every hospital should have the same efforts, can or will do so. I leave all possibilities open. We must, however, look at the correct distribution. In this respect, too, some speed is needed, as this has an impact on the budget financial resources, potentially as of 1 July 2020, if the normal cadence of the budget financial resources is maintained, and certainly also on the calculation of the budget financial resources of 2021 and potentially even 2022, given the methodology for calculating the budget financial resources. Do you have a visual on that? I come to a second point concerning the practice of phasing. This is now a so-called internal compensation within the 2020 RIZIV budget. Has there been any consultation with the other health care providers? According to the explanatory statement, you are now taking some money away from the other partial budgetary objectives. What consultation has taken place for the 2020 budget? It is also important to know what effect you are taking on the RIZIV budget for 2021. The technical estimates shall be calculated on the basis of the 2019 data and, for the technical estimates calculated from September onwards, the 2020 data. I have one final budgetary question on one point which I hope you can clarify. The explanatory statement states that, in my opinion, any additional funds for the hospitals should not be covered solely by global management. What does that phrase mean? I assume that any additional aid will be granted from the state budget, as is the case for many other aid measures. I assume that you can clarify what is meant by the fact that this is not solely a matter for global management. Finally, I would like to mention another element of political importance for us. The additional resources are needed, as I have already told you, but we also believe that no additional costs can be charged to the patient. The entire COVID-19 treatment for the patient must be carried out by the budget of the hospitals, of the State. We want to prevent the patient, for example, from being charged with non-refundable performance afterwards. The entire COVID-19 treatment in the hospitals is preferably outside, but that is another discussion that has to be borne by the funds allocated by the State in the hospital budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. There were many questions, from almost all Members, about whether we have applied to Europe. It happened on April 20th. A letter has come back stating that this notification was not actually necessary:"We have been informed in touch with the lawyers of the Belgian state on this measure. Indeed, I can confirm that such measure could be very well brought in line with the SGEI-decision and measures which do not need to be notified, so no need for a COVID-19-notication." That is the communication we have received. This may be reassuring for the many Members who have spoken about it. Working groups have been set up and they are already operational. Further meetings are scheduled this week. In hospitals a division has been made according to whether there is more cost or less revenue. One working group focuses on the budget of financial resources, in cooperation with the Federal Hospital Services Board, and is drawn by the FPS. In the other working group it is more about fees, not only fees for the performance of doctors, so-called intellectual services, but also certain fees for corresponding personnel costs and investments in infrastructure and equipment. That working group shall be drawn by the RIZIV. They have already been mentioned here as the Medicomut group. So they're both busy. There has also been a letter to hospitals about what the purpose of the advance is. The advance was paid to them on 23 April. Ms. Hmente also spoke about hospitals. They must resume their normal activities. We believe that care has actually been delayed, either because it was no longer possible to provide it in the hospital, or because the patients cancelled consultations themselves that were still possible. The treatment of cancer or chronic diseases could continue, but some patients were afraid. It was also found in generalists. So a monitoring has been set up by the RIZIV, a bit like we did with the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee during the major epidemic. The number of patients is now falling every day, but the monitoring continues: how many people are new, how many people are in an intensive care bed or under respiration. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee is working on this. The follow-up is monitoring. We are continuing this monitoring to see if we are still ready for a second wave, which we hope will never be there, and to be able to resume the activities. My associate will explain that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u44	Of course, the invoicing of March 2020 was submitted by hospitals by 20 April 2020. She's now being processed by the health insurance funds. The results and the analysis to the detail will not be known until June 2020. This does not, of course, mean that we cannot, in the meantime, map data, albeit crudely. We will do this together with the sickness funds and the IMA, to see how we can quickly get a look at the evolution of expenditure. That's important, too. I refer to an intervention for the 2021 budget, which will, of course, have to take into account the fact that 2020 will not be a normal year, for which, of course, we will have to take collective action, in order to properly identify budgetary trends. The monitor exercise is in progress. You will immediately see that, when the March 2020 billing will be paid but in May 2020, the allocation of the advance will require a certain period of time, in order to do so in accordance with the good principles of fairness, reasonableness and transparency. That is what we are doing in the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u45	Mrs Tillieux, you asked if this was an advance. The answer is yes. As a follow-up, a royal decree is being drawn up with regard to the modalities of this amount. In addition, temporary unemployment is possible for staff when there is no alternative task to offer in the hospital. A final possible solution is conditional. This means that it cannot be about staff falling within the BFM or about staff sitting somewhere in the fees or some RIZIV funding with protocols. Otherwise we run the risk of having problems with that. I thought I said this before. Mr Van Langenhove, on state aid and the opinion of the Council of State, I would like to speak to a better lawyer than myself, Jo De Cock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u46	As regards State aid, it has already been said that this has to be reported to Europe. We have taken the necessary steps through the Permanent Representation of Europe. Mrs Nineman, head of State aid unit, replied in writing that there was no need for notification. This happened the same day, on April 20th.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u47	Mrs Taquin and Mrs Dock also had requests for the European Commission. Mrs. Slegers, psychiatric hospitals are also likely to have an impact. This can also be taken into account in the regularisation process. There's an investigation into the impact there. My co-worker might be able to explain why we take into account the preparations and the work done by all the hospitals. You're right to say that some hospitals have received a lot more patients. You referred to the Limburg hospitals, but I am also thinking, for example, of the reference hospitals Saint Pierre and UZA, which have taken in many patients from the outset. We know which hospitals have received more patients. That is why we have taken both factors into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u48	I would like to take this opportunity to give further details to some of the questions that have been asked. It should be noted that the Federal Council working group and the ad hoc working group are working together. It is true that there is a part on the fees as well as a part on the BMF but they meet regularly to keep it consistent. The Federal Council working group will give an initial opinion to the Minister on these costs and additional costs, and what should be proposed, taken into account. He will work on an aspect of care and propose a regularization with an effectively identical basis for hospitals. There are the basic costs associated with the contingency plan put in place by all hospitals. There is then a flat-rate system per patient, since there is indeed this notion of having extra costs per patient and therefore having to take into account the activity. This is the work we will be looking at in the coming weeks. The Federal Council working group is also already meeting this Thursday precisely to determine the costs and additional costs and to discuss with hospitals how best to determine these reference bases. In this context, the working group of the Federal Council, by giving its first opinion, will also give its opinion on the specific problem of psychiatric hospitals. They haven't been forgotten at all. Simply, they did not have the same pressure in terms of cash flow and therefore did not come out in advance. On the other hand, they will of course be able to benefit from section 101 of the Hospitals Act, since it applies to all hospitals, whether psychiatric or general. And it goes without saying that university hospitals are included in the generals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u49	Mr Bertels, you ask what the impact on the 2020 budget will be and how the budget will be drawn up. That's not gonna be a walk in the park, but it never is. With regard to other achievements and less performance, it will remain a special year. There will also be a tail for the 2020-2021 budget, because we do not know how much longer the virus will put people in hospital. It's a curve with a long tail. You asked a question about the sentence that the additional resources should not be borne solely by global management. Mr De Cock, may I ask you to explain that phrase again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u50	The reason for that sentence is that Article 101 of CRR No. 8 allows additional costs to be borne. In this respect, health insurance funds are obviously not eligible. However, we will have to look at the effects on the overall budget of health insurance funds. Of course, what is now happening with the advance is a temporary recast of the partial budgetary targets. At the time when we will have more insight into the effective expenditure that is being booked, we will only see this in September. If necessary, we shall have to adjust the partial budgetary targets in accordance with the standard procedure......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is clear that the additional costs resulting from this will also be the subject of a special budgetary line, which is currently under discussion in the government, in order to separate them. Moreover, it is a principle which is also called for internationally to identify, as far as possible, expenditure on medical care related to COOVID-19 in the light of statistical processing and, where appropriate, interventions that could still be followed internationally. So these expenses are actually kept to a journal. We must, of course, find a good distribution of this. When doctors are currently doing teleconsultations instead of a conventional consultation, the question is whether or not this is due to COOVID-19. Of course there is a causal link there, but those costs were otherwise done, so in that sense they will remain at the expense of global management and it concerns a different mode of exercise. It is those things that we mean in that perhaps somewhat enigmatic sounding sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u51	Mr President, that is all for this first round. Any questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u52	I think you have answered all the questions. Are there any replies, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u53	I would like to thank the Minister and the others for the comprehensive and complete answers. I hope that I will be able to say that many times in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u54	Madam Minister, I have not received an answer to the recurring debate on the distribution of resources between doctors and hospitals in the field, in hospitals. There was supposed to be part of the fees. I don't know if you have any more information on that or not. Is that a rumor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u55	That point is still evolving. Mr De Cock will answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u56	That is exactly one of the points of discussion in the working group that I am allowed to chair. That's not always funny. There are three parties around the table: health insurance, doctors and hospitals. The fact that doctors are involved is due to the fact that 55% of the fees are paid to hospitals. It is true that the debate is about the postures, the so-called retrocessions, because there is currently no activity and therefore no retrocessions, i.e. no revenue. Hence the demand to grant an advance in order to allow hospitals to continue to bear their fixed costs to the extent possible and to the maximum extent possible. The question is, of course, which medicines will go to the doctors. For the doctors who still have activities, distributions will take place, as they have been classically done. There are also shifts within hospitals, where gastroenterologists are in a COVID department or on intensive care. Then we need to see how that division can happen. That is why we have put forward a number of basic principles which are currently being implemented. That is first and foremost solidarity. Doctors who have made additional efforts should be taken into account in the distribution, in so far as it does not result from the classical invoicing of fees. That's obvious. A lot of doctors were supervising them. A second element is the doctors in training, who have played a specific role here. This also requires a special starting point. Thirdly, there must be an answer to the question of what proportion of resources can go to doctors and how transparent this can be. I would like to point out that if we give an amount now, we will, of course, be regularized later. In other words, I cannot, of course, anticipate the outcome, but according to the discussion in the working group, final allocations can only be made at regularizations. Suppose doctors are currently given an amount that is in line with what some people dream of, then regularisation can lead to recoveries when we are unable to compensate for unexecuted performance. I don't think that's the logic of things. So we are trying to give some of the resources to doctors, but to the extent that no recovery can be made later. Reasonability is another principle that we apply, not to give rise to situations that are not defensible, within and certainly outside the hospital. We are trying to streamline the working group in this area. We'll make simulations, and it'll take some time. The March billing was finally processed in May and will then be deposited in the hospital account. At that time, the major liquidity problems will arise, although the reorganisation of the hospital has already caused a lot of costs. So we have some time to make a reasonable exercise and that is what we are working on right now. Every Friday morning, the working party meets to find a good solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is effectively a very difficult exercise, with the funding system of our health care and the way our doctors are paid, as well as primary care. We have very little consultation today, but when we consult it takes a lot of time. We must completely disinfect the cabinet, change our clothes and then disinfect the cabinet again. So we can only do very few consultations a day. Many discussions are therefore still needed over the next few months, since it is certainly not over yet, as to the way in which good medical treatment can take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u58	Minister, thank you for your accurate answers. I was reassured to hear that psychiatric hospitals will also be able to benefit from the basic compensation. Indeed, this was one of our concerns that I forgot to mention earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you very much for the explanation. I think that we will have further explanations in the next few days and/or weeks, in response to the progress of the working groups in progress. Those are indeed important discussions. With regard to the working groups and the tip of the veil that has been lifted for us, I understand that the amount of compensation for each patient is comprehensive and that there is no additional cost to the patient. As far as Mr De Cock is concerned, we shall be monitoring this particular budgetary line, which the Federal Government will discuss and which will go directly or indirectly to health insurance or to global management. In this way, we will ensure that there are effective additional means to bear the additional costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u60	What we're doing now is a provisional distribution. With the partners of the General Council, we agreed to meet as soon as possible to do the monitoring exercise and to determine the distribution in a correct way. There are two additional lines. I know that you are following this matter very closely. There is one line that separates 1 billion from the overall budget objective and there is a second line that goes into our administrative costs, which relates to specific additional costs borne by the government in the health insurance budget. So you really need to keep an eye on three amounts. The amount in Article 101 will be wound up through the budget for financial resources, or through a similar exercise. A second amount concerns additional financial resources, which will be needed, not only in hospitals, but for all caregivers for whom there are objective additional costs in the field of COVID. The third amount concerns the internal distribution and shift that should be done if necessary on the basis of a clear monitoring exercise. This may, where appropriate, lead to an adjustment of the partial budgetary objectives. Those are the three budgetary movements that are going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u61	Mr Bertels, you had another question about the cost to the patient. There are no brake charges or supplements for COVID patients placed in a single room because they are contagious. I have already said that. The same applies to intensive care. Those appointments have been made and the hospitals are aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u62	Madam Minister, as far as the latter is concerned, there are not only supplements in single rooms or intensive care. Supplements can also be charged elsewhere, but we will still have that discussion. There's a bill in the making about that. I recognize the budgetary lines outlined by Mr De Cock and I shall be monitoring them as he will expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u63	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister and her team for the accuracy of their responses. Madam Minister, we are reassured by your proactive approach to a possible notification to the European Union, which ultimately does not prove necessary. I take note of your communication to the hospitals. The fact that they are not left in uncertainty is obviously crucial, a fortiori in this context. I would also like to thank Mr. De Cock for his indications concerning the adapted regime of the BMF of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u64	Anyone else want to get in the way at this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u65	Then we'll go to KB No. 9 relating to the authorization of the exercise of nursing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u66	Mr President, may I first say something about this? Actually, this KB is linked to a KB that is still coming up, regarding the recovery of healthcare professionals so that we can deploy people elsewhere. I am thinking, for example, of people with physicists training who can be employed in a COOVID-19 department. Then we need this KB to be able to legally deploy them to perform medical duties. They will receive training and will work under supervision. So these two KBs are linked. We hope we never need them, but this is a last resort. If one no longer has enough nurses to take care of and heal the patients, this can be used to ensure continuity in the care of patients at all times. We also saw this happening in the residential care centers. If too many staff become ill or stay at home because of contamination, solutions must be sought. Then the army and volunteers went to work there. The royal decision for the claims has not been taken today, but I will explain it at another time. It's important that we read these two together. There is no change in standards either. The standards remain the standards, but this is really a last resort if we got into trouble. That's something we all think can never happen, but that doesn't rule out it happening anyway. There has also been a consultation with the General Union of Nurses of Belgium. The consultation was constructive because it concerns an emergency scenario. It also has a very temporary character, namely only this COOVID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u67	Madam Secretary, is this about Royal Decree No. 14?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u68	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u69	A royal decision along with the Minister of Work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u70	No, this is Home Office, this is Secretary De Crem. It's about the royal decision regarding the claims.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u71	That hasn't been published yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u72	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-27-55-commissie-ic158x.u73	Colleagues, I address you. The Minister has just explained the link between a future KB and the KB that is now ahead of us. Because of this link, the Minister suggests that the discussion on both royal decrees be conducted together. If we follow that suggestion, then we will take the discussion on CAB No. This is not the case now, but we will take it again on the first possible date following the publication of the royal decree which the Minister has just explained. Can the committee agree to that? Can we agree with this more effective method of work? [[Sentiment]] I thank the minister and the colleagues. We will keep you informed about the forthcoming royal decrees. The KB's Nos. 13 and 14 have just been published. On Wednesday we will discuss aspects relating to Justice. The discussion of Royal Decree No. 9 we will resume at a meeting to be scheduled as soon as possible.
