ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u1	Good morning, everyone. Since our president is a little late, I'm going to open our meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u2	Madam Minister, about two weeks ago, Belgium suddenly asked the European Commission for more details on how the target of reducing CO2 emissions by at least 55% by 2030, the European Commission's proposal, was calculated. This figure is intended to be used to reach an agreement at the meeting of the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination, which took place yesterday. Madam Secretary, exactly what question did Belgium ask about this calculation? My second question concerns the so-called agreement. You tweeted "habemus pactum," on which Flemish minister Demir thought you were a little too energetic in communication. In the Flemish press there is even the word disinformation, but I leave it on Mrs Demir's behalf. I am interested in Flanders' concerns about efficiency on the one hand and flexibility on the other, two conditions on the other. The question arises as to whether or not this is contained in Charles Michel's draft texts that were leaked last week. What will happen next Thursday and Friday? The Prime Minister has a mandate to defend the Belgian position on the minus 55%, albeit with an obligation to defend the two important conditions of the Flemish Government, flexibility and efficiency, as well. If the other Member States do not comply with these conditions, I do not think Belgium can vote in favour, but Belgium should abstain. Madam Secretary, could you give us a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u3	Mrs Daems is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u4	Minister, this is an important day today. It's World Climate Day. It is therefore quite on the agenda to welcome the agreement that was announced yesterday and to question it. For the first time I think we have a national agreement before the European summit. We can welcome this, especially since civil society has been very active. We were able to attend the longest climate event last week from civil society that encouraged you and your government to find a solution. If we understood yesterday's communication correctly, a solution was found to support a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases at the European Summit. Nevertheless, I have three questions on this subject. We heard the communications and read the press, but could you tell us a little more about the terms of the agreement that you found with the federated entities? What is already accomplished at this stage? What is the status of discussions on Belgium's position regarding the acceptance or rejection of theoretical reduction mechanisms, such as carbon sinks or other tricks, in the calculation of greenhouse gas emission reductions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u5	Colleagues, on 19 November a discussion took place between our ambassador, representatives of the climate ministers of the Länder, a representative of the Prime Minister, and representatives of the European Commission on the other side of the table. Indeed, the European Commission gave each Member State the opportunity to discuss its impact analyses of the increased climate target of minus 55%. The European Commission stressed that it is crucial to work quickly on the additional measures of the National Energy and Climate Plan and to make sufficient linkages with the National Recovery Plan for Recovery and Resilience. It also addressed the national impact of the min-55 % target, which mainly depends on the policy choices of the different entities, and the funding foreseen at European level. It was a constructive conversation. The position ahead of the European Council is defined in the DGE. The DGE establishes a negotiating position and it is the Prime Minister who conducts the negotiations in the European Council. We want him to be able to serve the interests of Belgium and the various entities in the best possible way. I have worked intensively over the past few weeks to reach an agreement. The federal government agreement supports the minus 35% by 2030, as it is a logical intermediate objective towards carbon neutrality. We need these European objectives and higher ambitions of other major polluters to protect ourselves from the worst consequences of climate change, such as a rapidly rising sea level. As you said, and as reported in the press, Belgium still wishes to highlight important points of attention in the European negotiations. However, all entities expressed their willingness to accept the target of less than 55%. It is therefore with a constructive and positive message that we can go to the European Council. I am pleased that Belgium, together with Bulgaria, does not continue to put a brake on it and has decided to rejoin the countries that want to move forward. Belgium's main focus will be on the fact that the objective to be achieved must be shared between Member States on the basis of justice, solidarity and cost efficiency. We know from recent figures from Climate Action Tracker that such a commitment actually slows down dangerous climate change. At the same time, the European Commission's analysis shows that minus 55% is good for air quality and health, for the economy and for job creation after the corona crisis. We are therefore looking forward to the operationalisation of the objective, and we will not avoid any difficult questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u6	Mrs Daems, I see you're here now. The Minister has just replied, but I will give you the floor later in the reply. Your question will be taken into account for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u7	Madam Minister, you are very concerned about the conditionality of the agreement that was concluded yesterday, and you focused above all on the ambition of the federal government, which is, of course, your job. However, the reality is what it is and cost efficiency and flexibility remain very important for the Flemish government. I can therefore imagine that we will once again have a problem if there is no satisfaction at the European summit. We can then ask you again about this in the next few weeks. Thursday and Friday will certainly be a very important moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to point out that by agreeing with the various entities, Belgium is sending an excellent signal. We've been waiting for this moment for a long time. This brings great satisfaction and reveals many things. First of all, we must stress the work done by citizens for years and, in any case, over the last two years. This has made us all aware of the climate emergency. It should also be noted that the different governments in Belgium today are able to meet this challenge. This is a great relief, especially since yesterday, we learned that our country has fallen again in the rankings of the Climate Change Performance established by the Germanwatch organisation which places Belgium in 40th place on the 57 countries analysed. This shows, in any case, that we are emerging from several years of inactivity and that today there is a strong political will to move forward in this area. So I repeat once again that it is a real relief. I would also like to recall two or three elements. First of all, 55% is a very important figure, although scientists are asking for even more effort. Let us therefore rejoice in what we have achieved, but bear in mind that we will have to move forward in the months and years to come. Indeed, in its last report, the IPCC requests 65 per cent. I would like to remind you that we know that some are negotiating to cheat on the figures. I really hope that Belgium will be extremely clear and firm on the 55% percentage and that it will not chip with figures on forests, oceans, etc. Finally, let us remember that some countries will push so that European investments can also support nuclear power. But the climate future is not nuclear. In addition, we need money to develop renewable energy. We therefore hope that it is this message that you and Mr. De Croo will take part in the summit which will take place on Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u9	Prime Minister De Croo will also be present tomorrow at the meeting of the Advisory Committee on European Affairs, prior to the summit. That's another time you might be able to question him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u10	Mr President, I was having trouble logging in for the meeting. Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In order to achieve the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement, the level of ambition for 2030 needs to be substantially increased. The European Parliament is right to go ahead with 60% reduction in emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. Last week, the Climate Coalition and Greenpeace presented a symbolic 60-hour action to the various parliaments of our country. The latest scientific evidence suggests that even this 60% reduction is no longer sufficient and we need to aim for a 65% reduction by 2030 in order to meet the Paris climate targets. Hopefully that will be taken with you. We are of course very relieved that you have been able to convince Flanders of an increase in the Belgian climate ambition, even if it is not enough to remain below 1.5°C warming by the end of this century, as agreed in the Paris Agreement. However, we find the conditions under which the Flemish Government has promised its support unreasonable. We encourage you to change that, so that both Flanders in Belgium and Belgium in Europe can contribute a fair stone to achieving the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u11	Mr President, Minister, six Portuguese young people are given the green light through a declaration of admissibility to advocate their 'climate case' at the European Court of Human Rights. At the beginning of September 2020, they had filed the case against 33 countries, including the 27 European Member States. In their view, countries have not been able to implement in-depth and urgent emission reductions in order to secure their future. The ECHR is asked de facto to hold 33 countries responsible for triggering the climate crisis. If young people succeed, the countries indicted would, among other things, be legally obliged to increase emission reductions. The declaration of admissibility indicates that the European Court of Human Rights considers that the climate effects faced by Portuguese young people are so serious that their rights are demonstrably violated under Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. That is, of course, far-reaching, because Article 3 states that 'no one may be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment'. You may be wondering what you have to do with that, as a Belgian minister. Well, the next step is that the 33 countries are obliged to respond to the charge by the end of February unless a friendly settlement is reached sooner. Experts believe that the declaration of admissibility of the "Portuguese climate case," as already mentioned, can set an important precedent and pave the way for other climate issues based on human rights arguments. We've already had climate issues in our country. A case based on human rights arguments goes a step further, of course. I have the following questions. Is the defence conducted at EU level and to what extent are the individual Member States, including, of course, our country, involved? What is your view on the methodology of climate change issues, which are emerging increasingly before courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u12	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the countries mentioned in the complaint are not only the 27 Member States of the European Union, but also Switzerland, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, Norway and the United Kingdom. The decision on admissibility was taken on 30 November. At this stage of the procedure, the Court has not yet taken a decision on the substance of the case. Belgium has just received a notification of the complaint to the European Court of Human Rights. At the moment we are in the first stage, in which the parties can explore the possibilities of a friendly settlement. Such consultations shall take place between the different States concerned in order to see whether a solution can be found between the Parties before 15 January 2021. A coordinated response between the States concerned to the questions of the Court will also be given to the parties. Six weeks later, if there is no agreement, the Court will begin the second stage in which the parties will exchange their observations. With regard to your question on the method of climate change, I cannot comment on my profound respect for the separation of powers and for the means offered by the rule of law to its inhabitants and organisation. It is a right that is available and to which we must act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u13	Madam Secretary, I understand that you are not showing a personal view of the last element here. Perhaps you will do so on the social media, because that is a bit common in this country for politicians, including top politicians and ministers. I look forward to that, but I think I already know the answer. There will be a coordinated action. You have again explained the procedure before the European Court of Human Rights. We will, of course, be following this with great interest, as this could create an important precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 28 September 2020, Belgium, through the then Prime Minister, Sophie Wilmès, approved the commitment proposed to the political leaders participating in the UN Biodiversity Summit, "Leaders' Pledge for Nature". This commitment aims to reverse the loss of biodiversity, to combat climate crises, health crises and the strengthening of social inequalities, the consequences of the human impact on the environment. The same commitment implies the implementation of measures whose effects can be observed by 2030. The text of the commitment refers to a series of measures, including the development of an ambitious and transformative global framework on biodiversity to be adopted at the 15th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD COP 15) in 2021, the establishment of sustainable production and consumption patterns, the reduction of land and air pollution, the sustainable management of the oceans, the development of a fair and green response to the current health and economic crisis, the adoption of investments dedicated to the conservation of biodiversity and the elimination or reinvestment of harmful subsidies. Minister, the "Leaders' Pledge for Nature" is an ambitious commitment that requires the investment of several skills and skill levels and, as such, requires time to implement effective measures. In your policy note, Madam Minister, you stress that you want to "commit yourself to developing and defending measures and policies at all levels to implement the commitment that the Prime Minister made on behalf of Belgium in the September 2020 'Leaders' Pledge for Nature'". Can you now inform us about Belgium's ambitions with regard to the measures mentioned in the text of the undertaking? Can you also inform us about the initiatives envisaged, which have to be presented at CBD COP 15?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u15	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the message of the scientists is clear. Climate change and the decline in biodiversity will both have devastating effects on our health, prosperity and well-being, as well as on sustainable development in general. These two components are mutually reinforcing. It is therefore essential and imperative to take action to address these threats in an effective and coherent manner if the vision of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is to be mainstreamed for present and future generations. We need to thoroughly review the way we consume and produce. We need to think differently and be creative. Belgium is ready to assume its responsibilities and to revise its ambitions upwards in order to develop a global framework for quality biodiversity for the post-2020 period. This is a key instrument for achieving sustainable development goals. Belgium is committed to supporting the actions of this commitment for nature. Since Belgium is fully committed to the cause of dialogue and cooperation, it will always aim to find concerted solutions to global challenges. The global emergency concerns us all. Many of the initiatives I mention in my 2021 Policy Statement and Policy Note are in line with Belgium's commitment under the "Leaders' Pledge for Nature" on which you are asking me. I take the opportunity of your question to mention some of them: a post-covid-19 response, integrating biodiversity and the environment into a sustainable vision, a recovery plan putting in place the necessary transformative changes mentioned in the pleedge, but also in international reports such as the reports of the Inter-governmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), or the reports of the European Environment Agency, etc. All the governments in Belgium are developing together a first draft for the recovery plan. The revision of the national biodiversity strategy, in line with the EU Biodiversity 2030 strategy, and the EU's "Farm to Fork" strategy will enable us to implement ambitious measures to protect and restore biodiversity by strengthening the regional effects already in place and in the future. The BeBiodiversity Federal Strategy aims to raise awareness among citizens, consumers and businesses about the impact of their daily actions on biodiversity. This makes it possible to mobilise the different levels of society in transformative change and in the integration of biodiversity into our daily lives. The website of this strategy is accessible. You will find the address in the written reply you will receive. (https://bebiodiversity.be) Subsequently, Belgium will support an ambitious global biodiversity framework, notably by playing a key role in the preparation of ambitious European positions for COP 15 in May 2021. Belgium is also developing voluntary commitments for the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity. This idea of voluntary commitments comes from a COP 14 decision that invites parties to consider the development of voluntary commitments. These commitments will focus on two key topics for Belgium: developing the blue-green network in and around cities to enhance biodiversity, and making Belgian production and consumption more biodiversity-friendly. These axes were chosen in consultation with the Regions and the Federal Government, because of the high degree of urbanization in Belgium and the fragmentation of its ecological network, as well as the impact Belgium has on its territory and abroad on biodiversity. Each axis has five cross-cutting, concrete and quantified objectives. The idea is that these ten objectives form a Belgian framework for structuring the activities of all public and private actors and increasing their strike strength. It is a bottom-up exercise aimed at highlighting and strengthening the existing efforts of all actors in Belgium. Thus, the objectives are set through the voluntary commitments of each individual in the framework of a public-private partnership. It covers different aspects of EU strategies and actions in the policies of the government agreement, but it also reflects the priorities at federal and regional level, and there are many Belgian initiatives that support these political priorities. These voluntary commitments will make it possible to commit society as a whole to contribute to achieving the biodiversity targets by 2030. They will be presented at COP 15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity next year. The long-term goal is to implement the environmental transition and food systems in a coherent and sustainable manner and to initiate transformative change in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u16	Minister, thank you for your response. I have two remarks. On the one hand, I share your determination to revisit the rising ambitions, as you have stressed, and the concerted solutions to global challenges. On the other hand, I stress and congratulate the ambitious initiatives that you have just mentioned, ranging from the post-covid response with a recovery plan to the strategy to make citizens aware of the impact of their behaviour on biodiversity through a national strategic vision of biodiversity or commitments on the blue network axis as you have just mentioned. It's a subject I'm particularly interested in. So it is with pleasure that I drink and listen to your answers. I will pay particular attention to the evolution of your concerted action with the federated entities so that this COP 2021 can have the seal and imprint of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u17	Minister, according to the WHO, air pollution can be blamed for many health problems – heart and respiratory problems, asthma, allergies, etc. – as well as the premature death of 5 to 9 million people a year around the world, of which 400,000 are in Europe. A Harvard study revealed a few months ago that a high air pollution rate could be related to a significantly higher mortality rate in people with covid-19. It should be noted that this study could be corroborated by an analysis by the Italian Society of Environmental Medicine, which draws the same conclusions, based here on the comparative observation of epidemic curves and pollution of provinces with significant pollution to fine particles – especially those in the Po Valley – and others, rather spared, such as the provinces of southern Italy. More recently, the study Regional and global contributions of air pollution to risk of death from VOCID-19 published in Cardiovascular Research pointed out – based on epidemiological data from American, Chinese and Italian studies – that long-term exposure to air pollution had contributed to the disappearance of about 19% of people who died as a result of covid-19 in Europe. In particular, the study estimates that air pollution can be attributed to the loss of approximately 21% of those who died of covid-19. Madam Minister, asked about this last April, your predecessor said that "the epidemiological evaluation of the collected data is so far insufficiently documented (...), that a period of retreat is necessary, but that a correlation between air pollution and the level of mortality due to covid-19 in Belgium seems possible". Can this correlation now be attested in our country and, more specifically, in certain geographical areas? If so, are you considering specific measures in the immediate future or, in any case, in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u18	Mr Senesael, the literature refers to work that has shown that fine particles carry coronavirus. Early indications of increased sensitivity of vulnerable people in the presence of particulate matter and worsening of symptoms have been reported in several publications. On 12 July, WHO reported on the need to take into account these likely correlations between air quality, particle concentration and serious symptoms of coronavirus infection. On 27 October, the study you mentioned and the communication from researchers at the Max Planck Institute, based in Germany, quantified this correlation. To avoid any misconception, I repeat the statement of the European Cardiology Society, which explains that these figures correspond to "the fraction of deaths due to covid-19 that could be avoided if the population were exposed to lower levels of air pollution, without fossil fuel or other anthropogenic emissions." The causal relationship between infection and the presence of particles is therefore still not demonstrated, even if it is not excluded. On the other hand, a worsening of other health problems that could lead to fatal consequences as a result of viral infection is established. Given the global scientific mobilization, understanding of the disease and the co-factors that influence it advances in an unprecedented way in epidemiological history. On the other hand, given the different methodologies for the international accounting of covid-19 deaths, covid-19 deaths may be underestimated in other countries in relation to our methodology. Precautions and oratory precautions of scientific conclusions are required. They guarantee the accuracy and accuracy of the statements, even if this sometimes makes decisions and communication on the measures taken very complex. As part of my expertise, I will ask my administration to reassess the environmental performance of heating appliances and fuels in order to limit or even reduce the contribution of particulate matter produced by this sector. In this regard, my administration is conducting a series of studies on the evolution of heating techniques by 2050 with a critical look at air quality and climate transition. Other studies are also being prepared to review the quality of solid fuels, such as pellets placed on the market. My policies will contribute to the efforts of the regions responsible for air quality policies in Belgium and within the framework of the NEC Directive for 2030. For measures specific to coronavirus, I refer you to the decisions of the various organs involved. For indoor air and ventilation, I refer you to the opinion of the Superior Council of Health on ventilation in relation to the infectivity of SARS-CoV-2, of May 2020, as well as to the observations of CELINE on the effect of the first confinement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u19	Minister, thank you very much for your full and nuanced answer. I thank you in particular for the request you will make – or have already made – to your administration, and for the follow-up it will bring to you. The information will provide a better understanding of the relationship between air pollution and covid-19-related mortality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u20	Minister, the findings of the climate report of the Royal Meteorological Institute of Belgium (RMI), published on 15 October 2020, reveal that compared to the previous report of 2015, all trends in global warming are on the rise – I think we were not surprised – and that periods of high heat are increasing in our country. Over the period 2015-2019, at least one heat wave per year was encountered, a first since 1892. The one that touched our country in July 2019 had temperatures never recorded in Belgium, exceeding 40°C. The average temperature for 2019 was estimated to be more than 2.5°C higher than that calculated for the period 1850-1900. The MRI researchers point out that, in keeping with the current trend, the increase in temperatures is expected to continue, heat waves are becoming more frequent and intensifying. In particular, they estimate that an increase of 5°C extending that of 2°C observed over the last 30 years can be envisaged by 2100. Finally, the authors of the report stress that "the financing of a structural framework for climate research and services, which formally establishes partnerships with different Regions and Communities, at both the political and research levels, is required at Belgian level", in order to meet the "increasing need for coherent climate information and services for Belgium", a need that "is felt in a social, research or political context, and in particular with regard to the expected climate change and its consequences". Minister, can we have your feedback on the elements mentioned in the MRI climate report? Are initiatives related to the petitions raised by the authors of the report being considered at the federal level? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u21	Mr Senesael, as far as your first question is concerned, I shall be brief. The MRI report shows once again in a well-argued way that we have no choice. We must reduce greenhouse gases today if we do not want to mortgage our quality of life in the future. I will take only one example mentioned in the report. In Brussels, in a highly urbanised environment, the least favourable scenario predicts that the number of heat waves will triple, that their intensity will double and that their duration will increase by half. This must of course be avoided. As far as your second question is concerned, and as I already mentioned to Mr Ravyts in a previous sitting, I understand the request made by the MRI and I would like to support and relaunch this initiative with my colleague Thomas Dermine, who is responsible for scientific policy. If the National Climate Commission (CNC) does not intend to include this point in the future national adaptation plan, I will personally defend this project. The question of how the centre will be presented still needs to be considered, but its alignment with the round tables on the objectivation of climate objectives and their evaluation obviously makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you. I am very pleased with your answer. First of all, because I am pleased that you are cooperating, in good agreement, with Secretary of State Thomas Dermine, who has scientific policy in his responsibilities. Then it's a problem that you're going to take with you, and I'm sure you're going to do a good job in this area, which I'm going to follow and support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u23	I also welcome your satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u24	Minister, a study by a Harvard team published in July 2019 by Science Advance has demonstrated, in the most comprehensive way to date, the causal link between daily exposure to pollution from PM2.5 fine particulate matter – particles of less than 2.5 micrometres aerodynamic diameter – and the early death of exposed older Americans. This study is quite technical. I will not repeat here the elements that were in the development of my question. I refer to the written question submitted and turn to the questions directly. Minister, the Interregional Environment Cell estimated average PM2.5 concentrations for 2016 in Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia. These figures raise questions. Do we have any information on the figures of recent years? Is there a causal relationship between daily exposure to pollution from fine particles and the early death of people over 65 years of age in Belgium? In your policy note, you point out that, given your expertise, your contribution to the essential actions of federated entities will focus on two priority pollutants, including very fine particles. Can we now obtain information about your contribution to the actions of the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u25	Mr President, the many effects of very fine particles are well known. These include carcinogenicity, which is observed particularly in workers who are frequently exposed to diesel fumes. Sensitive populations are clearly identified. Elderly people are, of course, part of this because of the deterioration of age-related respiratory and cardiovascular functions and the loss of effectiveness of biological compensation mechanisms. From an epidemiological point of view, however, data from the last winter episode of 2017 available on the Belgium Mortality Monitoring site indicates higher mortality among those over 65 years of age. However, this excess mortality during the peak of cold and winter influenza is too moderate to establish a causal relationship for fine particles among other factors. This problem is recurrent and prevents the causal relationship between particle exposure and influenza infection. The factor that sows the confusion is the temperature that on the ground falls to its minimum during inversion episodes. Under these conditions, the peak of cold – which facilitates influenza infection – and the reversal of temperatures trap pollutants – including particles – that then accumulate near the ground. While the simultaneity of pollutant peaks and influenza epidemic peaks clearly shows a synergistic effect on mortality, it is not possible to determine on this basis which of the two factors – influenza or particles – worsens the other. Moreover, it is very likely that the two phenomena will amplify each other. This exacerbation is also observed for summer smog, when ozone concentrations and high heats combine their efforts, especially in the last summer when peaks of ozone reached new record values – the alert threshold having been exceeded in at least one measuring station. This had not been observed since 2006. This return of ozone peaks cannot be explained by an increase in pollutant emissions – which, on the contrary, have fallen – but it can be explained by an increase in climate change. The efforts on fixed installations, imposed by the Regions, such as those on products, paints and glues or petrol vehicles have therefore been swept away in less than fifteen years by rising temperatures and increasing the intensity and duration of extreme events. As I indicated to you on the occasion of a previous reply, as part of my expertise, I ask my administration to reassess the environmental performance of heating appliances and fuels in order to limit or even reduce the particle contribution of this sector. My administration is conducting several studies on the evolution of heating techniques up to 2050, always taking a critical look at air quality and climate transition. In addition, further studies are being prepared to review the quality of solid fuels, such as pellets placed on the market. We will therefore have the opportunity, Mr Senesael, to come back to this when the conclusions of this work are known.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. You have already dealt with my reply, since we will meet again on the occasion of the conclusions of these studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u27	Madam Minister, the report of the High Council for the French Climate published on October 6 reveals that, while the figures for emissions produced on French territory have decreased by about 16% since 1990, those for emissions produced abroad to meet French domestic demand have increased. These figures now exceed those of direct emissions and represent 53% of the country's carbon footprint. On a carbon footprint of 11.5 tonnes of CO2 per capita, the share of imported emissions is 6.4 tonnes of CO2. This significant increase is mainly due to the increase in consumption of goods and services produced mainly abroad, in the countries of the European Union and particularly in Asia. The Federal Bureau of the Plan pointed out in September 2017 that the data on greenhouse gas emissions from the production of goods and services consumed by Belgian residents far exceeded the data on emissions from Belgian production. The first were assessed, in 2007, at 145 megatonnes of CO2 equivalent, the second at approximately 110 megatonnes. This difference was estimated at 30 megatonnes. Where domestic production emissions decreased from 121 megatonnes of CO2 equivalent to 110 between 1995 and 2007, total emissions increased from 138 to 145 megatonnes over the same period. Minister, can we have your feedback on the figures and your point of view on the issue of imported emissions? I know that I have already asked this question in the discussion on your general policy note, but in my opinion your answers were not up to your ambitions. The Federal Bureau of the Plan stated in 2017 that "the detailed data required at Belgian and international level (...) are only available for the period 1995-2007". Can we now estimate precisely the proportion of imported emissions from Belgium's carbon footprint?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u28	Mr Senesael, I had indeed asked you to re-ask questions when you were not satisfied with the answer – which I can quite understand. You're right. Both our consumption patterns and our production patterns are, in the context of globalization we know, essential levers for achieving the climate objectives established under the Paris Agreement. The precise measurement of the carbon footprint at national level is, methodologically speaking, a particularly complex exercise, since it is, in theory, a question of assessing the carbon content of trade in all the goods and services we carry out with the rest of the world, which amount to more than three quarters of our country's GDP. In addition to the difficulty of operationalizing this "consumption" approach, our European and international obligations are formulated on the basis of a territorial accounting of national emissions. Thus the greenhouse gas emission inventories that form the basis of our international and European commitments are based on the location of emissions. We're talking about a territorial approach. That being said, as you suggest in your question, the carbon footprint indicator is particularly interesting, since it allows us to assess the evolution of our carbon imports. As such, I look forward to the results of the update exercise planned by the Federal Office of the Plan in the course of next year. In any case, the carbon footprint of our imports will have to decrease. Indeed, whether these imports come directly from our main trading partners or even indirectly from more distant partners such as Asian countries, these economies now clearly also aim at decarbonization. Our direct neighbours are like us in the European climate neutrality framework by 2050. China recently marked its desire to become climate neutral before 2060. Many other countries in the world have shown the same ambition and the election of Joe Biden as President of the United States will strengthen this momentum. Next, our carbon footprint must decrease, through a gradual transition, to a circular economy. This is an essential element on which we must and can act directly. Sharing economy, functional economy, recycling, etc. are concepts that we need to implement in practice and that will affect both our consumption patterns and our production patterns in all sectors. Finally, these new forms of organization of our production and consumption are also likely to increase our resilience to different shocks, whatever their nature. The development of short circuits is the best example. It is therefore in this direction that we must evolve. In this respect, the recovery plan we are setting up at national level is a great opportunity to launch these transformations at all levels in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u29	I am twice very satisfied with your answer, at least this time, minister, for specific reasons. I'll mention two of them. First of all, I think your approach and the ambitious tenacity that I invite you to continue to demonstrate to the Federal Planning Office is to have figures for 2021. I think we need to build on something we can verify and measure. Then you put forward a territorial approach. Emission locations are a parameter that needs to be taken into account and that needs to be well known. Indeed, both in the circular economy and in the short circuits you quote, it is obviously necessary to be able to carry out concrete actions. The assessment of our carbon footprint in terms of our imports may give rise to behaviour that will have to be adapted to the situations that will be analysed. I think we can make it easier for citizens to adopt behaviours when they know why these behaviours need to be adopted. I would therefore like to reiterate my thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u30	Madam Secretary, as you have seen, the city of Antwerp has announced its climate plan in recent days. Antwerp is one of the many cities and municipalities of our country, but it is not an insignificant city: it is the second largest city in the country, with an important impact by the industry and the port. In that sense, it is very important to look at the climate plan of that city. One of the things I have heard, though remarkable, was the appeal to the federal government to also work on a tax shift within the energy costs. We all know that there is a very high tax burden on electricity today, which is much less the case for gas, fuel oil and other energy sources. Hence the call, because it would greatly help with the Antwerp climate plan. Madam Secretary, is there any intention to change this unequal pressure? Do you consider the social effects of an energy tax shift? Do you see these changes within your proposal on the carbon price, or are those two separate files for you? Or are you aiming for one major reform in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u31	Mr Verduyckt, it is an old great that we are mainly taxing electricity in our country and in the Länder and less polluting fossil fuels. However, electricity is becoming ever greener and we need them in many climate solutions such as heat pumps or electric transport. So it is one of the issues that needs to be addressed if we are to work towards a greening of taxation that already evolves the implicit CO2 tax on different energy sources towards the same level. For the sake of clarity, this may also mean that the levy will be reduced for some energy carriers, such as electricity. This has often been called for by many stakeholders and has been addressed on several occasions in the climate and energy policy recommendations. As mentioned earlier, the Minister of Finance will take the initiative for tax reform and will work with me for greening. As I pointed out in my policy letter and note, we take into account European developments, because both a revision of the Energy Taxation Directive and a review of the climate policy architecture with a possible expansion of the EUTS is ahead. It is crucial that we move towards a coherent and thorough reform that accelerates the energy transition. It goes without saying that we are aware of the social consequences, but also of the purchasing power of our families and the competitiveness of our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. For me, a climate plan has two important objectives: either revenue for the State or control of consumer behaviour. This is the main issue in this dossier. This is, of course, never easy, as we have seen in the reactions to your plans regarding the carbon price or the file on the Brussels city toll. We see the reactions of the people and politicians to this and we see how difficult it is sometimes. We absolutely need the courage to take steps in this area, even if it will not be easy. You can certainly count on us. I hope that you will involve Parliament in your plans, which will have to be quite extensive. We are certainly ready to help.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) was also discussed during the debate on nuclear power plants. Any additional CO2 emissions should not be a problem in themselves as they fall within the ETS system. However, there are some reservations and I would like to ask you the following questions. How do you view the current functioning of the ETS system? After all, it seems that emissions from new CEEC plants will be fully compensated under the ETS system, but we must also dare to say that Europe may need to reduce the ETS ceiling a little faster. Are negotiations on this subject planned? Do you have a view on this and say that our country should help to promote this more rapidly falling ETS ceiling at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u34	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, there are many misunderstandings about this important instrument in European climate policy, so I will answer your questions as clearly but as concisely as possible. I believe that the ETS system has been working better since the last reform, but there is still room for improvement. There is now a price for allowances, around EUR 25 per tonne of CO2, which provokes emission reductions. As you pointed out, the number of allowances that come on the market every year is fixed in advance and decreases every year. As a result, together with the rights already in circulation, there is a closed pot of allowances or permitted emissions for electricity production, industry and aviation within the EU. Gas plants are covered by the ETS system. So the rights they have to surrender for their emissions come from a closed pot. In this sense, we say that the additional emissions from gas plants in Belgium do not increase the permitted European emissions and should therefore lead to lower emissions from other plants elsewhere in Belgium or Europe. The price will act as a coordination mechanism for cost-effective emission reductions. In short, it is generally true that emissions from all installations under ETS, including our gas plants, will go to net 0 by 2050. The long-term functioning of the Stability Reserve in the ETS may be slightly distorted in the short term. Belgium supports the European reduction of 55%, which may be approved by the European Council this week. That means a serious increase in ambition. This will undoubtedly also have to lead to adjustments to the ETS, in order to meet the higher European ambition. We do not yet see the exact nature of these adjustments, because the European Commission will not come up with any performances until the spring of 2021. It is therefore too early to consider a possible impact on the CRM or how the federal government will relate to those Commission proposals. However, I would like to point out that a more ambitious objective normally goes hand in hand with a higher price in ETS and therefore more revenue for Belgium from auctioning allowances. Contrary to what I have read in some opinions, Belgium does not buy allowances in ETS but receives money for the rights it auctiones to other electricity producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u35	Madam Secretary, I've read the same opinions. It also states that there are still too many allowances in circulation. These market reserves also do not work optimally. My message today is mainly: ETS or not, there is emissions, we need to take a critical look at it. The Minister says that there will undoubtedly be an impact with that 55%. Given that Belgium supports this reduction, I assume that we will be taking part in the debate at that time in order to review the ETS critically and thoroughly and possibly to reduce it more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u36	Mr President, Minister, both in the context of the Green Deal and in the context of relay policy after corona, a great deal of European money is being spent on climate investment. However, I read in the press that the European Commission is inclined to let the Member States decide freely in which technologies they invest that money in order to achieve their climate objectives. That worries us, as there are plenty of examples within the EU of investment practices in technologies that do not benefit the climate and the environment. For example, Slovakia and the Czech Republic want to combat the climate by means of nuclear energy, but we do not believe that this is the solution. Nuclear energy blocks the advance of renewable energy, not to mention waste. We believe that the sustainable energy system of the future is renewable and decentralised and not a nuclear energy system. I also note that, within its hydrogen strategy, the EU also provides a place for grey and blue hydrogen, i.e. hydrogen based on natural gas, a fossil fuel, and will grant subsidies for it. Finally, with the adoption of the latest list of Projects of Common Interest, the EU ensured that a mass of European money will go to gas pipelines, among others, for 15 years to come. In this light, I find it highly alarming that the EU would like to leave the door open for such technologies to investments in the context of the Green Deal and economic revival. Madam Minister, what specific conditions do you think should be met by investments with European climate money? What position will Belgium take during the negotiations? Do you think it is okay for European climate money to be used for nuclear energy and fossil fuel technologies such as grey and blue hydrogen, gas pipelines and so on? How do you view the principle of technology neutrality for investment with European climate money?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Daems, first of all I would like to remind you that every position in European discussions is the subject of a discussion with the other entities. We therefore need not only an agreement in the federal government, but also with the other governments of this country. This alignment of positions requires a great deal of debate and energy. Without prejudging this position, I can briefly outline the lines that I believe follow from the federal government agreement. The federal government confirms the legal exit calendar for nuclear energy. In addition, several passages deal with the discouragement of fossil fuels, including in the case of investments. It goes without saying that we are taking these ideas with us to the European debate, because climate money must go to genuinely green investments. In this sense, technology neutrality is an ambiguous principle. Sometimes we have to deviate from it to ensure that the transition to carbon neutrality is sufficiently rapid and clear. This is how the coalition agreement opts for zero-emission cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and clarification of your position. You mentioned technology neutrality ambiguously. For the sake of clarity, there can be no technology neutrality for investment with European climate money. Fossil energy and nuclear energy really belong to the past and every euro that goes to those technologies is a euro that cannot go to energy efficiency and interconnection. We are really in favour of excluding fossil and nuclear technologies in terms of investments under the Green Deal or earmarked for climate investment by other European means. For us, the future is renewable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u39	Madam Minister, it is reported that in the European Union there are influential voices, such as Germany, for an extension of the European Emissions Trading System to the transport and buildings sectors. As you know, we are a cool lover of the system. In our opinion, binding national targets are many times more effective for each sector. However, as the ETS is still there to date and there are voices for its expansion, it is important to be aware of the latest developments. In that connection, I have the following questions for you. What is the most recent state of play in the debate on extending the European Emissions Trading System to other sectors, such as transport and buildings? What do you already know about the distribution of the increased European climate objectives between ETS and non-ETS sectors? What is the Belgian position in these negotiations? What are your views on extending the ETS to other sectors? What position will Belgium take in the discussion? When has the effectiveness of the ETS been evaluated for the last time? What were the results of that? Are there plans for an ETS review in the near future? If not, will you argue for that? I note, however, that one question has already been answered in your reply to Mr Verduyckt's question. I'm looking forward to all the other answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u40	Mrs Daems, I cannot yet answer your questions because they anticipate reality. The European Commission will not come forward with proposals for the future climate architecture until spring 2021. The impact assessment on the increase in European climate objectives still covers all options. A choice has therefore not already been made either at European level or by Belgium. The debate has yet to begin. We will examine the European Commission's proposals with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. So I'm early with my question. I'll definitely come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u42	Madam Minister, last month you said that the National Climate Commission (NKC) would meet on your initiative on 3 December. The NKC would consider the distribution of the Belgian climate targets for 2030 and the distribution of the revenues of the allowances between the federal government and the different regions. In your opinion, the European Commission's criticism of the submitted National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP) would also be discussed there. You also promised to make the National Climate Commission more transparent. Did that announced meeting of the National Climate Commission take place? If so, what has been decided on the items on the agenda mentioned? What about the Belgian distribution of the 2030 targets? I would remind you that there should in principle be an agreement on this at the end of this year. What can you say about the European Commission's criticism of the NEKP submitted? You commit yourself to correct this in an action plan, but what are the intentions of the Regions? Finally, will you provide Parliament with the report of that sitting and, if so, by when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u43	Mrs Daems, a serene and constructive meeting of the National Climate Committee indeed took place on 3 December. As soon as I am in a position, so after the adoption and transmission of the report and the reports, I will be happy to answer your questions in writing. Unfortunately, therefore, it is still too early. I suggest that you ask me the same question at the next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u44	Madam Minister, I understand that the report is not yet fully completed. You propose to repeat my questions at the next committee meeting, but I did not receive an answer to the question of whether you would then make the report available to Parliament. I'm curious about that. Could you give me an answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u45	I'll answer in French, if that's okay with you. I want to be very careful with the words I use. It will be more nuanced if I answer in French. Thank you for your understanding. When a meeting is held with different entities, it is very sensitive. As I said, the documents are being approved by the various stakeholders of the meeting. I defend, from the federal and majority agreements, that our work must be more transparent. I will confirm this with the other participants and defend the idea that the documents should be made available to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic311x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
