ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u2	We must accept and swear the oath of the alternate who is to sit in place of Mr Jan Bertels, who resigned on 1 November 2020. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Jan Bertels, who resigned on 1 November 2020. The alternate is Ms. Gitta Vanpeborgh, an alternate for the electoral district of the province of Antwerp. The successor who will replace him is Mrs.Gitta Vanpeborgh, successor to the constituency of the province of Antwerp. Gitta Vanpeborgh's credentials were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh's credentials were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs. Gitta Vanpeborgh to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u3	Gitta Vanpeborgh will be a member of the Dutch language group. Ms Gitta Vanpeborgh will be part of the Dutch language group. We must accept and swear the oath of the alternate who is to sit in place of Ms Jessika Soors, who resigned on 11 November 2020. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mrs Jessika Soors, who resigned on 11 November 2020. The alternate is Eva Platteau, an alternate from the electoral district of the Flemish province of Brabant. The successor who will replace her is Mrs Eva Platteau, successor to the constituency of the province of Flemish Brabant. Eva Platteau's credentials were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. Mrs Eva Platteau's credentials were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Eva Platteau to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Eva Platteau to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u4	Ms. Eva Platteau will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mrs Eva Platteau will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u5	Madam President, may I wish both new Members every success, especially since one of them is a city guest of mine? Mortsel therefore doubles the presence in this house. However, that is not the purpose of my speech, Madam President; I would like to raise a point of order. The government was proposed by the Prime Minister on Thursday 1 October 2020. One of the red lines was the new political culture, which he has a high priority. However, perhaps a separate interpretation will be given. After all, we are today Thursday 12 November 2020, which is six weeks later day by day. Rule 121a of the Rules of Procedure provides in paragraph 2 that the policy statements are to be discussed by the relevant committees within six weeks of the first plenary session following the appointment of the member of the government or members of the government. That means that the deadline will end today. However, a few ministers have not yet been able to submit their policy statement, for example on the important area of internal affairs. On Tuesday there was a call for this, but apparently with little result. Other policy statements were submitted in the course of the autumn holidays, which means that one useful day remained, in order to proceed to a full discussion within the time. De facto, with two exceptions, that process has never been completed. This means that the government, which has already avoided the thematic debates with ministers at the installation, failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure six weeks later. That is a mockery of the whole idea of the new political culture. That's also a contempt for our house. I would like to protest against this and ask the Prime Minister, who is here, to explain why his government does not comply with this regulatory obligation vis-à-vis the Chamber of Representatives, which remains the controlling power of the current government. I have the impression that he and his government are trying to get away from that control a little too easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u6	Madam President, I would like to endorse this. For the autumn holidays, I have already insisted at the Conference of Presidents that the policy papers should be submitted in good time so that we can have a proper look at them before they are discussed. What Mr De Roover is saying here in plenary, I mentioned and protested at the Conference last Tuesday. Almost all policy letters are being addressed too late. With a few exceptions, they will all be on the committee next week. The policy letters of the Ministers for the Interior and Mobility have not even been submitted yet. I therefore fully agree with this and repeat what I said at the Conference on Tuesday: non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure does not show respect for our house and is certainly not a model of new political culture, which the government claims to support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u7	Madam President, I would also like to take advantage of the Prime Minister's presence to make it clear that we had insisted on meeting these deadlines. I would remind you that compliance with these deadlines is linked to the control that we can exercise over the political options presented. Here, several ministers did not even give back their "duty" in time. I would point out that, even when the notes were introduced, some of the discussions that were to take place this week were postponed because other topics were put on the agenda. I don't think that's right! There was a commitment: the Rules clearly provide for six weeks. Finally, we received the government's commitment last week to discuss these policy options. Now, we are in a way faced with the fact that we are postponing the debate, which is likely to be mixed with the budgetary debates. I therefore agree with the various remarks already made in the Conference of Presidents, but also in plenary last week, to obtain all these notes in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u8	Prime Minister, would you like to provide an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u9	Madam President, Mr De Roover, you say that when this government took office, we avoided the thematic debates. That is absolutely not the case. There was plenty of time for that. What I have seen is that the political groups have begun to hold a debate among themselves on certain issues. If I have been asked to do so, I have dealt with certain debates, but the time that was foreseen was almost entirely used up by debates between the groups, which has watered down the classic thematic debate. I am committed to putting these policy statements in order as soon as possible. The fact that the autumn vacation came in, followed by a week with a holiday in it, has created a certain difficulty in getting them all on the agenda. I am committed to ensuring that the resulting delay is eliminated. Strictly speaking, the policy statement is an individual document from the Minister, so you can always address the Minister directly, but I am fully aware that it is also my responsibility to ensure that this can be done in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, when the ministers sit silent for 17 hours at the government's presentation and you come here to say that they have not had the opportunity to react, that sounds rather bizarre. In 2014, with the previous government, every minister had the decency to interfere with the government statement in the debate. The excuse you're putting forward here is kind of bizarre. I believe that it has been known for some time that November 11th, Truce, falls on November 11th. The autumn holiday also falls on the weekend after All Saints and All Souls. I assume the government is aware of the fact that these holidays are on-going. I think you are putting forward a very bizarre excuse for what is a manifest denial of parliamentary prerogatives to know in good time what your ministers are doing. That's what this is about. This isn't a detail. There is still no policy statement on the Home Affairs area, let alone any discussion on it. I find the apology you are putting forward particularly faint. I expected you to have something better up your sleeve than that. I am glad, however, that you acknowledge that Parliament has been clearly and demonstrably ignored by your regulation in its rights. I very much regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you, at the request of the Conference of Presidents, to respect the rules on timing? Rule 124 of the Rules of Procedure states that speaking time is limited to 2 minutes for the question, 2 minutes for the reply of the member of the committee and 1 minute for the reply of the questioner. The speaking time shall be limited to two minutes for the presentation of the question, two minutes for the Government's response, and one minute for the possible reply of the author of the question. I was asked to be stricter in the application of this rule. This will be the case from today. I ask everyone to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u12	Prime Minister, the corona figures remain very high and the testimonies that reach us from residential care centres and hospitals continue to concern us all. I read a report today about the great concern at the food banks. So there's still a lot of work to be done. At the same time, there are also signs of hope. It is seen that the figures seem to be reaching a plateau and that the efforts of the citizens and the government are gradually creating some light at the end of the tunnel. A second hopeful signal is all we read and hear about the vaccine, which does not seem to be within reach yet, but where there is still some perspective. That is a reason for hope, but I am very concerned about this. I am not going to put that aside about the roll-out of the vaccination strategy. This is again a stress test for politics, for all governments and governments together. It is again something in which powers are fragmented, with a piece of responsibility at federal level and another piece in the Länder. So it really is a stress test for our political system and an invitation to politicians and governments to work together. I hope, Prime Minister, that the strategy will be the same throughout the country. Hopefully there will be no other rules in Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels. Somewhere it is also a stress test for society, a stress test for solidarity, because we will have to make very difficult choices. That is why I would like to join Professor De Maeseneer's appeal. He called for a timely start of a public dialogue, perhaps even in Parliament, to try to agree together on the vaccination strategy, to explain it together, to make choices together and to pull the same strings. There's a consultation committee tomorrow. What can we expect from that? What steps have you already taken with regard to the vaccination strategy? Do you agree with me that it is best to prepare this as well as possible, with a lot of public dialogue and with as much empathy as possible for the difficult choices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u13	Prime Minister, Pfizer's announcement that there might be an effective vaccine against corona went around the world like a bonfire. The perspective of a vaccine is effectively hopeful and can represent a step forward in the fight against the coronavirus. The European Commission immediately signed up to a billion-dollar deal with Pfizer. Pfizer's share went up the next day. Pfizer's CEO sold 60% of its shares and made 5 million richer in one day. $5 million for one person. In this story, as in many other stories about the development of medicines, we see Pfizer gaining millions, but it has received 375 million German public money and the technology for this vaccine has been developed in a public research institute. It gives a harsh aftertaste that Pfizer makes millions, or even billions, of public investment in one day. Prime Minister, how will this story proceed? How will we ensure that the efforts of thousands of researchers all over the world to create a corona vaccine will allow everyone to have access to that vaccine? How do we ensure that this vaccine is charged a fair price, and that it is not just a cash cow for Big Pharma. Prime Minister, what role does Belgium play in the negotiations at European level? Is Belgium committed to transparency in contracts with Big Pharma? Are Belgium committed to a fair price? Does Belgium want everyone to have access to this vaccine? And does Belgium also support non-commercial research projects on the development of a corona vaccine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, with this global health crisis, the arrival of a vaccine is obviously expected with hope, questions and apprehensions for some. Unfortunately, for others, it is accompanied, as we have heard, by financial speculation. Several vaccine applicants are currently in the final phase of approval. The European Commission has already signed four pre-order contracts with different firms. These contracts are, of course, subject to the green light for placing on the market. Belgium has already entered into two of these contracts. It is expected to respond shortly for a third, and appears to be awaiting further information on the latest contract signed at European level with Pfizer and BioNTech. Prime Minister, could you take stock of Belgium's participation in calls for tenders at European level? Can you, to date, guarantee that our country will have enough doses to vaccinate all those who wish to, and specifically those belonging to risk groups? What about our vaccination strategy? Are awareness-raising and information campaigns already in preparation? Can you now guarantee that this future vaccine will be financially accessible to all citizens? The distribution and administration of this vaccine will also be a major logistical challenge. Anticipation will be the key word, and our best weapon. Can you confirm that we will be able to distribute and administer these vaccines efficiently from a logistical point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, we have heard the positive news this week that Pfizer's vaccine can give us some immunity and thus help us in the fight against the corona virus. That's good news, though we have to stay on the ground with both feet. The covid vaccine is the key to our freedom, for the return to our normal lives. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that this vaccine is delivered safely, smoothly and efficiently to our patients. I have a few questions about this, because the chaos we are experiencing today with the flu vaccination must be avoided. Will the government have enough vaccines? We are participating in a European tender, but we do not have very good experience with it. We're not sitting there at the table. Can you guarantee that the vaccines on which we sign will also come to our country effectively? Are we actually prepared for the huge logistical challenge that awaits us? My fellow Members have already said that this will not be obvious. Will you include the fine-meshed and low-threshold network of the first line in this story to vaccinate and register? For example, will you ensure that the vaccine can be removed from the pharmacy without a prescription? Do you have a plan for the reboost? After all, we need two vaccines to build up sufficient immunity. The last question may also be the most important. How will you ensure that our citizens are inoculated, that they are with us and that enough people are willing to be vaccinated? After all, we all have to achieve that group immunity together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u16	Prime Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures show clearly that the turn has been made. We see this at the level of incidences and also at the level of the new hospitalizations. On the other hand, we still see very clearly the enormous pressure in our intensive care, despite a very slight decline. The still very high pressure in intensive care continues to translate into everyone who works there. Working conditions remain particularly difficult. A meeting of the Consultative Committee is scheduled for tomorrow. The agenda will focus mainly on the epidemiological situation, in order to understand precisely where we are making progress and where the situation is still very serious. We will check whether the measures taken have led to the turn being taken. However, the current situation is not yet such that we can change our shoulder. Monday will be a first big test, because from Monday many students will go back to school. For the second and third grades in secondary education, a system of distance learning has been developed, with pupils present at a maximum of 50% of the time. In education, we will follow the situation very closely. It is important that the children can go back to school, but we will have to find a balance where this can be done safely. Another reason why we have to be careful is the season. We're up against the season, because we're in the fall and heading for winter. At a time when people stay more indoors and have less opportunity to go outdoors, it is clear that all the activities that take place indoors pose a greater risk than those that take place outdoors. In addition to the rules that we must abide by, there is a need to take measures to further ventilate and aerate. Recent studies indicate very clearly that a large proportion of infections have occurred in indoor spaces. As far as the vaccine is concerned, we have heard some rather positive news so far. We have embarked on a European strategy and I will explain the basic elements of it. The concept of this European strategy is that it gives us, as a country, access to a much wider range of vaccines than if we did so entirely individually. As an individual country, it would be impossible for us to conclude agreements with seven different producers. That is what this European scheme is about. It would also be impossible to obtain guarantees with seven different manufacturers. A country like Belgium would be almost forced to make a choice long in advance. That choice might be right, but it might also be wrong. This European strategy makes it possible for us to lay our eggs in different baskets. This system makes it possible for research to be pre-financed. In exchange for the pre-financing, we will have access to some kind of right of preference over those vaccines. Four such contracts have been concluded so far with AstraZeneca, Sanofi-GSK, Janssen Pharmaceutica and, more recently, Pfizer. Promising explorations are also underway with CureVac and Moderna. Those who criticize such systems, I would like to draw attention to their philosophy, in addition to the fact that it makes it possible for us to make full use of our European dimension. This is about what can be termed the purchasing power of 27 countries, in order to be able to use them to the full on a very large acceleration of the development of a vaccine. Normally, the development of a vaccine takes many years, but this period of development is very much shortened. A second element is that there is a very passionate form of public-private cooperation. Yes, part of the science on which one relies was developed within the academic world. On the other hand, they make full use of the innovative power, the commercialization power and the development power that the private sector has. Worldwide, we are faced with one of the greatest challenges we have ever faced. If, at such a time, we bring the public and private sector together with their strengths and, on that basis, we try to do the best for the people of Europe, that seems to me to be the right approach. A task force has been set up to deal with the vaccination strategy that will be used. I would very much like to know all the details of this today. However, these details are largely based on the characteristics of the vaccines, whose mechanisms of action are very different from each other. This means, for example, that clinical studies, the results of which will be available in the next few weeks, will still need to show today whether all these vaccines are equally appropriate for use in, for example, young people or older people. The details of the effects of the vaccines are still not sufficiently known today. We are in the process of drawing up the vaccination strategy, but for the different vaccines it will still be necessary to identify the vaccine for which strategy is most appropriate. In any case, I can already repeat to you - because the information is not all recent - that under the Europe Agreement Advance Purchase Agreement, we have already concluded contracts for the purchase of 12.9 million doses from two pharmaceutical companies. These are 7.7 million doses in AstraZeneca (with a two-dose vaccine) and 5.2 million doses in Johnson & Johnson. The current system is an opt-out system. Therefore, if we do not react, we are entering into European mechanics, that is to say the agreement reached between the Commission and Pfizer this weekend. We have an opt-out clause but for the moment there is no indication that Belgium will use this system. Some have already indicated that these are important positive signals. These are important positive signals that our change in behaviour has finally brought down the figures. However, we are still closer to the start of the marathon than at the arrival. The good news at the scientific level is a good first indication. However, the real details of the effectiveness, safety and functioning of the vaccines still need to come up. We will base our strategy on that. This strategy must be handled politically in the same way as we ask our people to do. We ask our people to work as one team and all pull together on the same horse. I assume that we can also do the same politically as one team working together to protect our people as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u18	Prime Minister, you have quite rightly used the word 'cooperation' very often. A country alone cannot do this. The universities alone can't do this. The know-how of the sector itself is also needed. To make it a real success in the end, cooperation will be essential. Hopefully that will also be the case for our country and we will have a similar strategy for the whole country. Hopefully this doesn't create extra friction, uncertainty or uncertainty. Of course, the government has an important role to play. A lot of questions remain open. An important nuance you present today is that the characteristics of the vaccine will be very important for the strategy itself. We should also have an open exchange of views in this House on this issue. Previously, Parliament also laid down the modalities of the app. That is also a sensitive issue. Around the vaccination strategy something similar can happen, hopefully across the boundaries of majority and opposition to pull the same string as one team.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u19	Prime Minister, you are talking about cooperation. However, I would like to emphasise the following. Firstly, public money is invested in research. Secondly, public money is invested in the pre-purchase of those vaccines. Thirdly, you did not say that, but the clauses negotiated at European level also mean that, if there are side effects, we also have to bear the costs. The winnings will go to Big Pharma. You didn't say that. Pfizer immediately, so to speak, brings in a deal of 4.9 billion euros. If we want health to be above profit, we have to negotiate seriously with these companies. The government must ensure that the vaccine is accessible and efficient for everyone. If we just let Big Pharma go on, it'll be a win for them. That's all that matters to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u20	Prime Minister, thank you for that clarification. The vaccine race, as we have heard, is therefore under way. The announcements of the various firms follow one another, with this hope that wins the population. However, the purpose of these announcements is also to make the Stock Exchanges and the hearts of shareholders tremble – and this is a revolt. In a poll published in October, the Belgians spoke in unison in favour of solidarity and universal access to the vaccine. Next December, you will participate in the thirty-seventh plenary session of the United Nations, which will be devoted to VOCID-19. There should be a strong position in favour of a vaccine in the public domain, without a patent, universal and in the service of the health of all humans. Indeed, this long-awaited vaccine must be regarded as a basic necessity. The European Union and international organisations must be the guarantors. This vaccine is clearly not a commodity like any other, but rather a commodity of basic necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u21	Mr Prime Minister, after the oral mask saga, the testsaga and the flu vaccine saga, I predict the covid vaccine saga. What concrete action have you already taken to ensure that the covid vaccine will be distributed correctly and will easily reach our patients and who really needs it? I didn't hear anything about that in your reply. Are we prepared? You're not reassuring me. We're not at the table. It goes without saying that not all the details are yet known, but we need to look at how we are going to distribute that vaccine now and it is now that we need to address the first line. One vaccine should be stored at 70 degrees, but remains stable in the refrigerator at the pharmacy for 5 days and the other vaccine is a cold chain vaccine. GPs and pharmacists are ready, why don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u22	The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, democracy has spoken. Joe Biden was elected President of the United States and, most importantly, Kamala Harris became the first woman of African and Indian descent to take up the important office of Vice-President. I very much hope that this will not be the last. It is important that we put ourselves a second in the place of these generations of black women discriminated against, spoiled Native Americans and people of Asian origin mocked directly by President Trump on the occasion of his official speeches. I am thinking above all of George Floyd and I think that it is an entire nation, a whole country that can now wake up after having lived a nightmare in terms of vulgarity, hatred and violence. At the same time, Prime Minister, we would be wrong to believe that the page could be mistakenly turned in Belgium, that the trumpism would be behind us. Indeed, the work is just beginning. Some, here in this assembly, still support Donald Trump's nauseous ideas. Some are even directly advised by Steve Bannon, who was still present in Brussels some time ago, to support this brown wave in our country. Prime Minister, how are you going to defeat trumpism in Belgium? If I may, when you meet President Biden, I would like you to send him two messages on our behalf: - "Try to fight for human rights, even when it bothers, even in Saudi Arabia, even if you have to go against the colonization of the West Bank"; - "Welcome back Mr President, come back to the Paris agreements and become, with Europe, with Belgium, a locomotive of the ecological transition".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u24	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, thank you for your question. Democracy is articulated differently in different countries, but what guarantees democracy is the institutions: strong institutions, institutions that are respected. At each election, a candidate has the opportunity to challenge a result before the courts and the judgement handed down will then have to be respected. The concept of independent and strong institutions is clearly the best safeguard in a democracy. Like almost all of my colleagues in the European Council, I have conveyed my congratulations to President-elect Joe Biden. Between Belgium, Europe and the United States, there are, of course, a plethora of files that cannot wait and for which we would like to be able to start a new discussion. But time has to be given. We must respect the functioning of American institutions and respect their judgment. Finally, I would like to conclude with a very explicit sentence that has been taken up by some in the United States: "The orderly transfer of authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes place as it has for almost two centuries and many of us stop to think how unique we really are. In the eyes of many in the world, this every-4-year ceremony we accept as normal is nothing less than a miracle." This sentence was pronounced by former Republican President Ronald Reagan, whom I respect very much and who, too, respected the institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u25	Prime Minister, thank you. Nothing less than America! I do think we can draw inspiration from Joe Biden's election. When the Democrats, when the progressives decide to work together on concrete solutions for people, they can defeat the populist and nauseous ideas of the far right. It must also inspire us in our work, in the work of your government. I remember a few months ago, I was in Harlem. I was doing door-to-door with Bernie Sanders' supporters, not so much to vote for a particular candidate, but to convince the Americans to register on voters' lists. Here, first and foremost, democracy has won. I hope that democracy will win again and again in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u26	Mr Prévot, you wish to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u27	Madam President, I would like to have an explanation because we see that the Prime Minister is responding to international policy questions that have been addressed to Mrs Wilmès. On the other hand, to other international policy questions, such as that of Nagorny Karabakh, which have been addressed to the Prime Minister, he does not deign to answer and refers to Mr Clarinval, who will have to be convinced of the ability to respond, given these matters, to these issues of global conflict. I do not understand this double standard on international issues. Does the Prime Minister agree to answer only what is friendly, while when asked personally, he refers questions to others of his ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u28	Madam President, as you know, the discussion on who answers the questions is almost weekly. Virtually every week, we talk about it, try to decide and in doing so, we are always open to criticism. The question about the United States was related to the fact that there were congratulations from me to the President-elect. I thought that, as I had expressed these congratulations on behalf of the whole government, it might be a good idea for me to answer that question. I hear the things you put forward and I admit that we can see things in another way. I don't dispute that, but at some point we have to make a choice, what I did.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u29	I understand that this remains the government's prerogative to determine how it breaks down the issues. However, do not lose sight of the signal that this sends to those concerned by these issues which deplore that it does not deserve the Prime Minister to stand on a particular topic or international conflict, even though it is he who is being questioned - referring the subject to a minister who is not a secretary of state in charge of international relations, or even assistant for foreign affairs. I invite you and your firm in the future to perhaps pay more attention to how these international issues, in the absence of Mrs Wilmès, can be dealt with. Poland also seems to have suffered the same setback. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u30	Madam President, I would like to say to my colleague that Mr.Clarinval is not a deputy minister and that, as part of the government's organization, the Minister of Foreign Affairs generally delegates someone close to her to answer in her place, apart from the explanation that the Prime Minister has just given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u31	Madam President, my colleague, Mr Piedboeuf, gives me the opportunity to speak in this debate. I am surprised by the Prime Minister's response. I would remind you that my question was addressed to the Prime Minister, while Mr. Cogolati's question about the United States was addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would also point out that on Poland - and I do not see very well what congratulations we are going to address to the Polish government - you have also taken up the question from the Foreign Minister, and that you have again rejected the question of Armenia, which is still burning. There's a drama going on there. We were indeed waiting for the Prime Minister's voice on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u32	We are going back to Mrs Gabriëls' question of topicality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u33	Prime Minister, yesterday we again received shameful images from social media following a parade in Poland on 11 November. Polish nationalists and right-wing radicals came to the streets, which once again resulted in severe violence. In Warsaw, an apartment with a rainbow flag was bombed with fireworks, leading to a heavy fire in the apartment complex. Colleagues, we have to realise that this happens at 1,300 km from Parliament in a European country where people cannot be themselves and even physically attacked because of their orientation. We cannot just stand by and watch, because it is already known that the Polish Prime Minister, Mr Duda, wants to silence the Igbtiq community and turn the clock back for years. My good colleague, Goedele Liekens, has already tabled a motion for a resolution to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in June to denounce that problem in Poland. After all, the incident is nothing new. Poland repeatedly points out that it is an internal matter for a Member State of the European Union, but that argument must be unacceptable to us. Article 2 of the Treaty of the European Union lists the values of the Union, namely freedom and equality as well as respect for human rights and human dignity. When we look at the images from Poland, we see absolutely no such thing. There is a novelty, because on 5 November the European Council and the European Parliament reached an agreement on the rule-of-law mechanism. As a result, subsidies are linked to respect for the values of the European Union. If states join or want to be members, they also commit to those values. Prime Minister, what is our country's response to what happened yesterday? How will the 5 November deal affect the situation in Poland? Have you been in contact with your European colleagues on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u34	Mrs Gabriels, thank you for the question. The arson, which I found blood clotting, is absolutely unacceptable and goes completely against everything that the European Union stands for. Yet this happened on European territory, in the European Union. The European Union is so much more than a single market. The European Union also stands for values that are not negotiable. Every European has the right to be who he or she is, regardless of sex, regardless of colour, regardless of sexual orientation. Let me make it very clear that Igbt rights are human rights. Human rights are universal. There is absolutely no place in Europe for relativism with respect to human rights, and there is therefore absolutely no place for relativism with regard to lgbt rights. Belgium supports the European Commission's mechanism, whereby European Commissioner Didier Reynders lgbt rights, like the introduction of the so-called lgbt-free zones, the government has already worked on this in recent months - taking part in its follow-up to the Polish rule of law. In our view, it is absolutely clear that this review should be carried out in a very precise manner. We have every confidence in Mr Reynders in this matter. I also asked our Warsaw embassy to prepare a response, together with other European countries, in order to associate as many European countries as possible. Our embassy in Poland is also very active around the theme, in recent months also often together with Polish civil society. The problem you are raising is one that we are seeing today in Poland and, unfortunately, in too many different places in Europe. In our country, too, there is clearly still work to tackle this kind of hatred and discrimination. For this reason, the government is also preparing a new Igbt plan. If we want to change the world, we have to start with ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u35	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your clear statement. Indeed, it is totally unacceptable that this should happen in a European country, and we must continue to condemn it as a democratic Member State in the European Union, even today. We must send a signal that we continue to support the Igbt+ community in Poland and that the values of equality and tolerance must be respected, not only in Poland, as you said, but in every Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u36	Madam President, Minister, 'work is the safest place in the world'. Those are the words of the VBO. Nothing could be further from the truth. The figures you published on Monday show that more than half of the companies do not comply with the corona measures. I'm not surprised. The signals I'm getting from the workplace are really unbelievable. Employees work together in a landscape office, although they can work telework. An employee, a warehouser, must continue to work, although his colleague is infected. In fact, the prevention service is pleased to see that further work is being carried out, because 'the safe distance could still be kept'. However, the fact that they have been dragging boxes in a poorly ventilated room together for hours is not to be charged. Housekeepers come into a house and get to know that the man is in his bed with corona. The most disgusting example I have been given is an employer with corona who has continued to work with his employees. At the moment, four of his eight employees are ill. Minister, that is irresponsible. Many workers are afraid; they are terrified to get sick themselves, to infect their families, but also to lose their jobs. It is inconceivable and even vengeful that we close bars and shops, that everyone makes huge sacrifices, while more than half of companies do not comply with the basic rules and affect our health and our economy. If we want to protect our health and our economy, we must also protect the workers who make our society run. The welfare inspection wants more targeted checks, but does not have enough manpower to do so. That is why I have the following questions. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, thank you for your question. Telehome work is mandatory for all staff, unless this is impossible due to the nature of the function or continuity of operations, activities or services. If telehomework cannot be applied, employers shall take the measures to ensure maximum compliance with the rules of social discrimination. Those who are unable to work telework must be given a certificate or other evidence confirming the need for the staff member concerned to be present at the workplace. No model form was drawn up for this certificate, but the entries to be included on the website of my administration are indicated. The social partners in the National Labour Council were invited in June to review existing regulations on telework in the light of the health crisis and to indicate whether additional initiatives or rules are needed in the field of telework. At the beginning of this month I called on the government to respond as soon as possible to the question of the application of the provisions contained in the collective agreement No. 85 on telework imposed on it by virtue of corona. I repeat that call very explicitly today. Workers and employers urgently need a very clear and secure legal framework. Employers who do not respect the measures risk severe sanctions. The measures decided upon by the Consultative Committee are of public policy and must be complied with by all persons on Belgian territory. If a person considers that his employer does not comply with the federal regulations, he can contact the employer and/or the hierarchical line in the first place, the members of the committee for prevention and protection at work, or, in the absence of them, the syndicated delegation, third place the prevention adviser of the internal and/or external service for prevention and protection at work, and fourth place the competent regional management of Welfare at Work. The monitoring of compliance with these telework measures has been entrusted to the Department of Welfare Supervision of the Work and Supervision of Social Laws. In the event of infringements, they may make findings and act as a deterrent. This inspection service has also been strengthened by other inspection services, such as the Monitoring of Social Laws, the Inspection Service of the RSZ and the RIZIV. In addition to checks after complaints, they also carry out more general investigations on their own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u38	In truth, Minister, I do not think it is very respectful that some employers are still reacting in this way, not very respectful of their own staff, but above all of the care personnel who are currently moaning and almost crashing under pressure. I am pleased that you are helping the inspection services by providing immediate cooperation between the various inspection services, but I think that many workers are still afraid to take action on the basis of the directives on prevention services and to contact their hierarchical superiors. They are also afraid to lose their jobs in these corona times. I therefore hope, together with you, that the inspection services will soon be strengthened further so that they can carry out the checks and that sanctions will actually be imposed against employers who play with our health, but also with our economy and our future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u39	Madam President, Minister, last week the government drew up a new package of measures to address the impact of the corona crisis on citizens and businesses as far as possible. One of the measures is once again opening up to all companies of temporary unemployment due to force majeure. This shall apply at least until the end of March 2021 and may be renewed if necessary. This is a much needed safety net to help jobs and businesses get through this crisis alive. It is not good news if companies have to resort to the system of temporary unemployment, either for the employee or for the enterprise. However, we can ensure that this period is used very usefully to invest in the career of the affected worker. Why not put extra emphasis on training and training during this temporary unemployment? This will ensure that these workers do not end up in social isolation and that they or they are better educated from the crisis, which is good for the employer, but also for our society. In addition, a faster allocation of temporary unemployed to another temporary job can also be used. In addition, Flanders has released additional resources to provide digital training and the government agreement states that the government should encourage employers and employees to follow training courses during temporary unemployment. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What efforts will you make to strengthen cooperation between RVA and VDAB, FOREM and Actiris to use periods of temporary unemployment for temporary training? How do you see the cooperation between the federal level and the Länder? A number of temporary unemployed who cannot resume their job for a longer period of time is absolutely asking for a temporary job. Think of the people in the hospitality industry who want to make themselves useful in the healthcare sector. How do you want to simplify the rules so that employees can work temporarily with another employer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u40	Mrs De Jonge, I am aware that the training of workers throughout their career is fundamental to preparing them for changes in the labour market as well as possible. As you know, training also occupies an important place in the coalition agreement. In consultation with the social partners and the Länder, the government will invest in the training and training of workers throughout their career. For example, we will set up an individual training account, so that every full-time employee is entitled to at least five days of training per year on average. Together with the Minister of Finance, we will also develop tax advantages for companies that provide their employees with more hours of training than is prescribed. The government agreement stipulates that we will encourage employers and workers to use longer periods of temporary unemployment to follow training and training. We will consult with the Länder to enable training for workers who are temporarily unemployed for a relatively long or structural period. Workers who are temporarily unemployed will thus have easier access to training. It is the ambition to use this period of unemployment to improve knowledge and skills and to offer new opportunities such as access to new jobs or more responsibilities. This also offers opportunities for companies. Training is a fundamental element in ensuring competitiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u41	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed now, during this temporary unemployment, that it can be done. Now we need to raise awareness and ensure that people receive training. That way, they might be able to re-educate and re-orientate. That's very important. It is also important to emphasise the cooperation between all employment institutions in our country. The VDAB only recently found out who's unemployed, so there's still some work to be done. In addition, we must continue to check whether temporary unemployed cannot find another job. It is certainly a positive development to ensure that the social isolation of temporary unemployed is broken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u42	The autumn vacation has been extended for a week. Next Monday, most students have to go back to school. Schools may start in code orange, sometimes not the full class, but part of the class. So a lot of parents have their hands in their hair. They wonder whether they can apply for quarantine leave in that case. The majority in Parliament recently adopted a law allowing parents to apply for temporary unemployment through their employer when a school or a class, crèche or institution for disabled children closes or closes in part. This way they can take care of their children. Now both parents and schools and businesses are asking whether the scheme can also be applied when a class is closed not for all pupils but for half of them. I think we can do that. We have also allowed quarantine leave when part of the school is not accessible. The government intends to extend temporary unemployment due to quarantine of the child to other situations in which the child is to be quarantined under the 38 corona measures taken. I therefore believe that parents should be given the right to apply for quarantine leave at a partial closure, i.e. when the class is only allowed for half the pupils. Do you agree with my interpretation? If so, are you also prepared to provide the necessary clarification, including through the website of the RVA, so that working parents are aware of the measure and no longer have to deal with it because of the care of their children?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u43	Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your question. The government shares your concern about the care of children who cannot go to school every day of the week or only one week in two. The provisions of the Law of 23 October provide for a right to temporary unemployment for the parents of children whose school closes. The schools that switch from teaching on all days of the week to a system of alternating teaching at school and online do not really meet the definition of closing a school. That is why I have prepared a draft law, which will be presented to the Council of Ministers tomorrow. The draft provides that parents of children under 18 years of age and disabled children without age limits who cannot go to school due to the partial closure of the school will also be entitled to temporary unemployment corona during the period in which the children have to stay home and will receive lessons online because they cannot go to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that this concern also lives on the part of the government and that you are prepared to give that interpretation to it. When we adopted the text in committee a month ago, we had such a situation in mind, but it was not literally in it. In the spirit of the law, which we voted by a majority in Parliament, we believe that parents of students for whom the classroom is not accessible should be given the right to quarantine leave because part of the pupils have to take digital lessons. You will resolve the issue with a draft law and I hope that the government will approve it quickly and that, as we already know today, it can be communicated that it will be all right, because the schools will start next Monday. It is urgent time to allow the scheme as from Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u45	Mr Minister, seven months ago I asked your predecessors several times about the definition of essential shops and I never received a clear answer. They tried to hide behind the National Security Council or a crisis center every time. In the meantime, ten days ago, it was decided once again to close down the non-essential shops, and again, it is unclear which things are essential or not. It was therefore afraid to wait for the miniserial decision to see what would be in it. Once again, this did not provide any clarity, it was arbitrariness. I don't know if you realize how it works in practice, but right now a tile shop can be open and a kitchen shop can't. Now you need to explain to me how it is possible for me to choose tiles but not kitchen. I do not understand that and I am sure that many other Belgians and entrepreneurs do not understand that either. Over the past week, more and more sectors have expressed their concern about this. They were crying out for help because they don't understand the logic behind it either. The news this morning again showed that entrepreneurs are creatively working on the rules and they can't really be blamed. In itself, it is a noble goal that the government wants to create a level playing field by not allowing shops that are allowed to remain open to sell non-essential products, but logic is lost here too. Can you explain to me why I can buy a Christmas tree but order the lights and Christmas balls online? After seven months, Minister, we are still not moving on. Can you explain to me the logic behind these rules? Make this clear once and for all. On the basis of which criteria have you decided which shops may remain open and which products are essential and which are not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u46	Mrs Houtmeyers, you are asking an important question which will have a difficult answer. Essential and non-essential sectors are defined in the Minister for the Interior's decision. That Ministerial Decision shall be regularly amended following decisions of the Consultation Committee, based inter alia on the information provided by experts in Sciensano. The most recent is, as you know, the ministerial decision of 1 November. The experts' data have meant that we have to make very binding decisions again for each of us, for example, by making the reduction of our social contacts compulsory for workers and employers by teleworking and also for all sectors of our economy which have to close down. It is clear that these decisions are difficult to make, but they are binding on us for the health of all of us. The Ministerial Decision provides a list of key or crucial sectors that should remain open as they are indispensable for the population. The Ministerial Decision speaks more specifically about private and public enterprises, businesses and services needed to protect the vital needs of the nation and the needs of the population. These include, for example, defence and security, as well as waste collection and treatment services. In the private sector we can mention the production of medicines. For example, the list of essential and non-essential sectors is defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u47	Minister, allow me to say that it is still not clear. It is still unclear to me and to many entrepreneurs why the tile shop should be open and not the kitchen or bathroom shop. It is a difficult period for everyone, not least for our entrepreneurs, so I think it is the government's duty to provide absolute clarity. You must not engage in arbitrary or arbitrary behaviour; you must simply ensure that the rules are clear. Many companies are currently closed down in many sectors, and it is likely that they should not have closed down at all. They could have operated safely, but they are now suffering enormous economic damage. This is due to a failing policy in this area, and in my view that is your responsibility as Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u48	Madam President, Minister, there's no need to draw a picture, we're going through a terrible crisis. It is necessary to defend workers; save employment; preserve the fabric of SMEs, businesses and artisans; reinvest in the health sector; and meet the historical challenge of the climate. This solidarity is vital, but will cost billions. The response to this cost can never again be translated into broad austerity plans. These recipes will always lead us to a dead end. Even the most convinced of the past realize this today. In this context, the European Union obviously plays a decisive role – provided that it forms the right choices. For now, she's looking for billions. The debate on the Union budget is continuing. In addition to its lack of budgetary ambition, the Council has once again dared to propose a standstill on the creation of a tax on financial transactions. Yet, during this time, speculative markets are doing well: "Coronavirus, the stock market opportunity of the decade", this is what can be read and heard in some circles. In short, this means that while our eyes remain riveted on hospital admission curves or on bankruptcy figures, some are scrutinizing stock market prices and speculating. Why would speculation be immune to VOCID-19? As you know, the financial transaction tax is, at the bottom of the line, EUR 50 billion a year, sticking to the proposal for a directive presented by the Barroso Commission in 2011 – which is the minimum of what we need to achieve. The agreement between the European Parliament and the Council would have resulted in the inclusion of this tax in the European Union's multiannual budget. This is a first step. However, the real question is: how big is it? Is it a minimalist tax or a tool that meets the challenges facing us? Mr Minister, I ask you: what position will Belgium adopt at European level? Does our country well defend – in accordance with the government agreement – an ambitious agreement that can raise more than EUR 50 billion a year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u49	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your question. With the introduction of a financial transaction tax, known as the TTF, the aim is to make a fair contribution from the financial sector to the cost of the current crisis. This proposal for enhanced European cooperation with ten countries is part of European tax harmonisation. In accordance with the government agreement, Belgium plays a constructive role in the implementation of this TTF. The TTF Technical Working Group met for the last time on 12 November 2019. Belgium participated constructively and highlighted a number of our country's concerns: the impossibility in the current proposal of pension fund transactions; the impact of the TTF on stock exchanges and the economic impact on the Belgian Stock Exchange for the relocation of financial activities, for example the Netherlands and Luxembourg, which do not participate in enhanced cooperation in the field of TTF; the exclusion from the scope of specifically speculative transactions. The Austrian Finance Minister recently expressed his wish to revert to the Commission's initial proposal of September 2011. This proposal opted for a broad tax base covering all types of financial instruments. Due to the outbreak of the VOCID-19 pandemic, the issue of TTF will no longer be addressed in 2020. As a result, the meeting scheduled for October 29th has not taken place and no new meetings are planned for the time being. However, as soon as the file is taken over, you will be notified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. What matters is the inclusion of this tool in Europe's multi-annual budget. The real question is actually very simple: who pays? Who pays for the crisis and recovery? Who pays for the climate emergency? So, Minister, do we want your government, which we support, to say to workers and businesses, "You're going to pay"? Or will it be explained to them that the European Union must now be able to equip itself with its own resources, which it will seek not only in financial speculation, but also from the digital giants or the multinationals that flee tax, to take on the burden of the crisis and thus relieve the states and their taxpayers? That's the real question. For us the answer is clear, clear and unambiguous. It's not for people to pay for the crisis. In accordance with the government agreement, Belgium must therefore defend an agreement that is as ambitious as possible for the creation of a tax on financial transactions. It is a matter of justice, but it is also a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u51	Minister, the PS has just asked who will pay for the crisis. At European level, we are very ambitious. However, I read in the press that this government, with the PS in it, intends not to introduce a real rich tax, but a carbon tax. However, almost everyone says that rich tax isn't here today. The specialists say that, the press says that and even Vincent Van Quickenborne says that. So it must be true that there is no rich tax on the table. The figures also say that, because the securities tax that would be on the table today will bring little EUR 400 million, while the carbon tax will have to raise EUR 2.6 billion. This government would pay the strongest shoulders and would finally work towards fair taxation so that workers would not have to pay for this crisis. However, it seems that Easter and Christmas will fall faster in one day than fair taxation is being done. What you are doing is putting the Swedish Government's impact tax back into the microwave oven. It was already bad coffee, it gets warmed up even worse coffee. One also effectively leaves out the strongest shoulders, because the shares in name, which are mainly used by the biggest fortunes, will not be taxed. So I would also like to know what the Constitutional Court will think about leaving out the greatest fortunes. Those who will have to pay are the ordinary families, with a carbon tax that could go up to 281 euros. This affects the ordinary man who has to go to work with his car because there is no good public transport as an alternative. Hence my two questions to this government, which would show ambition in the area of fair taxation. Will you enter that carbon tax? How much will that be? Do you intend to appeal to the greatest fortunes this time or will fortunes like those of the Spoelberch and Colruyt, who are registered, once again emerge from the dance? Will you work on a fair tax, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the announcement of the policy letter of the climate conscience of this government, Mrs Khattabi, the passionate and passionate mating dance between the Liberals and the Greens in this government seems to be over. The images of the moved liberal reactions to the tears of Mr Calvo in the plenary of the European Parliament have been behind us for some time now. It seems that Minister Khattabi wants to introduce, with immediate effect, a 'carbon tarification', i.e. an unadulterated CO2 tax. There was a rush from the liberals, with Mr Lachaert and, of course, Mr Bouchez in the lead, who say that there will be no carbon tax that affects ordinary people and the middle class. Minister Khattabi's predecessor, Mrs Marghem, has already carried out research into such a CO2 tax. My colleague from the PVDA just quoted the figures from that 2018 research. That investigation, yes, Mr De Roover, was carried out with the knowledge and approval of the N-VA before Marrakesh. Colleagues, we all know what a CO2 tax will mean for people. In the coalition agreement this is expressed very abstractly as price signals, Minister, but in practice it is a tax on the use of fossil fuels. In concrete terms, this will increase the cost of gas and also fossil fuels at the pump. So it's about energy, about living, about heating our homes and also about mobility. Mr Minister, as the intimacy between Open Vld and Green Ecolo becomes slightly less erotic and physical, you can undoubtedly sit quietly in the middle of the bed, your familiar position between the sheets. In your reply, you will undoubtedly frame the CO2 tax in a global fiscal reform. What the hell is the population supposed to be like? What guarantees can you give our people today that Mrs Khattabi's carbon tax will not mean a new tax of almost EUR 300 per family per year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u53	Minister, I am relieved that you are here to answer my question and not Mrs Khattabi. Following Mrs Khattabi's announcement this week that a carbon tax will be introduced immediately, I thought for a moment that this government included not only seven Deputy Prime Ministers, but also two Ministers responsible for taxation. Of course, I'm not really relieved. I'm troubled. We warned about a purple-green tax tsunami during the election campaign, and look, the government is only a month away and two new taxes have already been announced. That can count as the first policy actions of this purple-green government. I remember the words that the Prime Minister wrote in De Tijd a month ago: 'there is now a particular need for fiscal rest'. That's what he said. However, I do not know whether the many hard-working citizens, savers and entrepreneurs feel at ease. I didn't see much peace with your coalition partners when it came to the carbon tax this week. There is one thing that worries me even more in the coalition agreement, namely the passage which states that this government will not introduce new taxes except twice a year. There will be new taxes on every budget discussion. So we can expect tax increases or new taxes at least twice a year. On the other hand, I do not see in the short term any tax shift that can benefit anyone who works, saves, and does. My question to you is therefore the following. When will you also give something back to the people who work, save and undertake after all the tax increases that have been announced and written down?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u54	Minister, according to the rules, you will have six minutes to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u55	Madam President, thank you for those six minutes. After all, I was getting the feeling that the current government's entire fiscal policy was being questioned here today. There are three important elements in three important questions that I have been asked. There was first an implicit question from Mr Mertens on the securities accounting tax. There was also a question about carbon pricing and also a question about the global fiscal reform that the current government is pursuing. Let's start with the first question about the securities account tax. It is true that we are asking for a fair contribution or solidarity contribution to securities accounts with an average value of more than EUR 1 million. We will use these resources to support existing needs in our healthcare system. The provisional proceeds put forward by the FPS Finance will be EUR 428 million, which is a significant amount. We have chosen this levy because it has a number of advantages. One advantage is that the levy is traceable and very efficient. It is traceable because it is very easy to find out who has such a securities account. We can check with our financial institutions. Secondly, we can deal with the levy in a very efficient way because it is very easy to check the value and the amount to be charged and to do the collection. So we have a stable, solid legal, solid instrument, with which we will now go to the Council of State. We will listen to the feedback from the Council of State. After that, we will continue to work on the dossier. Secondly, on carbon tarification, Mr Ravyts, I am pleased that you have indicated that I can choose where I am in the bed. I usually do that myself, unless my wife is next to me. [[Laughter]] (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u56	No, there are no other occasions. I hope she's not watching right now. [[Hilarity]] In any case, Mr Ravyts, there is no proposal on the table today. So I cannot really tell you about modalities, such as what, when, what yield. There's nothing on the table today. However, we cannot deny, of course, that we must discourage the use of fossil fuels. We are also trying to pursue the principle contained in the coalition agreement, namely the polluter pays. If we use a number of tax-driven elements and instruments, as stated in the coalition agreement, then two things are important to me. Firstly, if we do that, it must be done in a fair way, with social corrections. We must also ensure a level playing field for our companies and businesses. Secondly, if we do so, we must do so within a larger fiscal reform. We must indeed ensure that this reform supports climate policy in our country. At the same time, we must also take into account the reduction of the burden on labour, the simplification of the system, the removal of the farms and all the exceptions that exist, with the aim of sustainable public funding. I am well aware that we are very ambitious in this and that we need to start these preparations. That is a very big challenge, but it is necessary. I'm not the first one to get through this. The OECD has also put forward several elements. The High Council of Finance has also said on several occasions that we need to reform our fiscal system. I would very much like to put my shoulders on that. As I said, in addition to aid measures, this country will soon need re-launch measures. In addition to additional investment, the most important re-launching measure is the implementation of structural reforms, including in our taxation. That's what I like to put my shoulders on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u57	Madam President, Minister, you have the ambition of a turtle, both for the rich tax and for the ecological ambition. You have no ambition in that regard. You did not answer my question about the securities tax, namely why you do not appeal to the biggest fortunes in our country. As you know, they do not operate through securities accounts, but much more through registered shares. You speak of the biggest fortunes in our country, where there is inequality, which is 1% sitting on a 500 billion mountain. We will indeed await the opinion of the Constitutional Court that you do not address it and that the shares remain unaccounted for. In this respect, therefore, you have no ambition, but you do not have any ambition in terms of eco-taxality. You say that the polluter pays, but you mean that the polluter pays at the end of the chain, namely the consumer and not the producer. Those who are struggling to isolate their homes or need the car to get to work because there is no public transport, who will pay the bill under the guise of fair taxation. That has nothing to do with fair taxation. That is looking for the money again where it should not be sought, from ordinary people rather than dare to look up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u58	Madam President, Minister, Mr Vermeersch will undoubtedly be talking to you next week about the global fiscal reform, but I do not believe that it would only be a shift. I can feel you coming. A shift, such as instead of making gas more expensive, will lower the price for electricity. The Liberals have been talking for ten years about cleaning up the energy bill as a hidden tax bill. What's happened to this so far? You have been mayor and you are still mayor of the title; what happened at regional level? Nothing. Liberal mayors continue to rely on dividends through the towering grid charges, accounting for over a third of the energy bill. What Flemish Interest predicted when Vivaldi took office is already becoming a reality. The greenest grip, the greenest coalition agreement ever, guarantees a tax government, despite the liberal promise. First we have a new, more extensive version of the securities tax, then last week we have an increase in excise duties on tobacco and this week we have the debate on a carbon tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u59	Minister, I have heard very little about the major fiscal reform. I don't know when it's coming either. I read in the coalition agreement that there will be a tax increase twice a year. The first two have already been deployed. I suppose the third is on the way, too, maybe we'll learn that in the next few weeks. But I also have a bit of political experience: what is written in black and white usually makes it rather than a vague fiscal reform for which you still have to seek a compromise. I fear the worst in the coming weeks, months and years for our hard-working citizens, savers and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u60	Madam President, Minister, we talked earlier about the decisive progress on the arrival of a vaccine, which everyone obviously welcomes. One of the important consequences is that, for the first time in a very long time, it gives a horizon and perspective to all the economic victims of the crisis. The Horeca, the cultural world, the event world can finally consider, with a little more hope, a possible return to normal, of course, in several months and with great caution. But still! For us, the authorities, this means here and now that it is really worth it to hold on and continue to save what can be saved, to save all the affected sectors. Of course, we welcome the measures already taken in the wake of Kern + 10 on the moratorium on bankruptcies, bridge law, the widening of temporary unemployment, etc. But there is still a major issue that still seems obscure to me. This is the role of banks and creditors in general in this second wave. Today we are at a crucial moment. Many mortgage credit deferrals in the first wave are now coming to an end. Many traders, independents or simply some individuals have the rope on their necks for a commercial or private lease. Already in September, one in five Belgian companies risked bankruptcy. The moratorium in force until 31 January just gives us time to act. Minister, we know that many businesses and establishments in Horeca will not hold if the banks do not play the game again now, as they have done. So can you tell us where the negotiations with the banking sector are on this second wave? What prospects can you give to traders, self-employed people, and even individuals who are asphyxiated by unrepayable expenses, for lack of any income?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u61	Mr De Smet, thank you for this question. In March 2020, the federal government, the National Bank of Belgium and the financial sector concluded an agreement to maintain credit to individuals and businesses. The agreement was divided into two parts. On the one hand, a moratorium on loans to businesses and mortgages granted by financial institutions, and on the other hand, the activation by the federal government of a guarantee scheme totalling EUR 50 billion. In view of the second wave, the Kern decided three things: 1. Extend the guarantee scheme for SMEs until 30 June 2021. 2. With regard to the extension of the moratorium on business loans and mortgages, consultations are now being held with Febelfin. 3. As regards the extension of the moratorium on consumer credits, my colleague in charge of the Economy will consult the sector. An important element for extending the moratoriums is that the European Banking Authority - ABE or European banking authority - EBA has not yet taken a final decision on extending its relaxation of prudential rules for credit and carry-over payments under VOCID-19. The existing EBA guidelines apply until 30 September 2020 and allow the credits covered by the moratorium not to be considered problematic by the regulator, which is the National Bank of Belgium. The EBA decision is expected by the end of November. In the meantime, I will continue discussions with the financial sector. I hope to arrive at a solution as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I must describe as complete. Receive my encouragement for discussions with the financial sector. I really think banks have a very strong societal responsibility. It is for this reason that the State saved them in 2008. It is for this reason that today, this societal responsibility makes them actors in the solution, as well as all persons and all public or private institutions that may not have had to suffer from the crisis like others. It is a question of solidarity. They're not being asked to do philanthropy. They are asked to set an example, which may also be inspired by a number of public and private donors in the face of weakened tenants. They could also make a gesture during this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u63	Amazing, so were the images in yesterday's Panoreportage, poignant, a welfare state unworthy and incomprehensible. The Flemish Interest does not need the Panoreportage to ask the necessary questions. We already did that in connection with the publication of the Court of Auditors' report four months ago. The images and the testimonies we saw yesterday are rekindling our indignation. The Medical Accidents Fund was established in 2010 and continues to present so-called start-up errors after ten years. How long does an instance need to fix those starter mistakes? Not ten years, is it? Then we are no longer talking about start-up errors, but about structural errors. An audit was already carried out in 2018. What has happened to these recommendations over the past two years? What happened to the recommendations from the Court of Auditors' report last summer? Apparently, they're picking up dust somewhere. Now there is the reportage of Pano, with captivating images and with courageous testimonies. Matti, Jan, Ilse and Frank are just a few examples of the many cases that show that the Medical Accidents Fund is not achieving its objective. In future, dealing with medical accidents more efficiently than with legal proceedings was the reason for the fund's existence, wasn't it? In practice, however, it is clear that this is not the case at all. It is yet another federal institution that is eager to accumulate tax money, but has no added value whatsoever. What will you do about it? What's your action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u64	Minister, the Panoreportage was indeed captivating. That people's lives turn into one fingernip leaves no one untouched, regardless of whether there is a question of guilt or whether it is brute bad luck. The Medical Accidents Fund can be a very nice, accessible tool to help those victims. Surely it is absolutely scandalous that a Panoreportage is needed to make it clear that action must be taken. In the previous legislature, my colleague Valerie Van Peel called for an audit. I myself tabled a motion for a resolution in June in which I asked for a redrafting of the fund. We were very clear about this: something needs to be done, we need to work faster, we need better communication, we need victims to be able to count on it and they need to be paid out. What we saw yesterday and what your predecessor knew a long time ago is blatantly embarrassing. The fact that nothing has been done about it is actually even worse. People who are no longer able to work, people who have to give up their child or whose child has been interrupted by normal development or no longer has prospects, are told that it is not an abnormal damage. Why don't you explain that? Mr Minister, my question is simple. Our N-VA proposal is there. We wrote it and tested it. We want to move forward with it. We do not want political games on such a difficult dossier. Are you going to work with us? Will we work together and defend the importance of all these victims together?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u65	Madam President, I agree with colleagues that yesterday's report in Pano cannot leave us unmoved. What we have seen has indeed been poignant and also a confirmation of the very critical findings in the Court of Auditors' audit report. It may take many years before someone eventually gets advice and a look at some solution and during that period communication is not good either. That was absolutely not the intention when the fund was set up. According to the findings of the Court of Auditors, this is apparently due to only internal delays in the fund. Finally, there is only a small number of files, which ultimately leads to compensation. The ambition of the fund to reduce the number of judicial files does not seem to be realised either. So there are fundamental problems. There are undoubtedly also mitigating circumstances for the staff of the fund. After all, it has been started in difficult circumstances and it is a very complex task. The fund has worked to move forward, but I think we should now ask the fund to move up a gear, because the legislator's objectives have not been met. I'm not saying that without obligation, by the way. Mr Depoorter, I hear your constructive offer. I do not put the question of thinking alongside me together with everyone, across the boundaries of majority and opposition, but you will understand that I want to get a good analysis first and foremost. I have already been promised by the management committee and the administration that I will be given a thorough analysis before the end of November, which will also provide an answer to the audit of the Court of Auditors. By the end of November at the latest, I want to start a plan of action. So I want to get a better idea of what is going wrong and what we can do. I honestly think that there are problems of a practical nature, things that go wrong, but perhaps there are also deeper, fundamental problems with the assignment and the way in which we think it needs to be filled out. Then we come to the more conceptual discussion about what such a fund should actually do and what the role of the government is in this. I hope I can start a plan of action by the end of November at the latest. I would, of course, also like to enter into dialogue with the Chamber on this basis. Not only the public has a right to a better approach, but certainly the victims we have heard, and the many other victims as well as the care providers are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You will have another analysis carried out, when there has already been an audit and we have the Court of Auditors' report. What analysis is to be carried out? As a constructive opposition party, we have three suggestions for you. Firstly, appoint a crisis manager on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, which makes the service run efficiently. Second, reopen all files and re-evaluate them. Thirdly, ask for a contribution on all medical liability policies, in order to establish a system based on faultless liability. Minister, we shouldn't be sitting together anymore. We've already wasted enough time. There must be concrete action. Finally, do something concrete for Matti, Jan, Ilse, Frank and the many other victims of medical accidents. Renovate the fund thoroughly or cloth it up!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u67	Minister, you will understand that mitigating circumstances are a very faint message for the victims. They can't move forward, they need help now, they need resources now. Even with a new analysis, they can't move forward. There have been audits of the Court of Auditors and of consultancy agencies. Use those audits! At the end of November some people still have a long way to go. I'll go along with it, Minister. I'll keep following up on the file. I will continue to ask what is the state of play in the adjustments you will make. One comment I thought was right, that of the caregivers. There is no bigger nightmare than making a mistake, a mistake that one does not want, but which one may not be able to do. For our victims, I ask you to take on our outstretched hand and let us work on the dossier together; let us move forward together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u68	Madam President, Minister, yesterday I listened to your discourse, the defence of the policy plan. I have to tell you, after one hour and 49 minutes, I fell off my chair. In a small intermezzo you said: "Islamophobia and homophobia cannot be punished because these are basically press crimes. That needs to be handled by assists and they don't do anything. I will do everything in my power to ensure that Islamophobia is punished as a criminal offence in the future." That is incomprehensible to me. A phobia is an irrational fear, just as arachnophobia is fear of spiders and claustrophobia is fear of small spaces. Islamophobia is actually a fear of Islam or of Muslims. Islamophobia is not a form of racism, Minister. Muslims are not a race, but followers of a specific faith. Blasphemy is not punishable until further notice. Minister, will you prosecute people because they fear a religion that puts divine laws above secular laws? Even 60% of moderate Muslims are supporters of Sharia. So it's not just about extremists. Will you prosecute people for fearing a religion that calls for the killing of unbelievers and throwing gays off the roof, Minister? Not only the extremists, but even a third of moderate Muslims believe that people who leave Islam should be sentenced to death. Will you prosecute people because they fear a religion that does not recognise basic women's rights and even locks them in a textile prison? By labeling legitimate concerns and fears about Islam as an irrational form of hatred, the concept of Islamophobia is abused to turn the victims into perpetrators. Blasphemy is ridicule, which is aimed at a religion, not at people. Hate sowing encourages violence against individuals. That's something else. The strategy (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u69	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, you are facing not only a member of the government, but also a full-blooded liberal. I leave no doubt that freedom of expression is a foundation of our democracy for me. One may hurt, one may provoke, one may insult, yes, one may even blaspheme in our country, fortunately. However, freedom of expression is not unlimited. Some members of the Flemish Interest know a lot from slander and honour robbery. The anti-racism and anti-discrimination laws you passed with me in the Senate at the time. The border is very clear, colleagues. Inciting hatred and violence because a person belongs to a particular nationality, race, faith or sex is punishable. Islamophobia is not about insulting Islam, not about hurting, provoking or laughing, for that is not the problem at all. However, anyone who deliberately and publicly encourages hatred, violence and discrimination against people because of their beliefs crosses a line and is punishable. So, Mr Dedecker, I am not in favour of extending the penal code, but I am in favour of combating impunity. There is a problem in this area today. Printing press crimes motivated by racism are being prosecuted before the proper court, but other hate crimes go unpunished in our country because they have to come for assists. That's not like this anymore. That is why I call on all Members of this House to amend Article 150 of the Constitution so that we can punish all those who hate it. Whether the hate-songer is an Islamist, like Fouad Belkacem, or a right-wing extremist, like the man from Denmark we have seen today, or a left-wing extremist, whether it is someone who calls for hatred and violence against homosexuals, against Muslims or against Jews: Justice must prosecute each of them. That is what we owe to the victims of hate crimes, because we want to put an end to all the hate-songists in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u70	You don't have to change the law for that, Minister. I said Islamophobia in itself is not punishable. I'll read you a fine sentence from a book I have with me, written by Charb. Charb is the man who was murdered five years ago, the publisher of Charlie Hebdo. Tomorrow is the commemoration of the murder of five years ago in the Bataclan. Let me read out what that man wrote just before his death: "If you think Islam can best be defended by the concept of Islamophobia, you are wrong. If you believe that Muslims are best defended by defending Islam, if you believe in the Qur'an that it is forbidden to sign the prophet Muhammad, if you believe that Islam is offended when a mockery is made of a jihadist, if you believe that fascists attack Islam especially when they target an Arab, if you believe that each community should have its own anti-racist organization, then you are a hypocrite." I'm not saying that about you. I'm just saying that about the fact that terms are constantly being abused. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u71	Madam President, Minister, on a regular basis, we are many in this chamber to question you about the dramatic situation experienced by a large number of independents in the diversity of their activities. And I realize that the task that is yours must not be simple in order to be able to adequately respond to the plurality of this situation. You have recently published a small, much more didactic picture of situations, where it is possible, depending on the activity carried out, to benefit from the right bridge, simple, to take over or doubled. This is a good initiative. There are, however, still professionals - I am thinking in particular of certain liberal professions - who go through the meshes of the net. I am not trying here to mention the situation of notaries, lawyers, doctors, who I imagine have not necessarily, or to a lesser extent, been affected by the crisis. However, I still receive regular testimonies from psychologists, logopedes, occupational therapists. Recently, I was approached by a single parent psychologist. She lives alone with her children and has no customers. Indeed, they, either out of fear of the virus, no longer go to interviews, or because there was an accompaniment of a child, but the parents themselves are independent, have no resources and therefore no longer know how to bear the cost of weekly sessions, which thus become monthly, with dizzying falls of income, like the lady who questioned me and wondered how she would fill her oil tank next month, even though until before the crisis she was a professional who was not confronted with the difficulties. I would like to know what initiatives you intend to take to take into account also the experiences of these professionals, those liberal professions, which are also affected by a decrease in revenues without patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u72	Madam President, Minister, health is a priority, and it is obvious that no one is contesting it. However, on the ground, the economic situation of small independent traders is very serious. As soon as they were released from the first confinement, they were now forced to close their trade for a crucial, decisive period. Indeed, the end-of-year holiday period is the most important for most of these small traders, the bulk of their turnover being generally between 15 November and 20 December. Even if measures have been put in place to help them and one of these measures requires large areas to close certain shelves, competition is still present, whether in department stores themselves or via e-commerce. How can we explain, to our independents, the influx into large areas when they are not allowed to open their doors even to one customer at a time? How can they be told that some brands that often belong to large groups can remain open on the pretext that they sell perfumed soap? Merchants must continue to pay their expenses, their rent. Of course, measures have been planned. I am thinking in particular of the click and collect, but it is a cost. I am also thinking of creating a successful webshop, which requires investments. This will not allow them to survive in the long term. I recall that they had already invested a great deal to implement the security measures (freeze, plexiglas) in order to remain open. I repeat, the holiday season is crucial for all these small traders who will find themselves with quantities of stocks that they will not be able to dispose of. Minister, my questions are quite simple. What prospects can we offer them in the short term? Can we consider allowing them to open their business at least by appointment with one person at a time, or even two if they belong to the same family? Have you ever thought about the period of the balances that will also be fundamental to them? Are discussions on this matter already under way with the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than eight months since the government put in place measures to deal with the terrible crisis that has hit our citizens like our self-employed, our traders and our businesses. Last Friday, we announced 38 new measures to support those in this situation. There are exemptions from social contributions, end-of-year premium payments, prolongation of temporary unemployment and many other measures. We have also recently announced the introduction of a moratorium on bankruptcy until the end of January. As far as my department is concerned, I have, from the moment I take office, implemented the extension of a whole series of measures, in particular those aimed at allowing companies to benefit from carry-overs and spreads of contributions. The bridge right of support for recovery was extended until the end of the year. I have also introduced the double bridge right for businesses and self-employed who have had to close either by a decision of a public authority, or de facto because they are suppliers, or because their sector is linked to sectors that are closed. These will benefit from a double bridge right. However, Mr. Prévot, I share your observation. Some sectors, particularly the liberal professions, which do not have to close – and this is where their situation differs – see a decrease in their turnover. Clients are afraid, some are delaying their appointments. From the point of view of the right bridge, for the moment these liberal professions pass between the meshes of the net, I grant you. However, these people are severely affected by the decline in turnover. That is why Kern has asked me to think about a new system, which will be in place from 1 January, and which I am working on. The aim is to establish a new bridge across all sectors from 1 January onwards, including the liberal professions. To benefit from this, these professions will have to show a decrease in their turnover and show that they are experiencing an impact, even if they have not had to close. My will is to move forward very quickly on this issue because we must not leave anyone at the edge of the road. On the other hand, Mrs Reuter, you are asking me about the prospects. You understand that, personally, I hope that companies can restart as soon as possible. I totally share your analysis, but it's not up to me to tell you when the shops can reopen. We will evaluate this in consultation committees and in partnership with my colleagues. I hope that we can reopen these businesses as soon as possible, but it is too early today to give a date. As for the balances, of course, the debate was immediately initiated within my department. I requested an analysis from the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs. Opinions are divided. Everybody doesn't agree. We realize that it is not easy to decide whether there will be any balances in January or February. For the moment, given the situation, we are waiting and gathering opinions in order to form an opinion and decide as soon as we are able to say when the traders can reopen. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the answers that I am able to give you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers. I appreciate the lucid recognition that the field experiments I am reporting to you are indeed in line with reality and that there are many professionals who, today, are no longer able to hold on because they pass through the meshes of the net. I hear your willingness to have a general mechanism from 1 January next. That's a good thing. I would like to say that we have been able to see in recent months and weeks how quickly the government can sometimes work when it wants to take a new step. For some, it is now that the difficulty is being experienced. Therefore, pending this general status at the beginning of January, could there not be a rule allowing access to the simple bridge right, for example when there is a proven and compared drop in turnover compared to last year? This would at least make the bridge, the bridge in a way, towards this new status that you call of your wishes and for which I can only encourage you. This would at least bring relief right now, at a time when people need it most. I really invite you to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u75	Minister, I know that you are at the side of the independents and that you are doing everything you can to find solutions and find additional means. However, the solution is gravissimistic for these independent traders. For this reason, I urge you to urge the government to provide them with very short-term prospects. There should also be consultation with federated entities, particularly on the issue of rents. There's an emergency. Independent businesses are key players in our economy. These are the engines of life, because they make our communities live. That is why we really need to support them as much as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u76	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, I told the Prime Minister earlier that I was disappointed that he had refused to answer this question, at the same time as he answered two other foreign policy questions. I believe that this is, unfortunately, a new signal of disinterest or rather of the abandonment of the Armenians of Nagorny Karabakh and Armenians of Armenia in the face of the Azeri offensive, in the face of the jihadist militias employed by Turkey on the spot, in the face of new weapons, Turkish drones and Israeli drones. The balance of forces was too uneven and Armenia had to concede a ceasefire that looked like a capitulation. The death of thousands of soldiers, dozens of civilians to defend their ancestral lands, to defend the place where they have lived for hundreds of years has been of no use. Behind this victory of Azerbaijan, there is the victory of Turkey totally out of the law, totally out of control, which violates the NATO Charter, which violates the Charter of the United Nations, which uses terrorists - we must name them - recruited in Syria. There is also the Minsk Group which is completely set aside and there is an impassive Europe. Mr Minister, I ask your Government and the Prime Minister not to remain impassive, to finally condemn this violence, this offensive and not to accept that disorder, chaos and illegality are taking place at the gates of Europe, not to accept that one of our allies in NATO is using prohibited weapons and is on the side of Azerbaijan. I ask you to recognize the right to self-determination of the inhabitants of Nagorny Karabakh. I also call on you to return to the principles of the Minsk Group and finally to provide humanitarian assistance to the refugee, displaced and injured populations (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u77	Minister, I know you don't care about the situation. We were together with Mr Dallemagne in Nagorno-Karabakh. For six weeks there have been very heavy fighting with the use of unauthorized weapons such as cluster bombs and the deployment of mercenaries, jihadists and drones from NATO alliance Turkey. Mr Dallemagne already referred to it. Azerbaijan threw all of this into the battle, forcing Armenia to fight with unequal weapons. A lot of people have been killed and a lot of people have been fleeing. The humanitarian consequences are enormous. Last Monday there was suddenly an agreement, led by Russia, between Armenia and Azerbaijan. That agreement was reached independently of the Minsk process. It may be called a truce, but it's not a peace agreement. It is difficult to call forced peace a lasting peace. An agreement with one winner and one loser is difficult to call a good and lasting agreement. Armenia is clearly screwed here. From Russia, 2,000 troops are sent on the ground. Nagorno-Karabakh has had to lose a lot of ground. It is also very remarkable that Turkey suddenly takes up a role in this conflict, when no agreements were reached at all. The Armenian people are protesting very clearly against Parliament and also against the Armenian Prime Minister. It is quite clear that this conflict has not been frozen and that it will soon erupt again. What role will the international community play in achieving lasting peace and ultimately giving the perspective to Nagorno-Karabakh and the status to which they are entitled? What role will the EU play? What role will the Minsk process play? What do you think of the role of Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u78	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, Mr Dallemagne, we were together in Stepanakert a few years ago, and it was with great sadness that I followed the events that have taken place recently in Nagorno-Karabagh. But let me read out Mrs Wilmès' answer to you, given the current health situation. "Belgium welcomes the truce announced the day before yesterday by Armenia, Azerbaijan and Russia in Nagorno-Karabagh and the surrounding districts. Yesterday, our country in the UN Security Council called on all parties concerned to abide by the ceasefire. It is a first step towards a political solution to this decades-old conflict. In recent weeks, we have repeatedly expressed our concern in the Security Council about the humanitarian consequences of the war and the need for respect for international humanitarian law. Belgium is appalled at the violations of international humanitarian law. We regret the number of deaths and injuries among the civilian population. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross, critical infrastructure, such as schools, hospitals and power plants, would also have been destroyed. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have reported that cluster bombs have been deployed. No one can leave that untouched. Also mercenaries have been deployed in this war, including Syrian mercenaries by Azerbaijan, with the help of Turkey. That was officially confirmed yesterday by the UN Working Group on the use of mercenaries. We expressed our concern about this yesterday in the UN Security Council. The priority now is immediate unhindered humanitarian access and assistance. The right to return of refugees and internally displaced persons must be guaranteed. Through our funding of organisations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross and the UNHCR, we are contributing to this. It is of paramount importance that the ceasefire is sustainable. This will allow the resumption of political dialogue in the framework of the OSCE Minsk Group in order to resolve the conflict. On 27 September Belgium called on the belligerents to stop fighting and return to the negotiating table. We have consistently supported the efforts of the Minsk Group. Three ceasefires were negotiated - on 10, 17 and 23 October respectively - but they were not respected. The agreement reached on 9 November has finally brought an end to the hostilities. The ceasefire came after considerable Azeri military progress. The Armenian defence lines have given way. Faced with the prospect of further territorial losses, the Armenian government has resigned to accept an immediate ceasefire. It provides for four key elements: - cessation of hostilities and acceptance of a new contact line; - a phased evacuation of the Azeri districts around Nagorno-Karabakh, conquered by Armenia in 1994; - the deployment of a Russian interposition force of 1,960 troops to ensure compliance with the ceasefire; - the creation of two corridors under Russian control, one relaying Nagorny Karabakh to Armenia, and the other relaying Azerbaijan to the Azerbaijani enclave of Nakhitchevan. Although the agreement was negotiated by Russia, it is already certain that the Minsk Group will play an important role in the process. For Belgium, the ceasefire must therefore be the beginning of a diplomatic and political process aimed at lasting peace in the Eastern Caucasus region and reconciliation between the Armenian and Azerbaijani populations." That, Madam President, is Minister Wilmès' answer to the questions on Nagorny Karabakh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u79	Minister, I was in Nagorny Karabakh a week ago. I saw the Azeri offensive. I saw the use of drones. I saw the use of cluster munitions. I saw the bloodbath. I saw that the Armenians, let go by everyone - let go by everyone, you have to repeat - were alone in the face of this barbarity. There's no other word when you use terrorists from Syria. They did indeed have to surrender. You are delighted with this cease-fire. I am indeed looking forward to the end of the bloodbath. But we cannot accept this use of force. We cannot accept that the law of the strongest prevails in a country that was the only democracy in that region. One cannot accept that an ally within NATO uses terrorists, uses prohibited weapons to wage war in a third country. Nor can we accept this corridor that they create between the Nakhichevan and Azerbaijan, which you welcome, and which further weakens Armenia, which removes the border it had with Iran, its only ally in the region, and which creates a corridor through which Erdogan can build his great neo-Tottoman dream with all the Turkish-speaking republics on that side. Most of all, he'll get his hands on the pipeline from the Caspian Sea. I think we must no longer accept this kind of violence at our doorstep. I have not heard you either about the humanitarian aid that Armenia has been demanding for weeks for its wounded, for its refugees. Nor can we leave Russia alone. You say that the Minsk Group will be asked. The Minsk Group is in a state of outdated coma. He wasn't asked. It is time that there were also European observers and OSCE observers there, so that Armenia, its democracy, its territory, where they have always lived, could finally be (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The recognition of what has happened there and the dismay of Belgium are entirely justified. Mr Dallemagne has already referred to the fact that illicit weapons have been used in international law in this conflict, which we cannot accept. It is not acceptable for the law of the jungle to govern that area and for the strongest to win. However, that is the case today. The four conditions of the peace agreement, which you mentioned, are clearly not sufficient for Armenia. There will be no lasting peace agreement and no freezing of the conflict. So we and the international community cannot accept that either. There are clearly a number of winners, namely Russia, who get hold on the ground and Azerbaijan, which is clearly gaining more territory with the support of the provocative Turkey. There are clearly two losers. The international community is also a loser. She looked at it and did nothing. Recognition and dismay are good. However, action is also needed. This action is needed within the framework of the international community. The Minsk process with the United States, France and the European Union should better take up its role in order to promote the establishment of a lasting peace agreement in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u81	Madam President, Madam Secretary, Corona is pushing a lot of people into trouble. During the first corona wave, a lot more people asked for food aid. The media reported this morning that the number of people using food banks increased by 15 to 20 % during the first lockdown. Since the beginning of the second wave, that number of people has increased even more. Food stores are open during the lockdown, but for many people the harsh reality is that they just don't have the money to buy food today. So they can only go to the food bank for basic products, such as milk, vegetables and pasta. That target group is getting bigger and bigger. The food banks report that more and more new arms are coming along. These include young people, self-employed people, single parents and even working people. Not all these people, and certainly not all these new people, find their way to the OCMW's, which nevertheless have a very important role to play. If it is not through the living wage, then there is also other support possible. Unfortunately, not all OCMWs use all these support measures. Madam Secretary, I have two questions for you. Firstly, how will you lower the threshold towards the OCMWs? How can we ensure that the people who come to the food bank also receive structural assistance? Secondly, how will you encourage OMCWs to focus on all forms of aid, including that of supplementary aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u82	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, the right to food is a basic human right. Everyone should be able to feed themselves with dignity. Unfortunately, many people have not had the means to achieve this for years. Between 2014 and 2019, the number of people using food aid increased by 83%. The corona crisis has made the situation of many people worse. A new group of people had to resort to food aid. According to associations active in the field, the increase for this year should be estimated at 15% to 20%. The corona crisis has caused a social crisis in our country. For the government, solidarity and the provision of solutions are the main priorities. A grant of EUR 6 million was therefore made available to the OMCWs and EUR 1 million to the food banks to respond to this growing demand. As you rightly say, more and more other population groups are in a precarious situation, such as the self-employed and workers in the cultural sector. It is absolutely necessary for people who need help to find their way to the OCMW so that they can receive the additional support. To achieve this, we have launched several communication campaigns. The OCMWs have also already received a list of names of people with whom they can contact themselves via the KSZ, the RVA and the RSVZ. I repeat, money has been released by the government, and it is imperative that those who are in need today have access to CPAs. They can help them with additional aid, as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You know, in the sp.a you always have an ally to tackle poverty. Only together can we tackle this problem. You know that my party has strongly advocated the use of additional financial support by the OMCWs through the introduction of the so-called REMI system, the reference budget for a decent income. This system calculates how much money someone needs to live on, and in those situations where people have too little to make a decent living, the OCMWs will have to match. For our party, it is really important that this is done during this legislature. Tomorrow you will come to Parliament with your policy statement. I look forward to discussing with you tomorrow how we can roll out this system in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u84	Madam President, Minister, the government has communicated on the extension of Vigilant Guardian and the anti-terrorist security mission of our military on critical points until December 2. The Minister of Defence, to whom I could also have addressed my question today, indicated that she was considering a phase-out of our military from these security missions. His Chief of Staff also indicated, through the press, that these missions were to be returned to other departments. Yet the situation and the context have changed in Europe: Professor Paty in France, other attacks in Nice killing three, others in Vienna, four dead and twenty-two wounded. In Belgium we are not spared this situation. As you know, on 5 October, a man was arrested in Brussels in possession of white weapons and firearms. He wanted to go after a police station. On 30 October, a man was arrested on the train, in possession of a machete. His file is classified as a terrorist. On 30 October, on social networks, our services intercept incentives for attacks on Brussels. On 5 November, an attack was foiled in Eupen. He was targeting our police officers. It would therefore seem, but I would ask you to confirm, that the DAB, the security corps, is today unable to replace our military in their security operation. This prompts me to share with you what we would like and to ask you if it would be possible to do so. Before we reduce the wing of the security exercise of our military, could we consider an assessment of the situation, in order to ensure that this phase is carried out without reducing the security of the Belgians in the face of terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u85	Madam Chair, Mr. Ducrame, as you know, the threat to our country is determined by the CAMO using a number of indicators such as the number of ongoing threat files, their severity and the risk that they will materialize. The national and international context is also well taken into account. After the recent attacks in France and Austria and the timely intervention in Eupen, the threat has always been reassessed. For the time being, it is maintained at Level 2. OCAM provided the necessary explanations to the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security at its meeting on Wednesday, 4 November. Moreover, the deputy prime minister of your party was represented. The level of threat to the police is also assessed at Level 2. The Crisis Centre may, however, take additional measures in consultation with it. For the sake of security for our police officers, a concern that you also care about, I will not reveal any further details. As far as Defence is concerned, threat assessment is also taken into account when deploying soldiers on the street. As you know, the subsequent deployment is decided on a monthly basis in agreement with the Minister of Defence and within the National Security Council. In accordance with the coalition agreement, it is planned to discuss further a possible reduction or phasing-out at a forthcoming meeting of the National Security Council. All of this is meant to make you understand that there is certainly no question of a negligible threat or threat. In recent years, however, we have evolved towards a much stronger safety culture. We must therefore continue to focus on this strengthening. As Minister, I am committed to further developing this culture of security, in collaboration with the judiciary and the police. In this regard, I would like to congratulate them once again on their decisive approach in the Eupen dossier, an approach that has prevented an attack. In any case, I will continue to pursue this debate with you this Monday in the Committee on the Interior. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u86	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would naturally like to join in the congratulations you have extended to our services, which are doing an extraordinary job. However, there are several threats. There is, of course, VOCID, but there is also the terrorist threat. This Parliament still resonates with minutes of silence that we have had to observe in recent years when the victims fell under the bullets of terrorists in Europe and Belgium. Together, we must remain vigilant. Minister, for the Reform Movement, there is no question of considering a reduction of the wing in terms of controls, at the level of the security points, now operated by our military without a complete evaluation of the system. Indeed, the security corps, the DAB, is not in a position to replace the military in the field to provide security. The issue could be discussed in the context of the next Security Council, but, as far as the Reform Movement was concerned, progress could not be made without a prior global assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u87	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u88	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 November 2020, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 November 2020, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u89	I received an amendment 17 to the bill (MM. Steven Matheï, Dieter Vanbesien, Servais Verherstraeten and Joris Vandenbroucke and Ms Laurence Zanchetta) amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to making the registration of foreign notarial acts compulsory, Nos. 1357/1 to 10. Amendments 15 and 16 were withdrawn. I have received an amendment 17 to the legislative proposal (Mr Steven Matheï, Mr Dieter Vanbesien, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Joris Vandenbroucke and Mrs Laurence Zanchetta) amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to the compulsory registration of foreign notarial acts, Nos 1357/1 to 10. Amendments 15 and 16 were withdrawn. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 November 2020, I propose that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 November 2020, I propose that the amendment be sent to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u90	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Christian Leysen, Kathleen Verhelst, Steven Matheï.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u92	Madam President, with your approval, I would like to refer to the written report, which can read what the legislative proposal, which has a long history, has led to discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the initial phase of both the first wave and the second wave of the corona crisis, the federal and regional governments took several measures to strengthen the liquidity and cash position of our companies. I am thinking, for example, of postponing the payment of taxes and social security contributions, payments to companies and temporarily unemployed workers and self-employed persons, regional contributions such as compensation and nuisance premiums. These measures are absolutely necessary and we support them. In the next phase, that of recovery, i.e. in the restart phase after the second wave, solvency needs to be strengthened and the degree of debt must be worked out, so the balance sheet should be put clean as it were. After the recovery of the greenhouse follows the restoration of the balance sheet. It is important to support companies and self-employed people with solvency problems today. These are companies whose financial health and balance were affected by the corona crisis. Together, we have already introduced a first fiscal aid measure in this sense, the so-called carryback scheme, which allows companies and self-employed persons to offset their losses of 2020 compared to the profits of 2019. That measure will ensure that the tax debt for those companies will be mitigated by 2019. The measure now before us allows our companies to create a reconstruction reserve in the coming years. Companies suffering losses as a result of the corona crisis can set up a reserve for three years, which will be exempt from income tax. Why does the Flemish Interest support the proposal? The party does so because weakened companies are an easy prey for potentially unwanted purchasers. The strengthening of solvency is part of the framework to anchor companies locally. The measure relating to the reconstruction reserve is important to work on the recovery of our businesses even after the corona crisis. Madam President, that said, I would ask you to allow me to dwell on trade and walk around this legislative proposal in committee and in Parliament. In a first attempt, the text relating to the reconstruction reserve was linked to the draft law on carry back. Together with other parties, the Flemish Interest requested that the Council of State provide advice on such an important measure. At the beginning of July 2020, Mr Leysen attempted to link the reconstruction reserve with other fiscal measures developed in a supercore bill. Following a threat by the socialists, among others, to bring down the whole bill, the amendment was finally withdrawn. In mid-July 2020, in a third attempt, the text on the reconstruction reserve was presented as a separate legislative proposal to the Finance Commission. Third time good time, thanks to the support of the Flemish Interest, the measure on the reconstruction reserve was approved. It must be said that then Minister of Finance De Croo correctly responded to that. At that time, he admitted athleticly, I quote his words from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which "assessed the Flemish interest's proposals for legislation on their merits. During that period, when the present government had not yet been mentioned, Flemish interest was a determining factor in the vote in Parliament. I repeat what I said in committee at the time: our door is always open to the Minister and Members; we are always prepared to cooperate and work on solutions, if they are in the interests of Flanders, the Flemings and our Flemish employers and employees. This is certainly the case with the reconstruction reserve measure. Mr Leysen was even more explicit in De Standaard. I would like to quote from De Standaard of July 2020: 'It is the content that counts'. Thus Mr Leysen responds to the necessary support from the Flemish Interest. "The relance will have to come from investment by companies. Boosting consumption is not the right way to go. In words, the sp.a is always there to support SMEs and the self-employed, but in practice we do not see much of it. However, this measure is tailored to small businesses." Thus the quote ends from The Standard. Before the start of the new government, the Flemish Interest in Parliament often acted as a game distributor between the left-wing block of socialists, greens and PTB-PVDA, on the one hand, and the former Swedish parties, on the other. With the support of Vlaams Belang, a fund was created for additional care staff. We also supported and supported the important tax exemption for companies in connection with the reconstruction reserve as a corona recovery measure. Depending on the subject but above all on its content, Flemish Interest determines its voting behaviour. Deng Xiaoping said it: "It doesn't matter what color the cat has, as long as she catches mice." Whether a bill comes from a dark red party or a light blue party, if there is a good proposal on the table, it will receive our support. I do not need to draw your attention to how much people like to put the Flemish interest in places, and that also applies to our socio-economic programme. Commentators and political opponents are all too happy to put away the Flemish Interest as a left-wing party, some even as a socialist party. However, let me be very clear, we are not socialists, we are not left, we are not right, we are primarily nationalists. We stand up for our own people first, we stand up for our people first. It is precisely in accordance with that principle, the protection of our people and our businesses, that we determine our voting behaviour in Parliament. We believe that the recovery policy should pay full attention to protecting the economic fabric in this country, especially the sectors specifically affected and the many small and medium-sized enterprises that have made this country great. In this sense, we support the measure relating to the reconstruction reserve in Parliament. Although I do not see the Minister here at the moment, I have another specific question, which I would like to see answered today. Even if the tax exemption for the reconstruction reserve, which is approved here, will in the long term generate a payback effect, the measure will have some impact on the budget in 2021. Indeed, we do not estimate it as a budget-neutral measure for 2021. On 30 October, the draft budget for 2021 was submitted to the European Commission, but we do not see any direct impact of that measure on the reconstruction reserve. How do you explain that, Minister? Could you explain why, at first glance, the impact of the reconstruction reserve was not included in the draft budget sent to Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed not the first time we have discussed this dossier. After all, it has already made a bumpy course, and Mr Vermeersch has just explained it. As part of the co-vid measures, our group gave confidence to a minority government in March 2020. When we did that, we always distinguished between remedial measures and re-launch measures. Restoration measures are urgent measures that need to be taken immediately, which have a very short-term impact and are temporary and often one-off. Relance measures come later, are medium- or long-term measures and may be recurrent or structural. Our trust in the minority government served to support the recovery measures, because that was urgent and necessary. We have referred the re-launch measures to a next government with a parliamentary majority. Let us translate that into the companies. In most cases, we have estimated that recovery measures focus on liquidity and that solvency measures are more of a relance measure in the slightly longer term. We have always supported all the proposals in the past few months aimed at the liquidity of companies. The proposal before us concerns solvency. It is an excellent idea, because it is only starting in 2022, so it is a slightly longer period, and that is why we have always said in recent months and in committee that we did not want to support it until now as long as there was a minority government in power. We have referred it to a next government with a parliamentary majority, which can fit the proposal into a larger revival plan. That's where we are today. Now is also the time to look further at the content, because it is important. We expect a possible wave of bankruptcies in the coming months. Those bankruptcies are still to come. Solvency is an important parameter for a company to be viable and to escape bankruptcy. This measure responds to the call for help from the business community to counter this wave of bankruptcies. The way the bill has been made also gives confidence that the measures will be taken for those companies that are in the target audience. It concerns companies which have lost this financial year because of the corona crisis. We also know that in the long term the money will come back into circulation and will still be taxed. In the longer term, over a year, this is a budget-neutral exercise. In addition, there are a number of interesting conditions and precedents attached to this bill. Some of them we have already heard of the measures we have taken on liquidity, especially the companies that use them are not allowed to pay dividends. They can't buy their own shares. They shouldn't reduce their capital either. Those conditions are repeated here. An additional condition has been imposed: the level of employment must be maintained by this company. It is not possible to use these measures to dismiss half the workers. This is an interesting experiment. We will see how this will evolve and how our companies deal with it. This also inspires future action and permanent legislation. We look forward with great interest to the way in which the conditions will be met, as well as to their impact on businesses and the labour market. Colleagues, for these reasons we will support this re-launching measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole health crisis has a huge impact, not only on health and daily life, but certainly also on the economy. Over the last few months, we in the hemisphere have adopted many measures in the so-called corona I, II and III laws. These measures were useful for citizens, for non-profit institutions, for employees, but also for businesses. As far as the latter is concerned, there has already been a real zoom in on the issue of liquidity, including the carryback scheme, the early loss deduction whereby this year's losses can be offset against last year's profits. There was also, among other things, the exemption from the transfer of the holding tax, but the solvency measures were still open. That was contained in this bill, which has indeed come a long way. It is very important that we also work on the solvency of companies. This is done in this proposal by holding future profits in companies and companies in a tax-friendly way, by securing them and leaving them untaxed. As a result, many benefits occur. In this way, companies will naturally be strengthened, confidence in companies and companies will increase and investment will be possible. This is very important if the economy is to be attracted and the corresponding employment guaranteed. The whole regulation of the reconstruction reserve contained in this proposal is not a blank cheque. It is subject to a number of important conditions. There must be no link to the tax havens, something we already know from the corona I, II and III laws. There is also, for the first time, an employment condition, linking the positive effects of this scheme with the maintenance of employment, in itself, an important aspect in managing the economic crisis. In addition, there is also an inviolability condition, which means that if the profits are taken out of the company, they will still be taxed. Finally, a maximum amount was also set and thus does not go into the infinity. These are important conditions, but it is all the more important that this scheme can have a high degree of confidence in companies and by companies with the associated economic and employment effects. That is how the economy can be strengthened, and that is why our group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u96	Madam President, thank you. This is a draft or a proposal, since it has known both denominations, which has been a long way to go, as some colleagues have said. I think it is politically interesting to go back a little bit on this long history because there are a lot of lessons to learn from it. Episode 1. We are in June 2020 and the then Minister of Finance, Mr. De Croo, inserts this provision in its draft law on tax provisions in order to promote the liquidity and solvency of enterprises. This replenishment reserve can be found in Chapter IV of this bill. A vote is taking place in committee and the bill as a whole is accepted except for this chapter IV, that is, this replenishment reserve that we are debating today. At the time, who voted against it? All the left-wing parties and the Vlaams Belang, who say in fact, as we understand it here, that it is only because the opinion of the Council of State has not been received that it does not vote in favour of this text. Episode 2. Mr Leysen introduced this provision, which had therefore been rejected. It introduces it in the form of an amendment within the framework of the Corona 3 project. Finally, after dealings with different parties, he withdrew the amendment. Episode 3. The provision was then reintroduced in the form of a bill signed by Mr Leysen and adopted in committee. Is that right, Mr. Leysen? Who's voting against it? The Socialists, the Greens and the PTB. All the others vote in favour, including the Vlaams Belang who like to support Mr Leysen's employer proposals. In fact, Mr Leysen likes to emphasise and recalls all the time that the Vlaams Belang had voted for the White Blouse Fund of the PTB but he forgets every time to remind that the Vlaams Belang supports all the pro-management measures that he, his party or his political family lay down to give gifts to multinationals, to prevent the richest from being taxed, to attack the unions, to block wages through wage moderation. Whenever such employer measures or restrictions on trade union freedoms are proposed by the Liberals, the Vlaams Belang still supports them. The love story is rather between Mr. Leysen and the Vlaams Belang. In fact, we heard a representative of Vlaams Belang say, "We're not on the left." We knew it. He really likes employers, but it's still the boss! Episode 4: The proposal comes here in plenary. But Mr.Laaouej is fliberous – and he is supported – and tabled amendments that are sent to the Council of State. Episode 5: Today! The Council of State has delivered its opinion and the proposal is being discussed and voted on today. I forgot episode 4bis, between episode 4 and episode 5: a government is constituted! It is led by the father of the measure, Mr. De Croo, and the government agreement says black and white that the government is going to pass this measure. As a result, four of the five parties that voted against the measure in committee will normally vote in its favour today: the two parties that make up the Ecolo-Groen Group, the Flemish Socialists and the Francophone Socialists normally will vote in favour. That's what we heard from Mr. Van Besien. The PS will vote "for". Mr Laaouej did not take the floor, but I assume that he will move from being a libustier to being a press-button today in support of this proposal, which he has fought so hard and supported with so much vigour and conviction. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of some of the criticisms that have been made by the Members who voted against the proposal in committee and who will now normally vote 'in favour'. Mr Joris Vandenbroucke: "My fraction is fundamentally opposed to this measure"... "The intervener does not believe", says the report "unlike Mr Leysen, that the proposed measure will be reimbursed by means of its return effects, of which the intervener has also not seen any calculations."... "The introduction of a constitution reserve mechanism will have a serious impact on public finances in the short and long term, since it is impossible to predict when these reserves will be taxed."... It is concerned that "the complex legislation provided for in the current bill opens the door to tax optimisation operations, with the result that some of these support measures will benefit companies that do not really need this support". According to Mr Laaouej: "It is a tax-free reserve for businesses that realize profits, while it seems more sensible and understandable to develop aid measures for companies that suffer from the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis". All very good arguments! On the part of the Ecolo-Groen Group, I quote Mr Gilkinet: "The measure will benefit companies with equity. Their financial strength will be further strengthened by a tax advantage. Companies which are in difficulty and have virtually no own funds will not be able to benefit from this measure." Finally, he pointed out that the measure was very similar to the deduction of notional interest, both in terms of budgetary cost and in terms of its questionable effectiveness in terms of maintaining employment. He added that "the measure will benefit companies with equity. Their financial strength will be strengthened by a tax advantage." All these very relevant criticisms have been made by colleagues, but, if I understand correctly, today they are going to vote in favour. It would be interesting to know the reason for this reversal. I now turn to the PTB's criticism of this measure. These are largely in line with what has been said. So I could be shorter. First of all, let us go back to the substance of the measure. What is it? What does this text contain? What is this replenishment reserve? No one said it. I didn't hear him in the speeches once, and I didn't read him in the papers. This is in fact a simple principle: companies that lose in 2020 due to the coronavirus crisis will be able to deduct these losses in the next three years. You'll tell me that makes sense. They've lost because of the coronavirus. They can get them back. That makes sense! Except that the Tax Code already provides for it! This already exists in IRC 92. This is called "deduction from previous losses". It's been planned for years. Belgium is also very flexible in this respect. We can deduce as much and as long as we want. The limits set at the time were removed. Therefore, there is a deduction of losses that already exists. What will we eventually do with this measure? We'll deduct the same losses twice. Companies will be able to deduct the same losses twice. This is crazy! And it is interesting to know how they will be able to do it. They will be able to infer these losses in the future but, thanks to the carrier back system that was also included in Mr. From Croo, they can also deduct them in the past, in 2019. I'll explain it to you by taking an example. A company that makes 20 million euros of losses in 2020 will be able to deduct 10 million euros thanks to the carrier back system on profit 2019. It will also be able to deduct 10 million losses out of 2021 or prior years. That's already 20 million. And then, she'll still be able to deduct $20 million from the replenishment reserve. As a result, it has lost 20 million and can deduct 40 million. This is about the past and the future. It's amazing! Yes, Mr. De Croo had sold the measure by presenting it in this way, it would have made a lot of people tick. But he sold it by talking about a replenishment reserve with the liability of a reserve that is blocked, etc. The measure was also sold by advancing the equity argument, an argument that still works. This has already been done with notional interests by saying that they were intended to strengthen own funds. Not at all! It is well known that it was to replace the coordination centres, a gift to multinationals condemned by Europe. This was sold on the basis of the strengthening of own funds. As this kind of argument works well politically, it has been decided to highlight the same political marketing for the measure that is currently under consideration. As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, there is still a question of EUR 690 million over three years, which is not nothing. And let's hope this is the real cost. Indeed, if we refer to notional interests, we will remember that Mr Reynders, who was then Minister of Finance, had estimated the cost at 500 million euros, whereas the real cost was 6 billion a year, 12 times more than the amount that had been advanced. I hope, in this case, we won't reach 12 x 690 million. It is also incredible to see that it is the big companies that are advantaged because they will have the greatest margin to deduct. I mentioned Mr Gilkinet who explained it very well. The minister had drawn my attention to the fact that the tax advantage had been limited to €20 million. That's right. A limit has indeed been set. But this means that a large multinational, for example, will be able to benefit from this tax advantage of up to EUR 20 million, whereas an SME will be able to benefit, for example, only EUR 20. In any event, if the tax benefit has actually been limited to EUR 20 million, I do not think that many SMEs will benefit from this measure of EUR 20 million. This brings me to the risk of tax engineering, which I, like several colleagues, have mentioned in the debates that we have had in committee. Indeed, it is well known that multinationals can play on transfer prices and transfer a profit or loss from one subsidiary to another. They will therefore be able to make their tax engineers work to take advantage of this measure and see how to get the most out of it. Colleagues tell us that conditions have been laid down. Mr. De Croo was very proud to have put conditions on employment, on tax havens. That's very good! We could only applaud – unless we scratch a little bit in the details. The condition of tax havens: the company cannot have a subsidiary in tax havens to benefit from this measure. First, what tax havens? The official Belgian list of tax havens, according to which the amounts paid to tax havens must be declared. But we know very well that a large number of tax havens are not on this list, including and in particular, among the most formidable... You may have read in the press today that the two favourite tax havens of large French companies (the CAC 40 companies) are Belgium and the Netherlands. Belgium, of course, cannot be included in the list of tax havens. But European countries such as the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Malta could be. Like the Delaware, which puts a new president at the head of the United States. This state is one of the worst tax havens in the world. In short, the list of tax havens is already very problematic. But the problem doesn't stop there! Indeed, it is only if the company that benefits from the tax advantage has subsidiaries in these tax havens that it is excluded from the benefit. However, it is well known that not all companies in a multinational group are in tax havens. There are always a few companies dedicated to having subsidiaries in tax havens. If the group as a whole has subsidiaries in tax havens, but not the company that benefits from the deduction, there is no problem. Similarly, if the parent company of the company with the tax advantage is in a tax haven, there is no problem, it will be able to benefit from the tax advantage. This condition, including Mr. De Croo made a big noise, makes me laugh a little! When you scratch a little, there's not much serious in the fight against tax havens. The same applies to the condition of employment. Mr Vanbesien, you say that the level of employment must be maintained in order to benefit from the advantage. That's not true! If you read the text properly, you will see that if the job is reduced, the benefit is reduced proportionally to the job removed. It is said that a large company, which implements a large lay-off plan, which terminates 10% of its staff, will not be entitled to the benefit. If she dismisses 10 per cent of 5,000 people, that's 500 people who are being kicked out. We're thinking she's not going to get that tax gift anyway! Of course I do! But it can have only 90% of the tax benefit, since it has removed only 10% of its staff. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that we are not very enthusiastic about this proposal. We hoped to be supported in our refusal by our colleagues in the left-wing parties, but as far as I understand, they have changed their minds since their vote in committee. However, we are not immune to surprise. If Mr Laaouej, Mr Vandenbroucke, not Mr Gilkinet necessarily, since he is no longer here, but his colleagues at Ecolo Groen, wanted to change their position, we would be very happy to do so, but I do not think that will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the very one-sided reading of Flemish Interest and the PVDA of the long history of this bill. In it, both parties found each other. Unfortunately, rewriting history is not limited to the anecdotics of legislative proposals, but good. I will not, of course, hide the fact that our group was not enthusiastic about this proposal at illotempore. Of course, we had a very good reason for that. There is a further reason why we think it is a good proposal now, but okay. The first important reason was that this bill was tabled at the time as part of a package of urgent fiscal measures. Colleagues have already explained the urgent fiscal measures which were aimed at the liquidity of companies which were in trouble at the time, either in the first wave or in the aftermath of that first wave. We did not think it wise to adopt, within the framework of such a package of urgent fiscal measures with a focus on the very short term, a legislative proposal on relance, on the long-term sustainable recovery of the economic fabric. This bill has an impact on the longer term. That is the main reason for approving it. I invite you, Mr Van Hees, to quote the report on that point too. The first reason is gone. In the meantime, we have a fully-fledged government whose ambition is to pursue a coherent re-launch policy. As far as we are concerned, such a measure can certainly fit in with that. The context today is also different from that of six months or more ago because we saw a second corona wave coming at us with full force. This second wave also threatens to cause enormous economic damage to companies that have barely been able to catch their breath. After the first lockdown they are now hit in full amidships. It seems to us to be a good measure to ensure that, when they have to take a second or even a third breath, they are given the opportunity to pump extra oxygen into their business. We want to give them the opportunity to increase own funds if this is absolutely necessary to strengthen solvency. Solvency is necessary to be able to invest. Companies that cannot invest have no chance of continuing sustainably. Colleagues of the PTB, please remain blind to that second economic wave. Feel free to stand up for the people who work. But these two cannot be reconciled, Mr Van Hees. What is your proposal to ensure that that second wave will not have an even greater and more disastrous impact than the first wave? Do you then deny that the solvency of companies that are twice full is likely to come under effective pressure? There's a fully-fledged government working on a relance plan. Besides, we're in the middle of a second corona wave. For this reason, the sp.a. Group considers the proposal to be justified. Several colleagues have also referred to a number of important conditions attached to the tax favor regime. We had already registered these conditions in the draft laws on urgent tax provisions. A condition stated that no lasting links can be maintained with tax havens. Other terms and conditions were neither buy-in of own shares nor pay-out of dividends. This bill also includes employment conditions. This should sound like music in the ears of the PTB. I have only been here for a year and a half, but I am well aware that one of the fundamental criticisms made by the left, including my party, about fiscal favors for companies was that they were not linked to employment conditions. That is what we are trying to do. We want to keep people working. That condition is now in this bill. In view of the changed context and the important conditions attached to this measure, we believe that it is absolutely justifiable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u98	Madam President, my speech will be brief and will focus solely on the substance. I leave it up to all the left-wing parties to break down, one by pointing ironically at the changes of opinion of the other, and the other by trying circumvolutions to try to justify that it is no longer quite the same thing and that all of a sudden we can support what we had fought. I think that the no-brilist-positioning debate of either party on the left does not matter to the potential beneficiaries of this provision, in this case the companies that are facing difficulties, and which it is important to support at this time. On the CDH side, we are in favour of this measure, because it is a measure to support the solvency of companies, and they need it very much. The following point remains true: the first wave has rather generated questions about the profitability of companies, then came a phase of questioning about the availability of liquidity, and today we are really in a phase of concern about the solvency of companies. This is a more acute and problematic development. What makes us happy is that the text has been able to evolve. Tagging measures are now well present, with important and justified conditions in terms of links with tax havens, the policy of distribution of dividends or the maintenance of employment. The continuing crisis has a huge impact. Past and current health restrictions cause companies to suffer with a result of a capital deficit, which has a direct impact on their situation, that of their workers and that of households. We must therefore be able to find remedies, otherwise it will lead us to a long period of less investment and, I fear, lost jobs. But the new majority must not stop at this text and consider that the measure is sufficient for the recapitalisation of our companies. It is assumed that this is only a first step in the stimulus plan to support our economy that we expect. In fact, I imagine that the Secretary of State for Recovery, the first to bear this title in a Belgian government, must deal with the details of this plan. It might indeed be appropriate to relaunch the Secretary of State for Recovery, since for the moment nothing has yet been seen. In any case, I imagine that Minister Khattabi, who is the government's representative and listens to me with great attention, will be able to relay to her colleagues the few additional points that we propose to put forward in order to complete the scheme. Indeed, in our view, the cursor must really focus on the notion of investment. Other tax mechanisms must now be available to reinject capital into businesses and thus support productive investment. I am thinking, for example, of a measure encouraging shareholders to recapitalise companies, especially those in difficulty and that recapitalisation would be likely to save. A subscription to new shares eligible for a preferential dividend and a tax advantage to ISOC and/or the Movable Discount, subject of course to certain conditions in terms of real investment, must also constitute an additional measure in the business support arsenal. Moreover, we can draw inspiration from a revision of Royal Decrees Nos. 15 and 150 dating from 1982, known as "Cooreman-De Clercq decrees", which at the time had enabled a very large recapitalisation of enterprises and the creation of many jobs. As a reminder, these provisions provided for preferential dividends for those who recapitalised, dividends paid before ISOC, provided that most of the money invested was used for real investments, in short not for financial investments. The whole was divided over several years for the realization of the investments (three years) and the tax advantage (ten years). At the time, 26,000 companies had benefited from this mechanism, 95 per cent of which were SMEs. In fact, they were mostly family businesses. This mechanism can still prove extremely interesting to update in the light of the current economic crisis. As this idea was then carried by two representatives of the PVP and the PVV – as was once said – I postulate that it could serve as a sound basis for work for the current government. In any case, this is a mechanism to be taken into consideration in order to complete the text that we are considering today and which will receive the support of the CDH. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not rewrite history. I just want to confirm what colleagues Vanbesien and Vandenbroucke have said, namely that there was an effective discussion on what is now relic and recovery. I have to admit, this is probably more relance than recovery. In this sense, I would like to thank the majority parties very clearly for their support for this legislative proposal. For some it was not at the top of their list of priorities, others we had to convince during the formation of the government of its merits in the context of a balanced government agreement. I would also like to thank those who do not belong to the majority, but who have supported this proposal in committee. Relance deserves the broadest possible support. We are facing ten difficult years and it is therefore a good thing that the measures that are being taken are carried out as widely as possible. I also understand those who do not belong to the majority and do not support this proposal. Those are the ones who have learned nothing from history. We cannot live without a powerful government, but it is entrepreneurship that is the driving force behind sustainable prosperity creation. The cake must be baked before it can be redistributed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the second time in a year that COOVID-19 is destroying parts of our economy. We are in a 90 percent economy and I hope it will not be an 85 percent economy. Many measures have been taken to support the liquidity of companies and the purchasing power of people. They are a buffer for a number of things, which is good, but that is not enough. We are flooded daily with figures about the evolution of hospital admissions and deaths. It is right that we should have that concern. These figures give rise to a great deal of fear, but that does not mean that we should be blind to the deeper consequences of this crisis for our society and economy. COVID-19 is like any crisis a particle accelerator, which Schumpeter calls creative destruction. Accelerate the changes in our society. There are always companies that are on their way back and companies that get a boost. In between, there is a middle class of companies that must be the perseverance. They must not be discouraged. They must dare to invest in people and material, to continue and support activities and economic growth. It is also important to invest in the future and not in the past. We must not end up in what Time called the zombie economy in the longer term. Therefore, targeted measures are needed to enable structurally sound farms to be restarted. The previous government has already started with the introduction of the carry back. In this legislative proposal, we are giving companies the opportunity to speed up the recovery of the solvency affected by the corona crisis. I do not go into the details, but I would like to emphasise that this is a very targeted package. These are companies that are struggling because of the covid crisis. They want to go for relance. They want to keep their jobs. These are companies that behave well and want to keep their profits in the company. This is a conditional exemption from taxes and a measure which is likely to yield a return in the long term for two reasons. Firstly, fewer entrepreneurs will throw in the towel. This means that fewer people will end up in unemployment. This is important as a basis for our social security. Secondly, in the medium term, this measure will strengthen investment by making it easier for companies to borrow their capital buffers and thereby also to grow better and faster. I have always been critical when it comes to payback effects, but I think, and some analyses also show that there are good indications that this will have a positive effect in the long term, even though we know that this will lead to a shift in tax collection in the short term. This money is used as a buffer, as a strengthening of equity and, as the FPS Finance has clearly said, will have no effect in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u100	Since the Minister of Finance is not present, I would like to put my question to you as the author, Mr Leysen. If Mrs Khattabi replied, we might get an answer that is not so desirable for the liberals. That's what we saw in the carbon tax. Reconstruction is being approved here and will have an effect in the long term, as you yourself said. However, this measure will have a certain impact on the budget in 2021. The draft budget was submitted to Europe on 30 October. There is no direct impact of the reconstruction reserve in this draft budget. How do you explain that? Could you explain why, at first glance, the impact of the reconstruction reserve was not included in that draft budget? As the author, I am sure you know the figures for your proposal. What is the impact of the proposal that we are now adopting on the 2021 budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u101	I am not speaking on behalf of others, but in the budget as it stands, this proposal will undoubtedly be taken into account, especially if you approve it later. We must prepare our society for the post-covid era. With this measure we are taking a step in the right direction. If we approve this measure, I am a happy Member of Parliament. The adoption of this measure also has an important signal function and shows that we are also thinking about the relance, that we are supporting entrepreneurs, whether it is a small SME or the CEO of a large company. If you vote for this law, they will receive the message that the Rue de la Loi is of course concerned about the health of the people, but also about the future of our companies. This extra push in the back of companies that are structurally healthy, but battered by the covid crisis, will remember those companies and will also have a positive impact on the relance as a whole. If this is approved, we will have taken the first step in a series of re-launch measures, which we hope will soon follow. Hopefully we will also have broad support in this hemisphere for this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u102	Madam President, I would like to respond to Mrs De Block and Mr Leysen, who undoubtedly know a great deal about balance sheets and accounting and, therefore, no doubt also know that companies will make advance tax payments in 2021. In accounting terms, companies will anticipate the 2022 measure. It is therefore impossible to claim here that there will be no budgetary impact in 2021. Nor can it be said to Europe that a measure adopted here will have no impact at all on the budget. Mr Leysen, you can tell people a lot, but not that. I would like to know the impact on the 2021 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u103	Mr Vermeersch, the budget, which will be finalized and submitted, will take account, among other things, of what you will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1412/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1412/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. Amendments 2 to 4 were withdrawn. Amendments Nos 2 to 4 were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u107	The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of French-speaking State Councillor was communicated to you during the plenary session on 22 October 2020. The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of the French-speaking State Council was communicated to you at the plenary session of 22 October 2020. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, and within a period of not more than 30 days from the receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70 (1) (8) of the Laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification of the nomination, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned. The time limit for the House to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 15 November 2020. The time limit available to the Chamber to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 15 November 2020. I suggest that you confirm the list presented by the Council of State. I propose that you confirm the list proposed by the Council of State. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u108	The Chamber shall appoint the actual members of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. The Chamber should designate the effective members of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting on 29 October 2020, we will make these appointments during the plenary meeting on 26 November 2020. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 29 October 2020, we will proceed to these appointments at the plenary session of 26 November 2020. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 13 November 2020 until Thursday 26 November 2020 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 13 November 2020 until Thursday 26 November 2020 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot boxes will be open during the plenary session on Thursday, 26 November 2020, at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The two youngest members are invited to attend the recount. The urns with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 26 November 2020 at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The youngest two members are invited to attend. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u109	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u110	Mr Prévot, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution to recognise and support patients with long-term "COVID-19", No 1596/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u111	Madam President, we are indeed calling for the urgent consideration of this motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague Mr Fonck and my colleagues in the cdH group on precisely the support given to patients with long-term VOCID-19. You know that there is a very contrasting situation in hospital with some patients who are going to keep after-effects, stigmas related to their infection with VOCID-19 for long weeks and months. As we speak, these patients don't know what sauce they're going to eat. In other words, they cannot have clarity on their rights, for example, to medical or administrative support, at the social level, on any financial aid, because the whole process of revalidation will be lengthy and costly. Yes or no, can they, for example, benefit from the maximum amount to be billed? Long-term VOCID-19 patients need clarity as to how the government is prepared to support them. The same applies to caregivers who today need guidelines to know what is happening at the level of care. Should it be multidisciplinary, as everyone imagines? Should it be in the long term? How will she be able to organize herself? How will it be able to be financed? It is in the face of the situation in which a number of Belgians are confronted with these long-term infections that we are calling for this motion for a resolution to be given urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u112	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u113	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of the proposal for a special law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to the compulsory registration of foreign notarial acts (I), No. 1635/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u114	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the proposal for special law No. 1635/1. It is linked to the draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to the compulsory registration of foreign notarial documents. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the legislative proposal on the cheese route that we adopted in the Finance Committee on 7 July. That was then sent to the plenary and the opinion of the Council of State was requested. That opinion stated that part of the original bill is bicameral and that there must therefore be a split up which requires a proposal of special law. This is that proposal of special law. The proposal we adopted in committee had been given the urgency and missing it is linked to it, it seems to be the logic itself that this proposal of special law should also be given the urgency. I would like to remind colleagues that the date of entry into force of the proposed directive is 1 December and that we must therefore hurry. That is why this proposal should also be given the urgency so that it can reach the agenda of the Finance Committee on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u115	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u116	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 27 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 27 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 42/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Vermeersch; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 42/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Vermeersch; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 October 2020 we all received the sloppy A4 from the fresh government with the budget table of purple-green plus. The document ultimately raised more questions than the solution. During the debate on the declaration of government, the confusion about the document became even greater, not least on the government banks themselves. During the first parliamentary debate, a discussion between the Prime Minister and critical MPs on the amounts in the table arose. The budget was knocked off one night. The expected hangover came afterwards. The new purple-green government is therefore threatening to use the same disastrous budgetary magic tricks as the purple-green Verhofstadt cabinet. Several one-off measures and the fact that fraud is being tackled are closing the ever-increasing gap in the budget. In the meantime, several economists point out that even Prime Minister De Croo misinterpreted the budget table. In the policy statement of the new Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs De Bleeker, we read literally - and I quote - "We are working towards greater transparency and clarity. Those are two other red lines, which you will find in my policy." However, the government prevents a serious discussion of the policy letters. We are today 12 November 2020. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the policy statement had to be discussed by today at the latest. However, that did not happen. The majority of Parliament's parties ignore the Rules of Procedure. In our view, this is a bad start and is far from transparent and clear. We will monitor the current government and budgetary policy constructively but critically in committee and in Parliament in the interests of all Flemings who work, save and undertake. That's why we filed our motion. We want to be able to look at the budgetary work in depth. That is why we ask the government to provide Parliament with all the information, parameters and explanatory notes on the budget table. For the time being, that has not happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u118	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u119	Yes 90 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u120	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 28 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 28 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 35/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 35/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my previous motion for a recommendation was about violating a constitutional article which Minister De Sutter admitted to being violated, but which apparently would not hurt. Now we are talking about another constitutional article, Article 96, which is interpreted very widely. I had already submitted this interview to Prime Minister Wilmès at the time, but it is not her custom to come regularly to answer questions, and I have then returned them to the current Prime Minister. After all, we had a very bizarre situation. Everyone knows the role of the King after elections, if there is no government, to come to a new government. However, if there is a government in full power, there are many constitutional specialists who consider it very unconstitutional and extremely dangerous that the King should assume a role that he does not have constitutionally. We have seen strange things happen since 20 July, with a King who actively mixed up by appointing mandate holders and pre-formers, who even refused the dismissal of pre-formers and was very selective in the audiences of party chairmen, which is a violation of his mandatory neutrality. Several constitutional specialists point to the danger and its precedent value. That is why I propose a motion of recommendation to this House, which says that the Constitution is not a piece of paper for you. My motion for a recommendation calls on the government and the Prime Minister to at least make the King diets to keep to the role he has been assigned to him in the future, to the neutral role he has been given, otherwise that will only bring misery and misery.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u122	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u123	Yes 91 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u124	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 28 October 2020. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 28 October 2020. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 43/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Raoul Hedebouw; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 43/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my motion concerns the regulation which you are all familiar with, namely the provision that former ministers and former State Secretarys can call on two full-time employees to a full-time term of office. Since 2011, successive federal governments have announced the need to adapt this regime, but in practice it never does. The most concrete announcement came from then Prime Minister Michel who said that the system would be adapted from the present legislature. That too turned out to be an empty promise. I have questioned the current Prime Minister about this and he has no plans whatsoever in that direction. He was able to say in his reply that EUR 112.152.30 per former member of the government is foreseen for this scandalous system every year. Add to this the 13 former ministers and former secretaries of state who can make use of them, and the figure is EUR 1,458 000 a year. This arrangement will apply until the next federal government has been appointed, and you know that this entire legislature will probably run until after 2024, because in this country it may take years until after the elections before the next government has been appointed. I do not see why former ministers and former secretaries of state who are again in Parliament, such as colleagues De Block, Geens, Ducarme and Bacquelaine, should all have two extra full-time employees, even though they already have parliamentary assistants. This is an archaic and expensive regime which must be abolished. If the Prime Minister repeats in his answer to my question that this government wants to make democratic renewal a priority and strengthen confidence in politics, then I think that if you attach a little bit of credibility to it, you have no choice but to support this motion of recommendation which seeks to abolish this expensive and archaic arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u126	Colleagues, how is it possible? How is it possible? We have been saying for ten years that it is not possible for ministers who are no longer ministers to have two full-time employees. Everyone has been saying for years that this system must be abolished, but the Vivaldi government is simply continuing to do so. Those ex-ministers all get two full-time employees. Even worse is that today ex-Ministers are MPs and therefore already have two full-time employees, yet they still apply for two extra full-time employees. That's the double jackpot win. Can the nation know who the ex-ministers are applying for the double jackpot? Mrs De Block, double jackpot, four people employed; Mr Bacquelaine, four full-time employees, there will be work to be done; Mr Goffin, Mr Peeters, Mr Reynders, who is now European Commissioner, double jackpot, another two people inside. How is that possible? There would be another political culture, but the double jackpot system goes on and that will cost the taxpayer EUR 6-7 million. Aren't you ashamed? When I asked the Prime Minister how he felt about that, he turned his eyes. I asked for the list of people who asked for the double jackpot. He had to read it to me. It was embarrassing. How dare you? How dare you make that application? Do you think a worker who is thrown out of the factory will get two full-time employees? You all have a choice now. The motion of the PVDA is for a vote. Vote for it, so that this system will simply end, so that it is done that ex-ministers in Belgium will have two well-paid full-time employees. I think that's just a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u127	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u128	Yes 90 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u129	This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Justice Committee on 28 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 28 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 44/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 44/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u130	Madam President, I have a very important motion here. Since data retention legislation, which is very important for investigators, has been destroyed by the European Court of Justice into firewood, the Belgian legislator will have to amend the law. Now, that data retention legislation is very important. Telecom providers must keep a preventive record of their users' data for one year. It's not about who those users were in contact with, it's just about where those users were. So it's not about the content. The obligation to keep up with telecom data would be contrary to the right to privacy. That's where the shoe for the criminal investigation is wringing. The investigators are in the hair with their hands in them. When they arrive at a place where a crime has been committed, the first thing they do after the trace and the neighborhood investigation is to find out what the phone records are. This is not only the case for serious criminals, but often also in cases where someone is missing. Now, the Court leaves an opening and says: the retention of that data can still be for targeted groups of individuals, namely ex-criminals. But that's where the shoe wrings. A child who disappears has no criminal record. There can therefore no longer be looked at the data on the mobile phone to know where the child was last. The investigators have sounded the alarm bell. I sounded the alarm bell on the committee. I have therefore tabled a motion to urgently take the necessary initiatives to adapt the legislation in this area so that the views of the European Court of Justice can be taken into account and to see how other EU countries can resolve this. Only three countries appear to have been convicted. So let us see how the other EU countries deal with this and how we can ensure that the investigators can continue to work, and that the ongoing criminal investigations are also not ignored by the new rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u131	Madam President, I must inform you that, in the last vote, Mrs Verhaert was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u132	The same applies to Mr Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u133	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u134	Yes 92 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 134 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1412/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1412/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-12-55-plenair-ip070x.u136	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. I close the meeting, not without telling you that there are services in the House that are still working for a few hours after our sitting. We have a thought for them and for all the work they do each plenary session. We thank them. [[Applause]] The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 19, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 November 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
