ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u1	Colleagues, as with other committees, today we are opening our first meeting by videoconference. First of all, I would like to express my wishes for good health – or for a speedy recovery if some colleagues have experienced difficulties – for everyone. I wish you and your neighbors good health. I thank the services that have mobilized so that we can hold this topical debate, as well as the minister, who is here to answer your questions. As a first step, we brought together issues related to air and road transport – as well as the skeyes company. Secondly, we have brought together all those relating to the rail sector. We will therefore have two topical debates. I would point out that the groups that have not registered a speaker will nevertheless have the opportunity to speak after the questions. We must try to organize speaking time in the most optimal way possible. For Parliament, it is especially important to get answers from the minister to our questions. Each Member of Parliament will intervene in the order of registration. Colleagues, you have a choice: either you take the floor for two minutes to ask your question or you can simply refer to its written version as it was tabled, in which case your text will be reflected in full in the minutes of this committee meeting. To colleagues who have introduced more than one question per debate, we propose that they carry out a synthesis of not more than three minutes. Members who have several questions have the choice: either they refer to the original text of their questions or they give a summary of them within three minutes. Then the minister will take the time to answer all the questions. Parliamentarians will then be able to have the last word, as the Rules of Procedure want. We will start with the first topical debate on air and road transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u2	Minister, my question is about empty aircraft flights. The European rule on the allocation of take-off and landing slots, known as the 80-20 rule, stipulates that companies that do not make at least 80% of their flights effective may lose their slots to other companies, on the basis of the "Use it or lose it" principle. In the current context of coronavirus, this rule has led airlines to fly almost or completely empty aircraft. This is obviously an economic, environmental and climate nonsense. The Commission was able to find a solution to suspend this mechanism. However, this is a temporary solution. Minister, in your opinion, is the current context an opportunity to restructure the air sector? More specifically, are you in favour of setting up a new mechanism to encourage airlines to parsimony, in particular by putting the number of flights more in line with demand? Are you in favour of rationalising flights, including those less than 1,000 kilometres for which alternatives can be easily found, e.g. via the rail network?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u3	Minister, my question concerns the unladen flights that were found during the month of March and that were intended to comply with the rule that my colleague has explained very well. This rule was suspended by the European Parliament on 26 March. Among the three urgent measures adopted on that day in the fight against coronavirus was the temporary suspension of EU rules on slots at airports, including the so-called "Use it or lose it" principle of having to use its take-off and landing slots on pain of permanent loss. Mr Minister, I would like to know your views on the advisability of restructuring these rules which tend to densify air traffic, sometimes to the detriment of any economic logic and especially climate. What was the extent of these practices in our country? Which airports and companies were involved? This crisis of the coronavirus really offers us the opportunity to fundamentally rethink a whole series of functionings at the base of our society. I believe that under no circumstances and at no cost should this opportunity be missed for fundamental reflection. The air transport sector has a huge impact on our carbon emissions, and I believe that political reflection must engage on this issue. This "Use it or lose it" rule gives us the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u4	Mrs Schlitz, I apologize. You were supposed to speak before Mr. Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u5	Mr. Chair, Minister, it appears that the Driver's Permit examination centres have not yet reopened. Unfortunately, during this period, a number of interim permits will expire. The persons concerned will therefore not be able to pass their practical examination in order to obtain their final licence. It is unthinkable that these persons must re-examine their theoretical examination because of a decision of which they are victims. Professional drivers also cannot pass their exams in connection with compulsory continuing training. This situation could therefore also have consequences for road hauliers, whose role is all the more crucial today for the supply of our food stores. In view of the situation, minister, what steps have you taken to prevent these people from ending up without a valid permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u6	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, and knowing you are affected by the coronavirus, allow me, Mr Burton, to wish you a speedy recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u7	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to talk about skeyes. We shouldn't draw a picture, the air traffic has collapsed. Up to 90% of the planned volumes were shut down. This has never been seen in the aviation sector. Air traffic controllers are virtually free from airlines' fees. For skeyes this means a large lack of revenue, it misses more than EUR 100 million in revenue. The EUROCONTROL Member States have agreed to an aid package allowing airlines to postpone the payment of up to EUR 1.1 billion to air traffic controllers in the coming months. That should give some financial breathing space to the airlines. But it remains a very precarious situation. Airlines for Europe, the interest organisation of major European airlines says they are happy with this decision, but hopes for more and asks if the ATC funds would be cancelled for the whole year. I have a few questions about that. Minister, will the federal government pre-finance the lost earnings of skeyes? Will the federal government defer payment of social security contributions to skeyes? Can you guarantee the full employment and income of the employees of skeyes for the coming months? What is your position on the ATC funds? Can they be cancelled for a full year? Less than a year ago, you yourself argued in favour of abandoning the monopoly position of skeyes. Do you still support this view in the current context? Do you think there should be only one player now? More generally, is there a plan of action for the entire aviation sector? Are we helping every company in need by reducing their debts without further ado? Or should we ask for business in return? Will there be nationalisations in the aviation sector? What's the role of skeyes in this? Is the MR still in favour of working with regional air traffic controllers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u8	We have no news of Mrs. Verhaert. Do colleagues other than those who have tabled questions wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u9	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would just like to touch briefly on two points, which have already been mentioned here. Firstly, there is the perverseness of empty flights, which is, of course, completely insane from an economic and ecological point of view. In what way do you intend to contribute to the reform of the landing rights system in order to avoid that situation in the future? Secondly, there is the worrying financial situation of skeyes. Measures have already been taken, but I would also have liked to know whether there is a way of stabilising the situation in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u10	Mr President, I wanted to react to the question of empty planes. It hit all of us. Fortunately, as mentioned by my colleagues, a decision was taken at European Union level to suspend the so-called rule requiring airlines to use at least 80% of their take-off and landing slots in order to keep them the following year. But this decision prompted airlines to review their policies. Either the company completely suspends its flights; this is particularly the case with Brussels Airlines. Either it assigns its aircraft to freight, such as Lufthansa and Qatar Airways. The law allows exemptions for relief flights as well as humanitarian flights, but not for cargo flights that carry commercial goods unless, in the context of the crisis we are experiencing today, it is a matter of transporting medical equipment or essential products such as those related to food. Minister, how are the exemptions granted to these flights today by the federal government? Are these only sanitary flights or are they considered to be such flights? How is compliance with these derogations verified? I would also like to ask myself the question of the proportion of aircraft that are now carrying goods at the departure and arrival of Brussels-National. What is their frequency? What type of goods are they, specifying the proportion for each type of goods? I am aware that these are encrypted data. Therefore, if you do not have the opportunity to answer me today, I will take care to ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u11	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you. Do other colleagues still wish to speak? [[No]] I would remind you that you can request the floor by electronic means, by pressing the appropriate key. In that case, the secretariat will see that you are asking for the floor. You can also raise your hand, make a little gesture or grimaces; normally I should see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. Take care of yourself and your loved ones. The way in which we organize our work today is proof of this: we may have to learn from it and not always say that telework is for others. Perhaps we will also have to reflect, within our Parliament, on how to do so. If we suggest that others do telework, perhaps we should be the first to set an example. In any case, this is an example today. As regards questions relating to unladen flights and the rule on slots from Belgian airports, for information purposes, when referring to Rule 80-20, reference is made to Council Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 of 18 January 1993 laying down common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports. By summarising for the issues that concern us, when an air carrier cannot reach the 80% rate of use of the requested slots, the coordinator – what is known as the slot coordinator – may, after hearing the air carrier concerned on the reasons that that carrier may raise to explain a usage of less than 80%, decide to maintain the slots for the latter if the reasons given are admissible, or to withdraw the slot series from that air carrier for the remainder of the scheduling period and place them in a common pot if the slot coordinator considers that the reasons given are contentious or abusive. The notion of common pot means that the slot can be requested by and attributed to another company. As early as 9 March 2020, the EUACA – the European association of airport slot managers for take-off and landing – argued with the European Commission for a temporary exemption from the 80-20 rule. In fact, we had been asked before that date to support the suspension of the application of this rule since the companies were flying unladen aircraft to ensure that they kept their slots at the end of the crisis, which would have been unacceptable. This position was also supported by IATA. The following day, on 10 March, the President of the Commission announced her willingness to temporarily relax the regulation on slots in the light of the VOCID-19 pandemic. The Commission has therefore suspended the effects of the Regulation until 30 June 2020 initially, with the possibility of extending the temporary exemption. In the meantime, the Commission has presented a legislative proposal to revise Regulation (EC) No 95/93, in order to allow air carriers to suspend their flights without losing their rights to future slots at airports, and to adapt this regulation to the realities of our time. Discussions between the 27 Member States are still ongoing. If the impact of VOCID-19 on the aviation sector persists, the text provides that the Commission may extend the derogations provided for by delegated acts. Some colleagues are asking me about how the aviation world will be organised tomorrow. The world of aviation will be organized tomorrow as it was before the crisis, unless further decisions are taken and another international distribution of economic and passenger activity is established. The whole thing is to see how our world will be after the crisis of coronavirus. There will probably be a post-coronavirus, which will be different from the pre-coronavirus. We'll see how to consider it. Cargo planes are not organized by category of equipment, that's not how it works. It's kind of like a factor, who has in his van envelopes with recommended ones, electricity or gas bills, a postcard and a small package. When the aircraft starts from its point of departure, the carrier does not know all the equipment on board. He can say that a part comes from such a medical or pharmaceutical company, whether they are vegetables or industrial equipment. But there is not a medical plane, a plane this or that: everything is mixed in a plane. Organizing this otherwise would require an international reorganization, knowing that emergency medical equipment – such as an urgent package of medicines weighing 10 to 20 kilos – can be placed in an airplane next to other goods. I've been through this as a minister. Sometimes I've seen planes take off outside the scheduled slots at night. We wanted to verbalize them, but they produced a certificate from the WHO or another international organization indicating the urgency of certain things, such as blood bags. In short, the variety of goods on an airplane is very large. It is therefore impossible to say in Brussels today that there are medical planes and others. Most recently, WHO has chosen a series of medically strategic airports around the world. If there were to be no more airport activity at all, these airports would have to obtain all technical, technological, military and other aids in order to operate. On this list is Liège Airport. I cannot tell you exactly how many aircraft land in Brussels a day, but in my opinion it must be about 60 or 70 movements of cargo aircraft a day. With regard to issues relating to the right of passengers to cancel flights in the context of a coronavirus pandemic, the crisis resulted in the almost complete cessation of international travel, including the carriage of passengers by air. Air passenger law is laid down in Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is therefore a case that is managed at European level and not at all at national level. A common response from the 27 Member States will have to be found. At present, the aviation sector is seriously affected by the crisis, with airlines in the forefront being in extremely difficult financial situations. Today, companies face a major cash problem, as they have large aircraft hire loads, fixed loads, etc. To pay them, they need cash. Secondly, in the coming weeks or days the problem of solvency will arise. When they make their operating accounts, they find that their current losses exceed their reserves and capital so that they are virtually at a standstill and that confidence in creditors is shaken. In Belgium, it is Article 663 of the coordinated laws on commercial practices that would require the board of directors to appear before the judge of the commercial court to file the balance sheet. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between cash and solvency. Indeed, companies may be deprived of cash, but have good solvency. Others may be deprived of cash and be called upon to face major solvency problems. In the aviation sector, all companies around the world, with the exception of those in the Middle East that are hypercapitalised, will face a problem of cash and solvency. I come back to the people who booked a trip. They are also victims of this situation. It is therefore normal for them to be protected in the event of cancellation or probable cancellation of the flight they have booked. European Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 lays down the rules governing the conditions and the various mechanisms for providing compensation to passengers in the event of flight cancellations. However, in the current situation where a very large number of flights are cancelled and the activity is almost stationary, the cash flow of the airlines is subject to high pressure. For some of them, the threat of deposit of balance sheet exists, if no action is taken. The question then arises as to how to strike a balance between the right compensation of customers and the safeguarding of airlines. Several Member States have already formally requested Commissioner Vălean to make changes to the European Regulation. The proposal made by these countries aims to allow European airlines to offer, as a first step, the reimbursement of cancelled flights via a voucher allowing customers to choose a flight of similar value. If, after a specified period of time, the client did not use his voucher, the cash refund may be made. We are currently analysing this proposal. In any event, the solution to be found must ensure the balance between all the stakeholders involved in this issue: the rights to be guaranteed for each and the sustainability for the other. Without going into details, I note that Flex tickets are automatically refunded by the companies because this is a particular product. There is a wide variety of airfare offers. Some are subject to general conditions, while others are subject to special conditions, as is the case for Flex tickets that have already been reimbursed. In skeyes, the coronavirus pandemic resulted in almost complete cessation of international travel, including air passenger flights. We are currently at the heart of the crisis and we do not yet know how long it will last. The longer the crisis will be, the greater its impact on the future of aviation. This is not only the case with aviation. Air traffic control is an indispensable service to ensure the supply of the country, including supplies of medical equipment. The organisation of these services is defined by European regulations within the framework of the Single European Sky Programme. Therefore, beyond the national level, decisions must be taken at European level. Currently, the activity of all actors in the aeronautics sector is very much reduced. Revenues have therefore fallen sharply, leading to difficult financial situations for all actors. This situation is, of course, without equivalent in the history of aviation. Prior to the crisis, EUROCONTROL forecasted 1,349,000 movements in Belgian airspace for the year 2020 and 1,394,000 movements in 2021, an annual growth of 2.8% and 1.5% respectively compared to 2019. Following the coronavirus crisis, EUROCONTROL currently estimates that air traffic is expected to decrease by 53% in 2020 compared to the 2019 traffic level. You're going to tell me that there are almost no more aircraft today, but you have to know that planes flew until the end of March in almost equivalent numbers to previous years. 88,000 movements were recorded in Belgian airspace in January, 84,000 in February and 53,000 in March. Since the end of March, air traffic has stabilized to 10% of the level recorded in 2019. The effects of the crisis are expected to be felt for several years to come. However, no one can predict with certainty that the crisis will bring about a lasting change in user behaviour. Skeyes must therefore keep sufficient traffic controllers operational to ensure the safety of air transport when air traffic is restarted. Air navigation service rates are based on traffic forecasts. Given the sudden and sharp decline in air traffic, skeyes estimates that the revenue loss will be EUR 150 million in 2020 and EUR 50 million in 2021, based on the International Air Transport Association (IATA) forecast for a recovery at the end of the year. Under the current European rules, this loss of revenue must be partly borne by skeyes (4.4%), while the rest must be compensated by higher fares for airlines in the year 2022 alone. European states are working together to identify coordinated solutions that enable industry players – including the Air Navigation Service Provider (ANSP) – to resist the crisis caused by the VOCID-19. Many options are currently under consideration. Skeyes activities, regardless of the number of flights per month, must continue for obvious safety reasons. Belgian airspace cannot be deprived of air control, as several national and international aircraft continue to fly over our country. With regard to the road record, as soon as the confinement was announced, and taking into account the closures of the regional review centres, I had a draft Royal Amending Order prepared to address certain problems of extending the validity of documents relating to the driving licence. This text is currently subject to the formal procedure for requesting the views of regional governments. This request follows numerous prior contacts between different firms. As soon as they have given their consent, the draft royal decree can be published quickly. The measures contained therein will enter into force retroactively to 16 March 2020. In particular, it provides that driving licences – including provisional driving licences – which would expire after 15 March 2020 are automatically extended until 30 September 2020. The Regions are competent for the examination centres, but they are also competent to decide on a temporary change in the conditions for access to the practical examination, including the obligation to hold a valid theoretical examination. At the federal level, the Order provides that applications for a driver's licence – including a provisional licence – that, under normal circumstances, must be submitted within three years of the successful completion of the practical or theoretical examination may be submitted until September 30, 2020, if one of the two examinations was successful before March 16. With regard to the problem of medical and psychological rehabilitation studies, I would first of all like to make it clear that the FPS Mobility and Transport is solely responsible for monitoring compliance with the conditions of recognition of the psycho-medical-social centres, in accordance with Article 73 of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences. The questions about the number of cases that have been postponed and about the execution and impact of these measures on the imposition and execution of penalties should be put to my fellow Minister of Justice. The Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of the Covid-19 corona virus, last amended by Ministerial Decision of 3 April 2020, explicitly excludes the psycho-medical-social centres for restoring the right to control from the essential services in the Annex. The non-essential companies in the inability to respect telework and social discrimination measures must be closed down. Since these centres which organise medical and psychological rehabilitation studies are closed, we cannot obtain figures of the number of drivers currently required to carry out these rehabilitation studies. The FPS Mobility and Transport will ensure that the most urgent dossiers are dealt with at the start-up of these centres. The Royal Decree will provide for the extension of the validity of the temporary driving licences by means of transitional measures. These are the different elements that I could provide in answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u13	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I come back to the colleagues in order of their application for inclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u14	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I have heard your shared concern about these empty robberies that scandalize everyone and that no one understands. I heard you also say that the world will change after the crisis. That's what we want. More specifically, in a joint effort, we want it to change more sustainably, more justly and more socially. We will, of course, pay close attention to the fact that the European regulations currently suspended can be modified structurally and on a more permanent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u15	Mr President, Minister, these are indeed financial extreme times, both for airlines and for consumers. Minister Muylle has already made a lot of arrangements for consumers who have booked package travel, but consumers who have only booked a plane ticket are still excluded for the time being. I would therefore urge that a solution be sought at European level, both in terms of reimbursement of tickets and in terms of consumer protection if an airline goes bankrupt. There must also be protection for consumers. A balance must be struck between the protection of airlines and consumer protection. Possibly a system of vouchers can be a nice solution. I look forward to the solution. I hope that this will be done fairly quickly and that once there is a solution, it will be communicated very clearly to consumers, because they will be waiting for it. In any case, thank you for your detailed explanation and I look forward to the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I believe that the measures you have mentioned will help to regulate the situation. Your action responds to many questions within the population concerned by these problems. This action was indispensable. Take care of yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u17	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reply and have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u18	Mr President, because I was still in a college, I had some delay. Mr Minister, the aviation sector has demonstrated its importance in recent days, including in the supply of medical equipment. It turns out it's a chain that, if one link is removed, is completely disturbed. It is therefore still important to follow very closely the case of skeyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply, to which I will not comment much, except that we are currently in the dark about the possible duration of this crisis, how and when economic activities will resume with the aviation sector, among others, and how long today's negative effects will continue in the future. There is therefore a great deal of international cooperation involved. I hope that our country will be constructive in this respect. As far as aviation is concerned, changes may need to be made to the rules, including on landing rights. I hope that we will consider how this can be implemented in a more sustainable way than is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u20	Minister, I am a little disappointed by the few answers to my questions. I would urge you to reply in writing to the questions you have not answered. Two things are still very important for the staff of both skeyes and the whole of the airport community. Firstly, I call for coordination on the health and safety of workers at the airport. That is what is lacking today, and people are very afraid that the safety and health of staff and passengers will not be adequately guaranteed at the start-up. I have already asked for this and can assure you that I receive daily e-mails from people complaining that the safety of workers at the airport is still not respected. Secondly, the workers are very worried about their jobs. I hope you'll do everything you can to keep the jobs. Many people are now technically unemployed, often from precarious statutes. I hope you will do everything you can to keep their jobs and their wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear the difficulties in controlling the derogations that have been granted to cargo aircraft, since these aircraft carry a multitude of goods of all kinds. Care must be taken to ensure that medical certificates, which would be issued by WHO or otherwise, are not used to justify the transport of goods outside of health or humanitarian flights and for which exemptions have been granted. The checks carried out seem to me to be insufficient, especially since at Brussels-National airport this poses a real problem for residents in particular when it comes to derogation from the quotas for night flights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u22	Minister, thank you. I hope everyone's doing the best they can. You said the world will not be the same after the crisis of the VOCID-19. This is obvious, in all sectors elsewhere and in the air sector in particular. Many airlines are already using aid in neighbouring countries – Germany, France, etc. – and in Belgium as well. This will require a strong European response, as well as from different states. For us, environmentalists, this is an opportunity to reflect deeply on a transformation of the sector and a transition to another model – the current one, in our view, is neither sustainable nor sustainable. We would like you to be able to convey these concerns, whether in terms of taxation – the kerosene tax should be introduced as soon as possible at European level – to regulate flights of less than 1000 km at intra-European level, to reduce CO2 emissions and finally to improve the quality of life of citizens living around airports. We ask you that these very important elements can be put forward in the profound overhaul of the sector, which will certainly happen in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Lommel's 55004259C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u24	Mr Minister, with my first question, which dates back to February, when the crisis had not yet fully erupted, I wanted to know if SNCB had a health plan. This subject is also addressed in the second question, on which I will focus in particular. Railways play a crucial role in the fight against the spread of the virus. For SNCB and Infrabel, this means that all non-essential activities not directly linked to the running of necessary trains must stop. An amended transport plan has therefore been in force since the end of March at the request of the trade unions. I would like to thank all the staff, who are incredibly committed to this difficult period: with the transport plan they ensure that the people who have to work get to work. This is very important for public transport. However, we have many comments and testimonies from railway workers, both from Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, who are very concerned about staff and passengers. Hence the following questions. Only persons with a valid motive should be able to take the train. These are essential movements. Isn't it up to the railroad police to watch this? In order to avoid the conductors having to do so on the train, this would be better done in advance by the railway police, who can ensure that passengers using the train do so effectively in order to go to work or other essential movements. Do you agree? How do you think you're gonna fix that? A train should only drive when it has been cleaned and disinfected. That is a question of public health. We get a lot of reports from conductors that their cockpit isn't brushed daily. What is being done about this? A temporary suspension of ticket sales should allow for more points of contact to be closed. How do you feel about this? Do all the clerks have to keep working? The driving staff are permanently out of order, i.e. they literally live day to day and only know at the last minute whether or not they have to work and what hours. That gives rise to a lot of problems for the combination of work and family. My last question has actually been asked in my previous question. Is there a roadmap at SNCB for such a health crisis? Was that playbook there at the beginning of the crisis? I also have a question about the subscriptions. Will SNCB extend the expiry date of the Go Pass and Rail Pass by at least one month or longer? Will subscriptions paid by consumers, such as a commuting subscription, school subscriptions or campus cards, be refunded? Will you, in your capacity as Minister for Mobility, urge consumers to pay compensation? Will you consult with the Regions on the problem? What will be your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u25	The Corona virus is spreading everywhere, including on the workplace. Employees of Infrabel are of course also at risk of contamination (signal houses, offices, meeting rooms,.. .) What measures are in place if an Infrabel employee suffers from signs that may indicate an infection with the Corona virus? 1.What preventive measures are in force for the Infrabel staff? Mouth masks? Decontaminated products? Special procedure to call in the emergency worker physician? 2.Would any infections already occur among the Infrabel staff? If so, how many? What measures were taken to contact other persons who came into contact with the infected person? 3.Does Corona virus cause an increased breakdown to be noted among the Infrabel staff? If so, are exact figures available? Is there also a 'timeline' available in the number of infections? The Corona crisis led to the number of train passengers taking a good dip. SNCB and INFRABEL took measures by adjusting the offer to optimise this offer. It's an understandable procedure. However, the choices in cutting the supply raise questions. Many travellers ask themselves questions about the layout of this new timetable. Especially the fact that the first and last trains are taken out of service raises questions. Shiftworkers (including those in the care sector and even those working in the SNCB's own workshop - in Mechelen) are no longer getting on the train at work or back from work to home. One of the most affected regions is South-East Flanders. The last trains from Brussels to Denderleeuw, Aalst, Zottegem and Oudenaarde depart at 20:41 (idem for Aalst) and 20:16 (idem for Oudenaarde) respectively. For Ninove it is even more remarkable: the last train from Brussels-Central to Ninove leaves at 18:46 (!). 1.Which actors were involved in the preparation of these temporary exceptional measures? 2.Has a mid-term evaluation been carried out or is it planned? 3.Are any adjustments envisaged, especially since the Corona crisis and the accompanying measures are not yet in place? 4.If so, which actors will be involved in the preparation of these temporary measures? As a result of the Corona crisis, a large number of workers who normally use the train - and often also pay parking - on commuting are forced to work or are even technically unemployed. Consequently, the station parkings are almost empty. However, many of these parking spaces are paid in the form of a subscription. This seems to me to be an unnecessary cost for the subscriber, and encourages us to think. Does SNCB intend to provide a concession for the holders of a parking ticket? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u26	Mr Minister, unlike the passenger trains, which have been virtually empty since the corona measures, freight trains are still as full or as full as possible. Freight trains are of great importance in modal shift and the supply of essential sectors, less essential sectors and even very essential sectors. The situation in freight transport was already precarious for the corona crisis. I am thinking, among other things, of the break-up of line 26a in Schaerbeek Forming, the work on crucial bridges in the port of Antwerp and the strike on the French railways. The corona crisis has exposed those weaknesses even more. The industry's questions have become even more urgent. My questions concern both the regulatory framework and the financial aspects. Is work currently being done to recognise the profession of train driver as crucial and essential? If so, when would that happen? If not, do you intend to do so? Is there any possibility of more flexible working and resting hours for train drivers? It is a very specific sector and it is very difficult to operate within tight time limits. If so, when will that happen? If not, do you intend to do so? Then I have a few questions about the financial aspect. Is work currently being done to temporarily suspend road charges, as the water is on the lips of the sector? Can this temporary suspension be introduced? If not, do you intend to do so? Finally, how do you work with the FOD to delay SNCB's payments for the maintenance of locomotives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u27	Mr President, it is clear that we are living in special times. That's what this video conference shows. Our group is pleased that we can continue parliamentary work in this way. We therefore hope that we will be able to repeat this on a weekly basis so that we can question the ministers on a regular basis. While most of the population stays in their homes as they should, there are also a lot of people working in crucial sectors that keep our country going. Think about the care staff, but also about train drivers, people working in the supermarket and so on. These are often professions that are not working from 9 to 5 but which have early or late shifts or even night shifts. We wonder whether the train service of national interest can respond more to the needs of the people who really need the train at the moment. SNCB argues that the social-distanting rules no longer allow people with disabilities to be helped on the train. It was therefore decided on 23 March to stop the assistance scheme. Of course, our group understands this exceptional situation, but we believe that appropriate measures are needed, as we asked in our 50-point plan that we submitted to the Wilmès Government. That is why we are asking ourselves, as a follow-up to this situation, whether there were no other possibilities or measures possible and whether, according to the Minister, these measures are not in breach of the European regulation on passenger rights? In addition to passenger transport, there are also questions about rail freight. After all, this is a crucial pillar in our economy, especially at a time when a logistics chain cannot stop. The sector's having a hard time. The various rail freight companies work closely together in the Belgian Rail Freight Forum. They have questions on the suspension or reduction of lane fees or the extension of the aid measures until the end of 2021, which would normally end at the end of 2020. What measures will the government take to support the movement of goods? Finally, as a group, we have the courage to look at post-corona measures. Many sectors are now extending the deadline for long-term consumer services. We therefore advanced the extension of the end date of the Rail Pass and the Go Pass in the 50 point plan we presented to the government. However, SNCB does not seem to want to answer that question. What are the arguments put forward by SNCB not to introduce these measures? As Minister responsible for SNCB, do you find these arguments valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for taking the time to answer our questions. I am going to put three of them in an attempt to best respect the time allotted to me. My first question concerns the service of general interest to SNCB. In the face of the coronavirus epidemic, SNCB has set up a service of national interest. In concrete terms, this would represent an offer of 75 per cent of the seating positions usually available on the network. This service is intended to enable people whose professional activity is essential to cope with the crisis of the VOCID-19 to go to their place of work, while enjoying sufficient social distancing. In fact, the announced 5% filling rate allows those who do not have the choice to travel by keeping a sufficient distance from other travellers. Minister, with regard to this service of national interest, what measures are being taken to ensure that railway workers work safely in an environment where the risk of contamination is minimized? How many SNCB and Infabel workers are called upon to work outside their home? Finally, have railway undertakings seen an increase in the number of sick leave? Are some tradesmen more affected than others? These include train attendants who are in constant contact with commuters. Let me turn to my second question. This concerns the non-use of SNCB subscriptions. With the deployment of the crisis of the VOCID-19, many passengers do not actually use the subscriptions often concluded for a full year or the "gopass" type of transport tickets valid for a limited period of time. Is it possible, Minister, to postpone the validity of the transit documents on the basis of their non-use during the containment period? What would this cost SNCB if the containment period were to last one, two or three months? My third question concerns the staff of SNCB. Minister, SNCB staff have adapted to safety measures, including workers working in their workshops. For the latter, rotations had been organized, with one of the teams remaining on standby while the second was working. However, since Thursday, 2 April 2020, the entire staff of the workshops have been recalled. However, the amount of work has not increased since trains are running less. Moreover, the tasks carried out make it difficult to apply the rules of social distancing. Minister, what are the reasons why the staff at the SNCB workshops are working fully again? Are trains cleaned before they arrive in the workshop and after their exit in order to preserve the health of workers and users?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u29	Mrs Hanus, thank you for respecting the time allotted for your synthesis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u30	Mr. Speaker, I thank the services of the House because they are really getting out of hand so that we can participate in these videoconferences. Minister, as part of the fight against coronavirus, SNCB has adopted a service of national interest aimed at reducing the supply of transport. SNCB and Infrabel, like all companies, also seek to reduce the risks for their own workers. However, contrary to what was decided in France by SNCF, SNCB has not closed all its windows. To date, it has closed 65 and has just adapted the accessibility of 35 others. Minister, what is the rationale for maintaining the opening of windows in the SNCB network? What is their usefulness in the fight against coronavirus? How do you explain that SNCF made the opposite choice? With regard to the supply of trains, it was revised downwards to 75% according to figures provided by CEO Sophie Dutordoir to the press. The transport company currently has only 10 per cent of the usual passengers with a 4 to 5 per cent occupancy rate. But which says offer of reduced trains and lower occupancy rate means financial losses. Indeed, with confinement, SNCB saw its recipes melt like snow in the sun. The transport company loses 70 million euros of commercial revenue per month in tickets and subscriptions. It's huge! Minister, is government intervention possible to help the transportation company overcome these financial losses? What about the financial impact of the crisis for Infrabel? Has SNCB considered ways to make up for these losses? Should there be an increase in the price of tickets and subscriptions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take advantage of this topical debate to express my concern on two issues which are not covered by my questions, namely the abolition of assistance for people with reduced mobility and rail freight. In this respect, I agree with the questions that Members have already asked. I myself have a question about the subscriptions to SNCB. Can subscription holders expect compensation for the period when they have not been able to use their subscription? Will the duration of multipasses, such as the Go Pass and the Rail Pass, be adjusted and extended with the duration that these passes could not be used? If we look at compensation, we must of course also look at the revenues of the railway companies, both SNCB and Infrabel. I have put questions about the financial impact of the corona crisis on both SNCB and Infrabel. What is the impact on the financial health of both companies? To what extent is the government in consultation with the railway companies in order to come up with adapted business plans? Finally, I have a question about infrastructure. In Flanders the initiative has been taken to intensify the road works, because it is now quiet on the roads. This period is actually very suitable for achieving more road works, insofar as they can of course be realized in a responsible way, with respect for social-distanting rules. Is such an initiative also possible for planned rail infrastructure? What is the current state of play on current work? Are they being carried out or are they being stopped? Is it possible to realize certain works now, because there are fewer trains? Mr President, so much for a brief summary of the three questions I tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u32	How much less revenue does SNCB have at its other sources of revenue? (e.g. B-parking)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u33	Mr President, I would like to ask my question, since new elements have emerged from the moment I introduced my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u34	Please. It's your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u35	Minister, as is well known, the supply of trains has been adapted as a result of containment measures. The rate of occupancy of trains today is 4%. Those who continue to drive must do so under optimal hygiene conditions for commuters who still continue to take the train, often because they have no other choice. This leads me to the question of how to disinfect trains, but also of the protective equipment made available to rolling personnel and train attendants, both today in this period of containment and during the period of deconfinition to which we are heading, as soon as possible, I hope. In this regard, the SNCB spokeswoman recently explained that train cleaning takes place every day, with particular attention to tablets, handles, etc., that, therefore, SNCB is following the recommendations made to it by the Public Health FPS. If a train, for any reason, cannot be cleaned according to the required conditions, it simply does not leave the next day. For his part, the spokesperson for the Supreme Council of Health announced that guidelines were being implemented with hygienists from the Federal Crisis Centre to see how far we should go in the general measures that are already in place. Minister, have these directives been given? Do you advocate the inclusion in the law of the obligation to disinfect public transport vehicles every day, in any case during the crisis, as France did for example? Are hydro-alcoholic gels and protective masks generally available to staff and train attendants? This has been mentioned by colleagues, but it seems essential to me. Has this issue been raised in the Senior Council for Prevention and Protection at Work? Do you confirm that the disinfection of trains takes place every day? Was this decision made on your own initiative or at the initiative of SNCB on its own initiative? Which company is responsible for this disinfection? How was it designated? Can we ensure that this disinfection of trains will continue to be ensured during deconfining?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u36	Mr. President, Minister, at the request of the government, the SNCB is currently operating a train service of national interest. First of all, on behalf of my Group, I would like to highlight and highlight the work done by all the personnel active in the Belgian railway sector. Their work is fundamental in the global context of fighting the coronavirus pandemic. Indeed, SNCB must provide an efficient and adapted service despite a drastic reduction in its usual passengers: between 90 000 and 100 000 people per day transit, for an occupancy rate of 4 to 5 %. This situation requires crucial adjustments in the supply, taking into account a reduction in the number of available staff. Furthermore, according to Ms Dutordoir's statements, SNCB announces losses of at least EUR 70 million per month. This amount seems to be an estimate that does not take into account the repayment proposals mentioned by certain groups. According to 2018 figures, SNCB could still count on more than 800 million euros of revenue and paid Infrabel more than 680 million euros. Minister, do you confirm the data provided by Ms. Durtordoir? How much additional expenditure has SNCB had to incur so far? Is a more complete estimate already possible? Infrabel spoke little about the subject, but are there figures for it? Can the impact be considered to be similar? Are you already considering measures to limit the impact on those public enterprises that provide, at a loss, an essential service for society? How are discussions within the government taking place with the companies concerned? Finally, how do you evaluate the operation of the train service of national interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u37	Mr President, in the face of these many questions, I will try to be as complete as possible, knowing that the situation is changing from day to day. I heard a colleague ask, "What are we going to do?" We don't know yet. We will wait for the proposals of the Group of Ten and see what the scenarios of deconfinity will be. On the basis of this, we will consider, at the level of companies, how we will have to act on the basis of the recommendations. I would also like to tell you that we are probably the railway transport company which today guarantees the most trains compared to the neighbouring countries and many European countries, most of which have reduced the supply of trains by 40, 50, 60 or 75 %. The system that has been put in place, the service of trains of national interest, is robust and holding up. It has been adjusted at the request of a number of important care providers, hospitals. As a result, some adjustments have been made to meet the transportation needs of many health-care workers who still wish to have trains. At the outset, I would like to welcome this work carried out on the initiative of SNCB and Infrabel and that of the railway companies. The latter have always been on the rendezvous in times like these. Of course, arrangements have been made within the company in a number of departments. I will give you a few explanations, but first of all I would like to pay tribute to all those people who, on a daily basis, are always at work and ensure the proper functioning of rail transport. Tomorrow, we will see what will be done and how we will have to organize it according to the recommendations of the deconfinement. I now turn to the hygiene and protection measures for travellers and staff in the context of the fight against coronavirus in SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. Both the safety of rail transport and the safety of customers and staff are and will remain absolute priorities for SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. Within the railways, the situation is managed daily by a steering committee, following closely the federal regulations and the recommendations of the Public Health Office. Many measures have been implemented to protect employees while ensuring continuity of service to the public. Thus, the organisation of work has been adapted to the particular circumstances we know, whether it is through the use of telework where it is possible or in compliance with social distancing measures for persons present at their workplace. For some functions protection measures have also been introduced; I will come back to that. Staff are constantly informed through communications on the intranet site by their hierarchy and by their trade union organisations. Customers are informed via the website and the applications of SNCB and other channels, such as messages in the stations or on the screens in the trains. The measures taken with regard to staff in contact with clients are as follows. At present, the control of transport tickets is being carried out visually. The sale of tickets on board trains is no longer offered. Customers are invited to pay electronically. Staff are asked to avoid any physical contact and to apply the social distancing instructions issued by the authorities. The cleaning procedures for the facilities for the employees who are in contact with our customers in the first line, such as the agents of Securail, are closely monitored. Handles are also provided for all occupational categories of the first line. The cleaning and hygiene measures are as follows. First, the presence of water and soap on board is required. In addition, all train driving stations are cleaned daily with detergent. In addition, the driver has a detergent spray to clean up the driving station, if he wishes. The interior of all trains is also cleaned every day in the same way. As such, special attention is paid to tablets, handles and door buttons, garbage cans, toilets, etc. – In short, as many objects as you often touch. With regard to the cleanliness of the compartments, garbage disposal and floor cleaning are ensured. All administrative and operational buildings are cleaned daily, with particular attention to common areas. Stations are cleaned daily – and even several times a day where the influx is greater. Particular attention is given to ramps, automatons and toilets. Hand gel is provided for all categories of front-line personnel. The purchase of cleaning products, hand gel, etc. is closely monitored. The air distribution systems in SNCB's vehicles are designed according to the shared European standards in order to achieve an optimal balance between the energy consumption of the system and the ergonomics, well-being and health of its passengers. The monitoring of air treatment systems, the replacement of the filter elements, and the repair of the technical defects shall be carried out in accordance with the maintenance rules, which shall ensure the well-being and health of passengers and staff on board SNCB's trains. As far as the workshops are concerned, in some works in the studios, social distancing can easily be respected. This is not the case with other technical interventions. Specific guidelines were issued for these activities where possible and, where available, face shields are used as protection. In the case of windows, the decision on the temporary and exceptional closure of windows takes into account both the significant decrease in station and train use, a high rate of absenteeism due to illness among staff members and their subcontractors, and the service of trains of national interest, which has been in operation since 23 March 2020, but also and above all the health of all customers and staff. The windows remain open at 70 stations geographically spread throughout the country. Some windows are temporarily closed. This applies in total to the windows of 65 stations. Stations where windows are usually open until an hour later close at 7 p.m. SNCB recalls all other possible modes of purchase of transport tickets: sales machines, its website or the SNCB application. In view of the seriousness of the situation and the preventive measures taken, inter alia, by the medical services, there was indeed a significant increase in absenteeism among railway undertakings, as in the case of all companies in Belgium. Fully in consultation with the federal government, this has led, inter alia, to the introduction of a train service of general interest, in order to reduce the burden on the teams still available and also to take into account the reduced demand for transport due to the lockdown. The number of corona contaminations on the railways are confidential data covered by medical secrecy. In the event of suspected contamination, the service concerned shall be informed in order to be able to follow the instructions of a public authority. The presence of Securail agents in the field, particularly at railway stations, is maintained, in order to continue to ensure the safety of all. Finally, Infrabel also took the decision to gradually put all its construction sites on hold, with the exception of the work essential to the fulfilment of its tasks. Most suppliers, concrete power plants, etc., are closed in the country. As soon as these were major civil engineering sites, the materials needed to continue the construction site were no longer available. The essential work is, on the one hand, the maintenance of the railway network and the urgent renewal of the railway infrastructure and, on the other hand, the deployment on the ground of mobile intervention teams to carry out possible repairs where necessary and indispensable. In order to ensure that customers across the country receive a train offer and to provide a response to the absenteeism of railway staff and suppliers, SNCB and Infrabel have been implementing a train service of national interest since 23 March, in consultation with the government. This means that, in order to comply with the rules on public health, trains are assembled to the maximum, giving the number of seats offered twice the capacity requested, and all trains are cleaned before they return to service. For example, passengers can take the train for essential movements under the safest public health conditions and taking into account the recommended physical distance between them. The plan foresees that the train offer corresponds to approximately 75% of the number of seats available on a normal weekday. In this way, demand is more than met. The average capacity utilisation rate is currently around 5%. The customer remains central, as the train service of national interest avoids the real-time and unannounced cancellation of trains and thus overcrowding of the trains that do. This is the main reason for the plan, namely a predictable and robust supply throughout the country. The decision taken is in line with that of other European railway companies. SNCB has contacted all its business-to-business customers who hold a large number of subscriptions, some of which are active in key sectors, to inform them of the train service of general interest. On this basis, and provided a critical mass of passengers to allow additional trains to run, it was decided to make adjustments and extend the evening shift for those working in shifts in the distribution and health sector. All requests in this respect shall be examined by any means necessary. Changes have already been made to some lines and to some customers, where this was technically and operationally possible. The commuter associations TreinTramBus and Navetteurs.be were informed beforehand by SNCB of the train service of general interest. As regards the impact of the coronavirus on the cooperation between Infrabel and various freight operators, Infrabel organised a conference call with the entire sector from the start of the crisis, including freight transport, high-speed transport, SNCB, the FPS Mobility and the Regulatory Service, to discuss together the evolution of absenteeism and traffic prospects for the following weeks. Afterwards, individual consultations were also held with each freight operator. I will move on to questions relating to the carriage of freight by rail. As far as the continuity of rail freight transport is concerned, all necessary steps are taken to ensure that rail transport can remain operational. The necessary measures will be taken through a legislative proposal. I support the extension of the validity of certificates and licences of train drivers and safety personnel. At the request of the sector, the possibilities of temporary rest facilities outside the home are also examined. This requires consultation with the social partners. Parliament will soon consider this adjustment. Train drivers were already assigned to the vital professions by means of the Ministerial Decision of 18 March 2020 laying down urgent measures. Coordinated management at European level is essential. We regularly remind ourselves of this in our contacts with our colleagues and the European Commission. Traffic management also deserves our attention to ensure the smooth passage of national and international freight trains. Infrabel, for his part, makes every effort to ensure the flow of all types of transport. The first emergency is to ensure that the licences and authorizations of safety personnel, particularly drivers and train attendants, which would expire and cannot be renewed for the time being, are valid, given the suspension of training and examinations. Without quick action, approximately 100 drivers per month would lose their licence. In such a scenario, it is the whole Belgian rail, freight and passengers, which would end up very quickly at the stop. We must therefore temporarily depart from the various legislations in order to maintain the validity of the licences and authorisations of security personnel. The second urgency is to ensure the fluidity of freight transport operations with neighbouring countries currently experiencing disruption. This is why freight transport may become a priority over other traffic, in order to ensure smooth movement at borders and beyond for international transport. These provisions are vital in order to maintain our health and food supply capabilities. Safeguards are provided to safeguard the running rights of passenger trains. It will be open to companies and trade unions to conclude a social agreement allowing the dismantling of two consecutive days – instead of one, at present – in the case of international traffic. This measure authorised by European law, applied in Germany and the Netherlands, is not yet permitted in Belgium. This temporary provision must be firmly linked to the principle of prior social consultation. In addition, in view of the urgency of health and the need to enforce social distancing measures, a provisional derogation from the Language Use Act is also provided for within the temporal limits of the VOCID-19 crisis. It aims to ensure that SNCB can communicate in all three national languages, but also in English, in order to ensure efficient information for the benefit of all users, but also to guarantee the safety of railway personnel. With regard to combined and distributed transport subsidies, I am in favour of extending the existing aid measures in 2021, pending the introduction of new aid measures currently under consideration. The freight transport sector is likely to be affected by the decline in economic activities on a sustainable basis. It is already suffering significant losses as a result of the cancellation of traffic, with the cessation of various industries. The sector will have to deal with the consequences of the economic backlash and at the same time risks being deprived of the subsidies from which it benefited. This activity is essential for the resumption of other activities and therefore employment in our seaports and in our major national industrial sectors, such as the chemical industry or the automotive sector. The current aid system ends at the end of this year. Given that government resources have been focused in recent weeks on managing the CODID-19 crisis, there is a great risk that a new aid system, beyond 2020, will not be put in place when the sector needs it most. That is why you will be proposed, through a bill, to extend the current aid mechanism by one year. This extension will give the sector stability guarantees and visibility over medium-term financial resources. The sector must be able to negotiate quickly with its donors, with aid as guarantees. As regards the procedure with the European Commission, the Mobility and Transport FPS will establish the necessary contacts with the European Commission's services as soon as a decision has been taken at Belgian level. However, we must bear in mind that the implementation of this extension will depend on a prior decision by the European Commission's competition services. Given the slow functioning of the public institutions, including the European institutions, it is essential that we take a decision without delay, at the risk of exceeding the deadline of 31 December without a new regime. For combined transport, 165,966 intermodal transport units were subsidised in 2019, corresponding to the number of trucks avoided on the road. There were 112,139 wagons or about six million tonnes subsidised for the distribution of transport in 2019. This amounts to about 200,000 trucks on our roads. As regards the questions about the path fee, Infrabel analyses the financial impact of the current crisis affecting all areas of business and business. Different scenarios for reimbursement will also be integrated into this analysis. A decision on this can only be global in the context of the measures related to the end of the crisis in order to ensure a long-term balance in the sector. And linear reduction of the infrastructure charge is seen as state aid. Prior authorisation from the European Commission is therefore necessary. As regards the questions on general aid measures for the sector, the government has taken economic and fiscal measures to reduce the burden on transport companies by postponing payment or accelerated reimbursement. As regards the question of the supply of goods to businesses and consumers as a result of the corona crisis, road transport companies will be able to use general measures at federal level. Since the sixth state reform, access to the profession and to the market in goods transport has been a regional competence. This undertaking must, as a matter of priority, address the regions for specific measures. With regard to PMR assistance in times of coronavirus crisis, in addition to the measure imposed by the authorities to stay at home as much as possible and to travel only for essential needs, another key measure to be respected is the social distancing of 1.5 metres between people living outside the same home. As you know, this measure is essential to try to minimize the spread of coronavirus and to prevent hospitals from finding themselves in a critical situation. Therefore, SNCB has decided not to provide assistance to persons with disabilities or reduced mobility. That measure shall be taken in the interests of both customers and staff. In fact, SNCB staff are unable to provide adequate protection during the provision of assistance. They cannot, in particular, keep sufficient distance. SNCB has informed the passenger associations and other associations with which it maintains regular contacts in the context of the problem of accessibility of persons with reduced mobility in order to clarify the ins and outs of this decision, which is dictated by the current situation. The support service will be reactivated as soon as the VOCID-19 context permits. Like Belgium, most European countries are taking similar measures with regard to the provision of normal-time services to persons with disabilities in terms of mobility. Clients who had already booked assistance were contacted personally to inform them of the suspension of the assistance. They have, in general, been very understanding. Most of them also expressed appreciation for being informed personally. SNCB informs me that the number of requests for assistance has fallen rapidly. The general trend is that customers with reduced mobility, like all other customers, have had to refrain from travelling in the context of the security measures prescribed by the government. SNCB does not have any new reservations at the moment. However, SNCB still receives a number of questions and explains the measures taken to each of its interlocutors, which are understanding. With regard to questions concerning the validity of subscriptions and other passes, the SNCB informs me that train tickets and subscriptions can be refunded according to the usual conditions of sale and via the refund application form on the SNCB website. As a result, customers already have important opportunities. This also applies to the three other public transport companies, in particular De Lijn, STIB and TEC, with which SNCB cooperates closely, even during this period. SNCB is aware of the various questions which arise and which will have to be answered in the context of socio-economic measures. If measures were to be taken, they should be taken in full cooperation with other public transport companies and at the end of the crisis period. As regards the impact of the coronavirus on the tenants of the commercial premises at SNCB's stations, the operation of these trading premises belongs to the commercial autonomy of SNCB. SNCB informs me that, to the extent possible, it is making every effort to support the concessionaires in these difficult times. For example, it has decided to suspend the billing of the commission for energy consumption, such as water and electricity. This suspension took effect on 1 April. The final account will then be invoiced at the appropriate time. It should also be noted that the federal government has taken socio-economic measures to support companies suffering from the crisis. As regards the financial impact of the crisis on SNCB and Infrabel, as in all sectors, public transport is very much affected by the pandemic crisis. At present, Infrabel carries out the various analyses necessary to quantify the financial impact of this crisis. SNCB informs me that, in the current circumstances, according to an initial estimate, it misses some EUR 70 million per month in commercial revenues. More detailed figures are not yet available. It is already clear, in view of the reduction in traffic on the network, and the need to stop many construction sites, that the price to be paid by the rail sector will be important. On the one hand, the loss of profits is already substantial for the infrastructure manager, and on the other hand, the gradual resumption of the activity in an uncertain context will inevitably lead to additional costs. This reboot will also take place in a weakened economic system, which will have a double impact on the transport sector. In any event, analyses of the financial consequences can only lead to temporary data, since we all know that the current crisis is unfortunately expected to last and make its very negative effects felt over the coming months. With regard to economic impacts on domestic passenger traffic, the consequences of the current crisis on train demand will depend directly on the government's decisions on deconfining, and in particular on the date on which the normal train service will be reinstated, provided that the absenteeism rates within Infrabel and SNCB are stabilised at a level allowing such traffic. With regard to freight traffic and the number of trains, it can be seen that the current traffic is around 80 to 85 per cent of normal traffic. This is a good level of maintenance of freight traffic, compared to what is happening in other important countries in Europe. The rail sector thus fulfils its central role in the country's supply and economy. A return to higher traffic will also depend on the de-confinination measures and the recovery of the various sectors of the economy in Belgium and the other countries. I would like to inform you, for example, that the ports of Antwerp, Ghent and Zeebrugge have their storage capacity filled. Indeed, Belgian companies which continue to operate carry goods there which must go abroad. In addition, there are also goods that have left abroad and must come to us, but to be directed to industries that are at a standstill. So storage capacities have reached their critical level in Belgian ports. Managing this does not come under my jurisdiction, but with Infrabel, we try to find available plots of Infrabel along the tracks, so that the ports can dispose of it. I turn to HR Rail's commitments within railway companies, and to the involvement of HR Rail's medical staff in the fight against coronavirus. HR Rail lets me know that the selection and recruitment of new employees is completely digital All selection steps, with the exception of medical research, are digital. The interviews are organised by telephone and with video interviews. For some twenty specific and non-priority jobs, the selection procedure and recruitment are temporarily suspended. The operational professions are not affected. The selection and recruitment of technicians, train drivers, train escorts, station staff, track crews, staff in the signalling stations are simply continued. The switch to digital selection and recruitment resulted in a delay of two weeks. SNCB informs me that there are currently no staff shortages in the field caused by the effect of the corona virus on recruitment. SNCB services continue to operate, albeit with limited presence of staff due to illness and reduced demand, with respect for the rules of social distance and protective equipment. HR Rail lets me know that she currently employs 34 nurses, doctors or other medical staff. The doctors and nurses were asked whether they wanted to commit themselves on a voluntary basis to combating the coronavirus; 17% of doctors and 67% of nurses already do so on a voluntary basis. HR Rail contracted staff on mission to assist on a voluntary basis and with permission under COVID-19 shall be covered for accidents at work. However, if the nursing staff gets the disease, it will be taken back in the context of the occupational diseases announced by Fedris. As for the impact of corona on the rail works, Infrabel lets me know that the vast majority of the rail works are currently shut down. Indeed, the new social distance obligations do not allow these works to be carried out. Moreover, the crisis is putting pressure on supply channels, making a number of materials unavailable. Finally, many entrepreneurs fail to fulfil their obligations. In view of the number of works carried out by the infrastructure manager, and their size, there is, of course, a significant cost impact on the closure. However, these works are necessary, whether they relate to maintenance, extension or renewal. In any case, they will have to be completed in the future. Rebooting it will cost Infrabel more again. It is well known that the fragmentation of the implementation of the yards costs far more than when the various phases are carried out without delay. If certain works are able to progress, because they are urgent and essential for the fulfilment of the tasks as infrastructure manager, then there is also a higher and even higher cost factor, partly due to the new obligations in force and the scarcity of certain materials. The elements currently available to Infrabel do not make it possible to get a good picture of the impact of the crisis on the implementation of rail investment, but it is certain that a higher price will have to be paid for this. As soon as the phasing-out of the restrictive measures is launched, Infrabel will make every effort to re-plan the works that have been postponed as soon as possible and if possible by 2020. Only then will one have a clear picture of the impact of the crisis on the investment works carried out by Infrabel. Mr. President, I've been a long time. I tried to answer all the questions. I am at the disposal of our colleagues in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I imagine colleagues will join me and express it as well. I don't think you've been particularly long. I expected more. It was quite reasonable, given the number of questions and the diversity of topics addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, the replies are in principle a minute. I found that everyone was well disciplined. There's been no problem so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I would like to underline two more things. Firstly, can you, together with Securail, ensure that the controls at the source are dealt with so that people who do not have to travel and who do not belong on the train do not leave? I hear there's been incidents on the train. Safety for staff has been reduced, and fewer people are on the train and social control is also less good. Therefore, the checks would be better done in advance, before people board the train. The train is now only for the people who have to take the train, especially to work and for necessary movements, Secondly, can you ensure that those services that do not do essential work do not have to work? I notice that in studios people perform jobs that are not necessary, so social distancing is not respected there. In all services where work is carried out, people must be well protected so that the virus can be combated properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers to the many questions. I am pleased to hear that SNCB, Infrabel, HR Rail and all the other railway authorities are trying to deal with this crisis with man and power. I note additional efforts in the areas of personnel policy, hygiene, operation in the stations and so on. Despite your detailed answer, some questions were not answered, including questions about hygiene. I'll take them back through written questions. That seems to me to be the most functional. The only question I have left for you, Minister, is until when the train service of general interest is planned? Are there any extensions planned? If so, until when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u41	Mr Minister, I have heard a lot of good things in your comprehensive answer, something has really happened. However, I am still a little hungry about the possible scenario of restarting the train. I do not want to pre-empt the situation too far, but I would like to urge you not to just sit back and listen to the advice of the higher authorities and experts. SNCB must also work hard to prepare for this, which it will undoubtedly do. I would like to make one specific point. It is about something that is a great concern on the ground, especially with train drivers, as social distancing on the train is not always self-evident. The main concern of the train guides is to ensure that they are adequately protected, gloves and mouth masks. I know that the theme of mouth masks is a difficult theme and that many professional categories want and need mouth masks. However, can SNCB exert pressure or take the necessary steps to provide mouth masks against rebooting for train escorts, because they are really asking parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u42	Minister, in your comprehensive reply I have heard many good things about matters that have already been carried out and that have already been discussed between the various parties involved. So positive things have already been achieved, but it will be important that the issues that are or should be in the pipeline are dealt with fairly quickly to very quickly. After all, I must not tell you that it is a special situation. It's five to twelve. In the post-corona crisis era, many of these questions from the freight sector will remain topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u43	Minister, it is clear that we must make it as easy as possible for the people who are running our country. In this respect, this means smooth public transport at times that make sense to them. That is why I was very pleased to hear that the train service of national interest has tried to respond to their needs. Secondly, the European regulation on passenger rights states that persons with reduced mobility have the same rights as all other citizens. Despite the understanding of the decision taken, I still wonder whether SNCB cannot look at other measures to ensure that people with reduced mobility can still take the train, for example extending the reservation period or providing protective clothing for the employees of the PBM service. It is important for rail freight companies to see a new perspective, which you have also stressed in your reply, as they are seeing more and more orders cancelled and additional costs incurred. I am therefore very pleased to hear that various measures will be taken to support the sector, such as the extension of aid measures, and that a legislative proposal will be prepared for this. Finally, extending the expiry date of the multi-driving passes is actually the logic of our group. In our view, it will allow people after a long period of time to get back on the road in their own country. That is why I am pleased that SNCB will continue to talk to the other entities that offer public transport services in our country and would like to think about extending the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u44	Minister, thank you for these answers. Of course, our group is sending a message of encouragement and respect to all these railway operators that allow us to maintain services for our railways. I am also pleased to be able to reassure commuters about the reimbursement of their subscriptions. If we are all waiting for the road to a serene and judicious deconfinement, I invite you, Minister, to pay particular attention to the safety of the railwaymen who will always be on the front line during the post-COVID deconfinement process. Thank you and wish you all a good end of the day. Take care of yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs Hanus, for your message, which is of course shared by everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. Maybe I was waiting for a little more details. But it must be recognized that the situation is delicate and unprecedented. We are finally brought to be innovative. We must reconcile the protection of workers and continue to provide a public service. This is probably the difficulty of the crisis we are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your long presentation. I must confess that I am not entirely satisfied with the answer I have received. After all, there is a very strong focus on the responses from SNCB and Infrabel, where the answers are introduced with the words: 'NMBS lets you know that...' or 'Infrabel lets you know that...' However, a commitment from the minister, the government and the government can be expected in many respects. For example, for the compensation of passengers or the extension of multi-passes, part of the public transport companies can be looked at. Those transport companies are also negotiating this together. However, they also remain public enterprises with a business plan, which is or was approved by the government. Public transport companies are now facing a situation of force majeure as well as a lot of financial losses, partly due to the necessary measures taken by the government. However, at such a time, I expect a minister and guardian minister to sit down with the public transport company to see how this will be dealt with. What is its impact on the business plan? What's the impact on the traveler? How can compensation be worked out for this? It is a little easy to look only at the public transport companies themselves. The public authorities and the public transport companies must together draw up certain proposals and compensatory measures for this purpose. A greater commitment can be expected in this respect. We look forward to additional measures in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u48	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer to the many questions put by the other Members. I am certainly pleased that SNCB has been able to continue to provide basic services with maximum protection for its own employees. Indeed, it is now looking forward to the way in which our public transport company, which is the backbone of the alternative to the car, will engage in the exit strategy, which we hope will soon see. That is why Mr Van den Bergh has rightly made a point that we, or at least the government, will have to provide a number of financial responses. The new transport plan has been approved. I wonder how we will roll that out in the current financial context. There is also compensation for the good customers of SNCB, who have not been able to make full use of their subscriptions or other transport tickets due to the force majeure situation. Mr President, the debate will certainly continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u49	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers, as usual. I thank you all the more because they are particularly reassuring both for the staff of SNCB – which I also thank and whose dedication and professionalism I welcome in these difficult times – and for the commuters who need to be transparent about the measures put in place to clean trains and to offer protective equipment to staff in order to protect them, but also to customers. On the other hand, I didn't hear you about the disinfecting of trains once the deconfining started. I understand that this strategy could be reviewed in the light of the scenario of deconfination that has been chosen. It is known that an expert group is currently working on this issue. Still, you insisted that the purpose of the disinfection of trains was to ensure the safety of commuters. I hope that this clean-up will always take place when containment is no longer rigorous, especially since it will then be necessary to live with this virus in all public spaces, including public transport and therefore on trains. Therefore, I call on you, Minister, to continue your efforts in this area once the deconfinition has been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. It is clear that both SNCB and Infrabel are making considerable efforts in this time of crisis, for which, of course, thanks. I understand that measures are being taken because of the corona crisis, but the complete cessation of services for people with disabilities or disabilities seems to me to be a dramatic measure, especially in comparison with the solutions that De Lijn, the NS and the German transport companies were seeking, while providing services for people with disabilities. I think it is important to learn lessons from this for the future. I can also conclude from your reply that a lot of work has been delayed. In this context, I would like to express my concern about the impact of delays on the electrification of the Mol-Hamont railway line. The timing of achieving the transport plan-2020 was already very sharp and I wonder to what extent that timing is still feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. The stability of railway undertakings will therefore be a key focus for the government. I am confident that together with your colleagues, you will take the necessary action to cushion the impact of this crisis. I wish you all the courage to approach it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u52	Mr President, I still wish to answer two questions which have been put to me. As far as the definition is concerned, it will be based on what the group of ten is going to suggest. There are several models. In some countries, schools are reopened, in others, everything is reopened. We want to trust the experts in the way forward and if we follow this path, each player will have to implement the necessary measures in his sector. There are a number of possible deconfining scenarios and, depending on the validated scenario, measures will need to be considered in each of the sectors, including SNCB and Infrabel. Transport is an essential element and, I would point out, we have maintained the largest number of seats in relation to neighbouring countries. As far as compensation is concerned, the four public transport companies have decided to work together on how to do things. For example, 80-90% of home-to-work subscriptions are covered by employers. In a model of consultation, you will allow me to discuss with employers how they see things. It takes a little time for people to talk to each other and consider the best solution. There will be an intervention, of course, but we must be aware that those who want to be reimbursed for annual subscriptions can already do so under the general conditions. There are monthly, quarterly, annual, school subscriptions, a whole series of products. Each public transport company must be given time to study the situation and then to act together. The decision must be comprehensive so that those who take a bus, a metro, a train benefit from the same arrangement, regardless of the transport company. Maybe it's a little complicated, but just give it some time. The first measures were different from those. Requests are made, they are considered. These are the two comments I wanted to add. In my reply, you also heard that a bill would come to the benches of Parliament. I hope that it will be taken into consideration tomorrow. I invite everyone to make the difference between urgency and less urgent things. What is urgent is that today there are 100 fewer train drivers per month if we do not quickly take a measure that suspends the deadlines. As for freight transport, it is imperative to guarantee that for the 2021 budget, it can benefit from the same rule as applied in 2017, 2019 and 2020, because we will not have the time, this year, to establish a new model. I am paying attention, and I am counting on everyone, to endorse the text. You'll see it, it's purely technical, it's extension of time, it's the temporary driver's license, etc. There is an urgent need, and I hope that we can move forward very quickly, Mr President and dear members of the committee. Other texts will come later, proposals will be made. We've been talking about it. But they are less urgent. But what will happen on Parliament's benches, I ask you to be able to approve them as soon as possible in the interest of maintaining rail traffic in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u53	Mr Minister, I am obviously quite available to convene the committee as soon as this is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u54	Mr President, Minister, as regards the duration of the train service of national interest, you say that you will follow the advice of the experts on this matter and that you will not put the timing first. I understand that attitude, but for the establishment of that train service of national interest itself, you need to be guided much less by experts. I think it is important that we continue to evaluate this system. Of course, it is an ad hoc solution, a pragmatic solution which SNCB is trying to address this particular situation, but it is seen that the supply is not always and everywhere tailored to the needs. There are lines where they have been cut down quite drastically, which sometimes causes tightness and difficulties. You yourself referred to reduced mobility, including for people who work in shifts, such as in healthcare, but you also see the opposite, with lines where there is still capacity left. Let us hope that the situation will normalise as soon as possible, but as long as this system remains in place, I think it is important to continue to evaluate this over the next few weeks and months and to continue looking for improvements. This also applies to adapted services for people with reduced mobility. You are right to talk about the risks of infection and the need for social distancing, but there may also be pragmatic solutions there that can help wheelchair patients and ensure access to this essential service, without exposing them to danger. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the employees of SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail for their unwavering commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I would like to echo Mr Roggeman's last words and thank everyone who is active in the field. I would also like to echo the words of thanks that have just been expressed in relation to the services of the Chamber which make it possible to work in this way. It is very good that we can take up our control function in this way. Finally, as regards the addition of the Minister, I would like to thank him for his commitment to come forward with proposals and solutions in the near future, in consultation with the other public transport companies. I think this is an important signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic144x.u56	Mr Minister, I obviously join in the tribute that is paid by all our colleagues and by you to all the workers of the two public companies that we spoke about this afternoon. Here we are in the debate on the railway, on the railwaymen and on all the trades that this includes. I think they are making an important mission for the population because they are transporting nurses and all the workers who are providing so-called essential services to the population. There is a need to supply essential shops and services and also to transport all other workers. I believe that what is important is that the appropriate services, as you mentioned them, should be the subject of consultation with the workers' representatives themselves, because they do not ultimately work without risk. Their work is essential to the proper functioning of society. No one should risk their health, or even their life, by going to work. We know that there is a certain risk in the collective interest, but it must be truly recognized as such. That is what every colleague has expressed here by taking as many precautions as possible, of course, as they can be taken. I also associate myself with your thanks for all the visible and non-visible services of the House. There are those who are here in the room or behind the windows (translation, technical service, secretariat, etc.) and those who are not visible but still allow us to come together. For a first video conference, I think it worked well. There have not really been any problems, and I would like to thank all the members of the services for that. Finally, Minister, thank you for being available to answer the questions. The most important thing today is that colleagues leave with answers in the state where you can give them, of course. We will all be attentive as a result of the events. Taking the dedicated formula, take care of yourself and your loved ones!
