ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall first give the floor to Mr Samyn for her question on seasonal workers. Then we will give each fraction, in order of size, the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u2	Mr President, Minister, Belgian farmers have repeatedly raised the alarm because they are currently unable to call on seasonal foreign workers because of COOVID-19. The federal government therefore decided to double the number of days on which a person can work as a seasonal employee for the year 2020 to 130 days instead of 65. In addition, people who are now temporarily unemployed can work as occasional workers in agriculture and horticulture while retaining 75% of their benefit. Despite these measures, this vital sector has not yet been reassured and will not be sufficient to meet labour needs. It is not only the harvest that worries the farmers, they must be able to sell the harvest. For example, the sector is concerned about the export of products abroad. In the interior, too, the reduction of asparagus, for example, has been reduced by the closure of the catering industry. Because harvesting costs money and farmers are not sure of a market, in some cases the harvest is not fully harvested. Madam Minister, the measure whereby 75% of the temporary unemployment benefit can be combined with a seasonal wage is, in principle, applicable from 1 April and is announced as being already in force. However, this measure was still before the Council of State for its opinion last week. Has that advice been issued or when do you expect it to be issued? When will that measure enter into force effectively? Does this happen with retroactive effect? If the Council of State delivers a negative opinion, will it be followed? Was the communication released possibly premature? Will the government decide unilaterally to implement this measure after all? If the measure is not implemented, but the technical unemployed are already working in the sector, do they not risk losing their technical unemployment benefit? Can farmers be assured that they will receive a sufficiently high price for their harvest and, if not, that there will be compensation if they do not lose their crops so that investments made can be repaid? In the European competition to get as many seasonal workers as possible on the ground, German farmers have apparently already chartered aircraft. The media says that our farmers may want to do the same. Do you think that's plausible? How should the safety measures, such as social discrimination, be applied to seasonal workers? If foreign workers are brought here, a first condition seems to me of course to be that they are tested beforehand in their country of origin and, if necessary, again at their arrival here. About the place of residence, if it turns out that farmers on the spot cannot immediately guarantee safe reception, will the FPS Economy help to find a solution, for example by demanding holiday parks and providing housing containers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also concerned about seasonal workers. I will not go back to the number of people involved since we know him. The current crisis prevents seasonal workers from fulfilling their duties, because many are blocked abroad, and therefore endangers the harvests of our farmers. In a few weeks, however, we know that they will intensify. I understand the need to offer additional working days to foreign seasonal workers already present in the territory. Similarly, I understand the relaxation measures that have been decided. Nevertheless, I wonder in some respects. Seasonal work works by peaks, according to harvests and seasons. Therefore, what is the usefulness of the temporary doubling of the contingents of casual workers in this sector? As such, Alain Detemmerman, co-president of the FGTB (HORVAL branch) recently reminded the press that "if it takes 20,000 people to pick up apples and pears and there are only 10,000 available, the fruits will not stay on the tree two more weeks, the time for the work to be completed". I therefore wonder about the contribution and the real usefulness of this point of the Order. An alternative would be to hire Belgian labour. The aim is to find ad hoc solutions in the particular climate of the VOCID-19 crisis. There is also a deficit in the labour force, which comes mostly from foreign countries: 80% of seasonal workers come from other countries. So why not pay more attention to the Belgian workforce, which now accounts for 20% in normal times? You know that the lack to fill is crying and time is running out. Today, part of the population is at a standstill or even looking for work. This is the case for many people who are temporarily unemployed. I am also thinking of those Horeca jobists who are now without income. They could find a solution in seasonal work. Has this track been considered? Finally, I would like to point out that despite this urgency, we will remain attentive to the duration of these changes over time because these are exceptional measures linked to a context that is just as so. It is therefore imperative that this order be limited to the crisis and end in December 2020. As has been repeatedly pointed out, social dialogue is an important element and I regret once again the lack of dialogue with the sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u4	I had overlooked Mr Houtmeyers for the N-VA, for which I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u5	Mr President, I shall be brief. We too wish to fully support the measure to extend the opportunity work. We are convinced that additional measures are urgently needed for students and the temporary unemployed, otherwise we will be in serious trouble. Hence the question of when to expect this publication. Just a little more. We must certainly ensure that technical unemployment is not abused, as we read in the newspapers last weekend. Finally, I can only hope that the reopening of our society will be more orderly than what we saw last week, including in terms of communication and clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, we obviously support this proposal. We know that this sector is highly demanding. I would like to ask myself one question: if it concerns all the fruits, is the harvest of strawberries also planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u7	Yeah, it's planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u8	It's perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u9	Mr President, we welcome the relaxation of the rules for the agricultural and horticultural sector from the beginning of April. This relaxation is very welcome. After all, the foreign workers were very difficult to get here or had chosen to go home on time. Fruit and vegetables do not go into quarantine and continue to grow, so if we can use the helping hands we have better and longer, that is a great asset, for which thanks. I have two questions about the power of attorney decision. Firstly, the scheme is limited in time and ends at the end of 2020. A number of legislative proposals were already under consideration in committee, including CD&V. We had not calculated this limitation in time. Why was this measure limited in time? Can this be adapted if necessary? Secondly, can further efforts be made to improve the match between supply and demand? I'm declaring myself. A number of relaxations were announced. They do work, but there is still a need for labour on the ground. People who had already called the farmers before the relaxation started, do not call back now to do the work they can do now. That is a signal that reaches us from the sector. Perhaps there could be some more awareness or positive advertising about the relaxations that have been decided so that more people would get back to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u10	Mr President, I apologize, I received an important call that I also had to deal with. A number of important decisions have been taken to ensure that there are enough people to harvest the fruit and vegetables in the coming weeks and to ensure that there are no food shortages and local products are not lost. I would also like to say something about increasing the quota for fruit production from 65 to 100 days and doubling it. This is part of a bill that had already been submitted by CD&V and was under discussion in the Social Affairs Committee, following a sectoral agreement. For us, it's important that this comes back. The question was whether this would be extended to soft fruit. After all, the agreement was about the hard fruit. Will this extension be maintained from 65 to 100 days? We shall have to discuss this further in committee. For us, the temporary nature of the measures that have now been taken is very important. Because we have special powers, that also makes sense. In the general scheme, if a person is unemployed and becomes a seasonal worker, the person loses his benefit. The government has announced the possibility of working in the garden and forestry sector for temporarily unemployed workers in a flexible way and without loss of income. What's the status of the KB? Why not allow this exceptional nature for the classic unemployed, the people who were already unemployed? There is a difference in treatment between people who will work as a temporary unemployed person as a seasonal worker and the ordinary unemployed who would lose their benefit. How does the government justify that difference in treatment? As I said, it is very important for us that in these but also in other measures that are still on the table, we are certainly in favour of the proposal to allow temporary unemployed to work in essential sectors, where their hands are needed, we continue to look at the classic labour reserve, i.e. the people who were previously unemployed, and also to give them the opportunity to increase their income and gain work experience. Has Minister Muylle discussed this explicitly with the state ministers? After all, it is up to the state ministers to direct people who were previously unemployed to jobs that now have to be filled. I was also wondering if you could give an update on the announced royal decision on the freezing of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. What stage is that royal decision at about? This is accompanied by the initiatives relating to the eligibility allowance and the artist's status. I also had a question about the following. It is very important, on the one hand, to monitor compliance with the sanitary rules, including in fields and fruit groves. Last week, especially on Twitter, there was a commotion about the news that a large part of the controlled companies received a warning. We have always indicated that most employers are sure to comply with the rules and that we are assuming them. However, it is important that, where this does not happen, rapid action can be taken. Since then, the stories continue to come to me about problems on the work floor. I find it particularly difficult for workers who are not syndicated to find their way, to sue, after which they sometimes get special answers from the Federal Department of Welfare at Work. So they don't really hear about that service. I will put a separate question on that. I just want to point out that it may also be more vulnerable people who are going to fill these jobs and that attention should be paid to them. On the other hand, in order to avoid social dumping and to prevent the displacement of regular jobs, what has been included in this Royal Decree must also be respected. There are measures in the KB that must comply with them, and we are asking very clearly that they should be observed. Has the Minister heard whether sufficient labour is already being found on the ground? This weekend people first heard that temporary unemployed people would lose their benefits and then they wouldn't. Apparently, those people don't call back to the places where there's work. Madam Secretary, do you know to what extent these jobs can be filled in on the ground at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u11	The sp.a can accept the proposed temporary doubling of the maximum number of hours of casual work by 2020. I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mr Willaert. Madam Secretary, why is a distinction made between people with temporary unemployment and ordinary unemployed people? Secondly, how is it arranged for people with temporary unemployment so that they do not lose their benefits? These are my questions, but we can continue to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the labour-intensive sector is waiting very impatiently for this royal decree. It was therefore necessary to relax the conditions for the recruitment of seasonal workers in order not to allow fruit and agricultural crops to rot on the spot. However, as in our country, much of the crop is exported, and the surplus must be made available to food banks. The needs are great and demands for food parcels, particularly at the level of CPAS, are increasing. Unlike others, we believe that it is essential that the application of this measure be limited to the duration of the crisis and not become definitive. I believe that this is in line with a recommendation from the Council of State. This measure must be limited in time and only applicable until the end of the year. It is our responsibility that this matter has already been the subject of a bill by the Open Vld. I know that there is also a CD&V bill, but the two proposals are not consistent. In any event, in our view, a problem arises only during this period of health crisis. A few months ago, an agreement was reached following the social consultation in the horticultural sector. Thus, a royal decree was issued for the doubling of the number of days. Today, the Royal Decree aims to increase the number of days for the fruit sector from 65 to 100 days. With the doubling of the number of days, the number of days thus increases to 200 days for this year. However, the agreement previously reached provided that it applied only to the cultivation of apples and pears. In this case, however, the measure is extended to the whole fruit sector. That doesn't seem right to us. I believe that trade union organisations are opposed to extending this measure to the whole sector. We talked earlier about strawberry cultivation. I would like to know why this royal decree, which aims to double the number of days, to increase the number of occasional days of work from 65 to 100 days, has been incorporated for the whole fruit sector. I would also like to know whether, in relation to this, a specific social dialogue has taken place. In the future, it would be necessary to have a study on the usefulness of seasonal labour and to link these demands to more sustainable and local productions because, today, they are often industrial productions to world markets where prices are low. However, it is well known that the fruit sector is experiencing great difficulties because of this. The current situation with export problems shows the full vulnerability of these crops. In the future, there is a need for more sustainable value-added food production for local markets. This is a longer-term reflection. So, Mr. Chairman, this is what the PTB had to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be very quick. We obviously support the easing measures that have been taken. However, I have two questions, although the information has already been partly disseminated in the press. On the one hand, we realize that, on the part of producers and farmers, there is sometimes a real urgency to have additional labour. And the encounter between those who are ready to work and those who are waiting for labour is not always done. What additional information channels will the government use to ensure that producers and farmers are provided with additional labour as quickly as possible? On the other hand, given the closure of the Horeca, some of the crops may not be sold. Some short circuits have been set up to really go from producer to consumer. But it is not feasible everywhere and, above all, there is no support for it to be carried out in a wider way. Does the government envisage specific aids, support or logistics to enable an alternative sale to be developed and thus prevent part of the production from being sold?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u14	Mr President, following on from Mr Samyn's justified questions, I have a few specific questions about the Royal Decree. The KB itself is constantly talking about fruit growing in general, but very little is said about the labour force in vegetable production. We are right to talk about specific measures in the field of fruit and vegetables, mushroom cultivation and so on, but we are not talking about vegetable production in general. What's the reason for that? One speaks, for example, of a working group on fruit growing set up within the Joint Committee for the horticulture business, but are the measures for farms engaged solely or mainly in vegetable production generally or specifically, for example in tomatoes, asparagus, such as pomelos, the same as for fruit growing? I would like to make that clear. I also have a second question on a case that has already been raised. I understand very well that with this KB people want to keep the seasonal workers here to support the garden and agricultural sector, but there are now a lot of temporary unemployed. Mr Gilissen has already mentioned in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs how to use them to help cope with the labour shortages in agriculture. Then you, Minister Muylle, talked about a platform with which they could be used. I would like a little more explanation on that. How does it work and how does it function? Are there enough offers on that platform? Finally, Mr President, allow me to make the link with the opening of the garden centres, even if it was a ministerial decision. Apart from the fact that this ministerial decision was far too late and that everything was communicated far too late, one can explain, in the context of this Royal Decree, what is the logic behind the distinction that one makes between the large garden centres and the specialty shops, the ornamental growers and the florists, who still have to stay closed and sell garden products as well? I'd like to know what logic that decision can explain. This measure is not always clear. Its communication was also a disaster, but that is a discussion we must have elsewhere. Unclearness was, in any case, a trump card. I am very curious to hear the answers to my other specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u15	Your last question is very interesting. Your last comment, following your question, is also justified. It is not a decision of power of attorney but a ministerial decision within the competence of the respective committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Samyn, I will answer your specific questions later. However, I shall answer many global questions in a global statement. The government has wanted to take measures for the sector. We have tried to do this by means of two instruments, namely measures that have been put into a KB power of attorney and are here today to discuss and additional measures that are taken by a normal royal decision. The reason for the latter is, and certainly the members of the Permanent Committee on Social Affairs know that the Minister of Employment can take measures in the context of unemployment with a normal royal decision and that there is no need for powers of attorney. The measures relating to temporary employment for temporary unemployed persons at 75% for agriculture and horticulture are included in an ordinary royal decree. This Royal Decree also contains measures on the status of artists and the degressivity of unemployment. After consultation with the social partners and the ten parties, this was sent to the Council of State last week, with urgency, i.e. five days. We expect the decision to be taken today or tomorrow. We have asked some questions for an explanation, which were more technical in nature. We assume that we will be able to publish that royal decision in the Belgian Official Journal this week, as soon as it is back from the Council of State. It shall enter into force retroactively from 1 April. In the KB power of attorneys, this concerns the doubling of quotas under the picking card: the number of seasonal work days allowed for agriculture goes from 30 to 60 days, for horticulture from 65 to 130 days and for mushroom and witloof cultivation from 100 to 200 days. In addition, the new quotas for both soft and hard fruit will be increased from 100 days to 200 days. Mrs Pas asked why the KB mandates mainly refer to the fruit sector. This is mainly due to the inclusion of new measures for the fruit sector in the WFD. In this way, we will double the quotas for a short period of time, only before 2020, as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis. In addition, we also implement the social agreement that was concluded in agriculture and horticulture at the beginning of this year. Two measures of that social agreement are included. Firstly, a worker may only be employed as a seasonal worker in an undertaking if he has not worked with a permanent contract for that undertaking 180 days before. Secondly, in the decision we are implementing the agreed extension of the quota following the export problems of the pears sector in our country from 65 days to 100 days for hard fruit. Moreover, for this year we are adding the soft fruit sector, because, for example, there is a high demand for sufficient labour in the strawberry sector. I want to be very clear on this, the powers of attorney-KB regulates a temporary situation, which means that the doubling of quotas will only apply for 2020. The additional measures relating to the 180-day quota and also to the soft and hard fruit sector will therefore expire after this year. This means that the legislative initiatives of various parties currently before Parliament are also being followed up. It will then be possible to obtain a definitive regime for the fruit sector and the 180-day quota from 2021 onwards. Parliament will therefore certainly be able to play its role in the coming weeks and months with regard to measures beyond 2020. At the start-up, we will also be able to better assess the needs of the sector, which will be important for the 2021 scheme. I would like to point out to Mrs Thémont that the Royal Decree implements a social agreement in the sector. We have had many consultations with the social partners on the agreement reached earlier this year. Similarly, Mrs Thémont, the Royal Decree of Special Powers has been explained several times within the Group of Ten to the social partners. To say that we have not organised social consultation is incorrect. We have had a lot of information and consultation with the social partners on this. It was asked whether enough people would be found in the coming weeks to be able to do that work. Work mediation is an important aspect of this and is a regional competence. There has been a great deal of consultation with the regions in recent weeks. In Flanders, the VDAB has launched a platform on its website to find people who can help with the harvest. It has been possible to register since last week to be employed in this sector. It is true that we currently have about 8,000 seasonal foreign workers. The doubling of quotas will allow them to stay here, but it is also important to be able to deploy 15,000 to 20,000 additional people in the coming weeks. We want to launch another appeal for this, but the regions are playing the role they need to play today. We must also consider whether we can encourage students to work in these sectors in the coming weeks. The combination of student work with seasonal work is possible. It is important to match supply and demand. As for Mrs Samyn's question, in some sectors foreign workers leave during the winter period and return in spring. In order for foreign seasonal workers, especially from Romania and Poland, to be able to return in the coming months, talks are being held in cooperation with Foreign Affairs to ensure their passage. There is the question of whether joint transport can be used to bring them here. We hope to achieve a breakthrough there in the coming days. But Germany's construction and agricultural and horticultural sectors are also a demanding party for additional labour. We are picking up signals that one might try to seduce the labour force, which Germany must cross, to stay there and not make the crossing to Belgium. We must take this opportunity into account, even though we have difficulty in getting to grips with that process. As far as possible quarantine measures are concerned, my colleague is much more capable of doing so. I feel strongly supported by her in this regard and will not venture to explain it; she will certainly take care of it. In any case, it is important to ensure that foreign seasonal workers can come here. There were also several questions about the temporary unemployed. Let us be clear: those who were already unemployed before the crisis were already able to carry out seasonal work. The VDAB motivated the unemployed before and still does so to work in agriculture and horticulture, and not only as a seasonal worker, but as a regular worker. Today we have 400,000 unemployed and 1.3 million workers in temporary unemployment. We want to find the peak of the 15,000 to 20,000 extra hands that we need for a few weeks, especially with them. We also felt clearly that it was necessary to encourage the temporary unemployed to enter these sectors. The aim of the employment of the unemployed is still activation with a view to long-term integration into the labour market, while the involvement of the temporary unemployed is very clearly about a temporary situation. Mrs Samyn asked about the entry into force of the Royal Decree in view of the request for the opinion of the Council of State. Well, both the ordinary royal decree and the power of attorney act are subject to the date of 10 April 2020 and we hope to be able to proceed with publication once we have received the opinion of the Council of State, perhaps today or tomorrow. Both decisions were submitted to the Council of State at the same time. As far as sector aid is concerned, a question from both Mrs Samyn and Mrs Fonck, Minister Ducarme, explained last week that there was a debate at European level on the nature of possible sector aid, for which the agricultural and horticultural sectors are interested. It is up to the regional ministers responsible for agriculture to draw up the aid measures for these sectors. Measures were also requested for farmers with liquidity problems. The regions have developed guarantee schemes for this purpose. For example, in Flanders there is a public guarantee of 80% with a maximum maturity of three years for up to 770,000 euros. All other measures, such as the postponement of payments of social contributions, which my colleague will certainly tell you more about, also apply to farmers. The conditions for eligibility for the nuisance premiums and the right of bridging also apply to farmers and self-employed persons. You also asked a question about extra foreign labour. My answer consists of three parts. Whoever's here, we'll keep working longer through the quota system. Through short-term temporary unemployment and student labour, we will also have extra hands in the coming weeks. Through the European level, we are still trying to get seasonal workers to our country. The Royal Decree clearly states that if a agricultural or horticultural company cannot provide for its place, there is also no employment possible. The farmers and horticulturalists are therefore also responsible for the housing of the workers, in accordance with the relevant decrees. In doing so, I gave a first round of answers. I am convinced that Mr De Block has a lot to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u17	Mr Muylle, you spoil me, because you have already mentioned a great deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u18	Madam Secretary, if you'll allow me, I'd like to interrupt. Mr Flahaut has two further questions which also relate to your powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u19	Minister, I have heard the answer referring to difficulties in accessing the labour force, etc. I will ask a question which you may not have an answer to, but which seems to me to be a matter of common sense. I'm still trying to get both feet on the ground. Has any thought been given to providing an occupation for all those who are, for example, in the Fedasil centres? Besides this, there is still the whole problem of temporary work. A series of people today are in the files of the acting agencies. The latter no longer have the opportunity to offer them temporary jobs. There is, however, a sector which could temporarily provide an occupation. These are two complementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u20	I will respond quickly that the interims are included. It's in another special power order, but they're included in the measures. As for Fedasil, my colleague will answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u21	Mr President, I was asked whether these people should be quarantined. For this purpose, an opinion was requested from CELEVAL. That's gonna be there in the next few days. There is concern about seasonal workers who have to go through Germany or France. There has been an opinion from the Single Market Enforcement Task Force, set up by the European Commission. According to the opinion, seasonal workers must be able to cross borders, but the general rules on hygiene and distance must be respected. That is easier said than done, but these are the conditions on which they can cross the border. For the students there is indeed a KB, which is now with the Council of State. Students can also be recruited for that kind of work. It is therefore important to increase quotas. It may seem like simple work, but it's not, especially for people who do that for the first time. Among other things, to pick fruit without damaging it requires a certain skill and skill, hence the importance of giving people who already know the work more hours. They can then transfer their knowledge to new people, such as students and asylum seekers who have been here for some time or who are in the asylum centres. Also for agriculture and horticulture, mostly self-employed, the measures for postponing social contributions are possible if their income falls back to 65% of what they achieved in the past. They must ask for that postponement themselves. If they have not done so and they are still in financial difficulties, then a payment plan can be agreed with the RSZ without interest. These are all temporary measures to ensure that as few people as possible get into trouble in these important sectors, important for us, but also for those people themselves. Minister Muylle has already replied on quota. There was a social agreement, but only about apples and pears, I understand. Now, of course, it's about other harvests, now the strawberries are coming. That is why we have temporarily extended the agreement, but negotiations on social agreements are continuing and legislative initiatives in the Chamber can also be continued in this respect, because this will stop at the end of this year and we must be able to rely on something else. After every winter there will be a spring and a summer and for the next harvest it is certainly necessary to continue working on this. We all agree on that. There is still a need to maintain distance in the workplace. We shall see what is happening at a further stage. The National Security Council has to decide that, but now we need to take measures on distance and hygiene. The Labour Inspectorate will monitor this, as it will monitor other matters. The role of our inspectors has therefore been extended in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now give the floor to the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u23	Mr President, I have heard that this order is of limited duration. I am reassured to hear that the work of the students is possible in this situation, even if it remains a little abstract. As far as social consultation is concerned, it must also be carried out within the company and not just within the Group of Ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u24	Mr President, Minister for Labour, Minister for Social Affairs, the financial impact of the coronavirus on the agricultural sector is considerable. The measures already taken for this vital sector are a good start, but more is needed, even in the future. I will come back to my last question about health measures and social discrimination between seasonal foreign workers. I understand from the answer that if the farmer himself cannot guarantee a safe offer of residence for seasonal workers, they cannot start either. I repeat that this must be considered and, where appropriate, the FPS Economy should be able to provide a stay offer. What Fedasil can do for asylum seekers, the FPS Economy should also be able to do for seasonal workers, namely to claim holiday parks or to place additional housing containers. It cannot be that seasonal workers arrive here untested and have to stay here in bunk beds or common spaces. The Boerenbond is concerned about the fact that the forces with experience are now abroad. The government must ensure that in the future the experienced forces are also in our country, for the seasonal picking and stabbing of asparagus, for example. After this crisis, there is certainly a need to consider labour supply in agriculture and horticulture. I know that this is a Flemish competence, but there must be extra attention and encouragement for training in secondary education. I am also thinking, where appropriate, of the use of students and students in the seasonal picking. There is certainly something to be said for calling on foreign European forces in times of labour shortages. However, I suspect that this crisis will also have an impact on the labour market, because an increase in unemployment is to be feared. In the agricultural sector, after the crisis, it is necessary to review how local conditions can be met in this work so that foreign workers can be less employed and more domestic workers can be employed. In times of "buy local" and ecological footprint, it should be possible to think about using our forces from planting or sowing to harvesting the fruit. Only in this way will our economy, and hence this vital sector, be able to survive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the ministers for their presence and the clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your explanation. I just want to confirm that I am pleased to hear that the measure is limited to this year, that it is exceptional. At the PTB, we will not support all the attempts - and I understand that they come from different sides - to extend these measures. I do not know whether Minister Muylle defends this too, but she suggested that legislative work should be continued as early as 2021. We will, of course, remain very vigilant on this issue. For us, there can be no question of creating yet an army of seasonal workers with low wages and a very precarious status, and using this crisis to go in this direction. Consideration must be given to returning to a more local agriculture, or even working at more suitable prices for producers, and thus influencing the margins of large distributors; supporting cooperatives in the sector, etc. It will require much more global reflection. There is no question for us of putting pressure on wages in the sector, which are already very low, to be competitive in a global market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u27	I thank the Ministers for their answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u28	Thank you to the ministers for their presence. Thank you also to Mrs Muylle for clarifying the temporary nature of the work we are doing at this time. We'll have to repeat it a lot. This is the principle of special powers, which are limited in time. I understand what you're saying about the interims. I didn't understand exactly what was going on with people in the Fedasil Centers. Is there an opportunity to hire them or not? The answer was not so clear to me. Let's go to the people who come from outside. When Belgian nationals return from holidays, for example, they are required to observe a period of confinement of about 15 days. At least that's what they're recommended. Will the same principle be applied to persons returning from abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u29	I cannot say this in advance because it falls within the scope of CELEVAL's opinion. For asylum seekers, it was decided that it was possible if they had been here for four months, so as not to create an air call. But those who are here can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-20-55-commissie-ic149x.u30	Mrs. Samyn, you had a question about the housing of seasonal workers. For the people who are in the procedure, there is an obligation to care. There is a lot of regulation today. This used to be federal regulations. Since the last state reform, this has been regional regulation. There is a decree on chambers in Flanders which lays down very specific rules on the accommodation of seasonal workers. That determines the size of the rooms and sleeping areas. There's gotta be plumbing. There's gotta be a kitchen. If people cannot be housed in their own company because they cannot be met, then solutions must be sought in the private rental market. Then the housing on the rental market also has to comply with the decree on rooms. Just putting people to sleep, you can't. This is rightly strictly defined in Flanders with a decree that also applies to seasonal workers.
