ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the last committee meeting I asked you a number of questions about our region, the Kempen, which has some 500 000 inhabitants. Almost all the questions were addressed at that time, except for the question about the undertunnelling of our railways. I know that the transport companies are striving to make the thinking safer and to eliminate it as much as possible. In Herentals, in fact the main station of the Kempen, the Kempenaars have been waiting for decades to consider the undertunneling of two which are crucial for rail transport throughout Kempen. The question is therefore not purely from Herentals, rather from the whole of Kempen. Previous governments have made other demands in this respect. For example, the Di Rupo government gave priority to the undertunneling of a minor railroad crossing in Brabant, a village with barely 1,000 inhabitants in Wallonia. Minister, what is your vision? Will you work on major sub-tunnels in large cities and regions, such as the railway roads in the Kempen, to which I referred?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, in reply to your question, SNCB informs me of the following. In the framework of the masterplan station environment Herentals, a solution was developed for the subtunnelling of the Olympiadelaan and Poedereeseweg project. Both must be dealt with in turn. First, the road through Poedereeseweg has to be replaced; at that time the Olympiadelaan will act as a detour. Afterwards, the Olympiadlaan can only be replaced. For this project there is a steering committee in which Infrabel, the city of Herentals and the AWV are represented. The AWV draws the file for the crossing Powderleeseweg, as this concerns a very large bottleneck on a regional road. The study contract to examine possible scenarios up to and including a start note is currently in an award phase. Following that examination of the alternatives and the decision on the chosen variant, the authorisation process still needs to be completed. The design and implementation phases will then follow. Although the dossier is certainly being dealt with in this legislature, a full implementation of this project will no longer be possible in the current legislature, given the ongoing examination of variants and the progress of the procedure, the SNCB reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased that you acknowledge the study, that it is going ahead and that it is even at the award stage. I very much hope that we can make a quick tender and carry out the study quickly. If there were an effective faster solution, or if that study showed us, we could at least start this legislative process with the solution. Maybe it can't be finished yet, but if it can be started already, the Kempenaar would do a great deal of pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the figures of the Vias Institute are particularly alarming. Indeed, in the first nine months of 2019, the roads of the province of Luxembourg killed 31 times in 9 months, compared to 14 times last year during the same period. This represents 17 additional deaths, the largest increase in the Walloon Region, which is increasing in almost all provinces, to a total of 40 additional deaths. In total, according to Benoît Godart, the spokesperson for Vias: "There were almost 50 deaths in 2019 in the province. This is the worst figure in ten years, with the exception of 2015." These figures represent those who died directly at the scene of an accident. Therefore, they could increase if people who died in the days following the accident were taken into account. According to the spokesman for Vias: "The peculiarity of the province of Luxembourg is that its roads lined with trees can be sources of accident. As well as the behaviour of young drivers, and the absence of alternatives to the car, in the evening or on weekends, in relation to other regions." The explanations of the spokesman for Vias point to where the building hurts in the province of Luxembourg: dangerous roads and above all the lack of alternatives to the car. In addition, Vias notes that truck accidents are also on the rise. The figures for the first half of 2020 are no more reassuring. Accidents are a little less numerous due to containment, but they are much more serious. Minister, what do you intend to put in place to try to reduce the alarming figures for Vias? More specifically for the province of Luxembourg, the diagnosis advanced by the spokesman for Vias is clear. This is a rural area where alternatives to the car are rare, and where roads are dangerous. Will you take into account the particularities of this province, and others if necessary? Finally, what do you intend to put in place to combat increasingly frequent truck accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u5	Mrs Hanus, I obviously share your concerns about road safety. They appear prominently in my policy brief. I had the opportunity to discuss this not later than Tuesday, 1 December, in the General States of Road Safety in Wallonia, with Walloon Minister De Bue and my colleague Philippe Henry. It is important to note, as the spokesman for Vias mentioned, that the sources of accidents are varied. Accidents may be caused by defective road infrastructure, which is not under federal jurisdiction but by regions or municipalities, by a certain category of drivers who are more reckless than others, or by vehicles that are more dangerous. The solutions to be found are therefore numerous and must be provided by the various Belgian actors responsible for road safety. That is a general remark I wanted to make. As far as your first question is concerned, it would seem appropriate, in this specific context, to obtain a more detailed analysis of the statistics with a view to examining whether certain regions of the province of Luxembourg are more affected than others. It should also be seen on what type of road accidents occur, both for motorists and for trucks. If this analysis showed that many accidents occurred on a given road, consideration should be given to either carrying out more checks, installing radars on the sections concerned or carrying out specific work to improve traffic conditions. Specific behaviours can, of course, lead to increased risk of accidents. That is why we are working with my colleagues the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice on multiple solutions to prevent the recurrence of road traffic offences. The modalities still need to be defined, but you know that I rely very heavily on the re-learning courses of driving, with a set of measures, including increased controls that must reduce the number of infringements on the roads and therefore the risk of accidents. However, I would like to point out that there is a risk of bias in the analysis of figures concerning an area too small. I haven't studied the issue, but you may know this news better than I do as a local observer. Sometimes it takes a few very serious accidents to inflate and truncate the real picture of a situation and safety on our roads. The context of coronavirus has reduced traffic on roads and I think we need to be able to make comparisons over several years. As far as your second question is concerned, it seems important to me, as I said in our discussions last week, to promote alternative modes of travel such as train and bicycle. The promotion of these alternative means also requires a quality infrastructure which in many cases reduces the risk of accidents or the severity of accidents. For example, for cycling, the development of optimized bike paths is an important point, particularly to improve the safety of cyclists. They need to be adapted to classic bicycles while taking into account the fate of electric bicycles and the increase in cycling traffic in general. With regard to your third question, following the adoption of European Regulation 2019/2144 on general vehicle safety, new advanced vehicle safety features will be progressively made mandatory in the single market. These ten new obligations will come into force in several phases, from 2022 to 2029. Belgium is involved through me and SPF Mobility in the work on defining the technical requirements of these devices. For heavy vehicles and trucks in particular that you quote in your question, some devices will be made mandatory earlier, as early as 2022 and 2024 for new vehicles. For example, protection against underruns, collision warning or the risk of collision with pedestrians or cyclists, indirect vision systems, path drift detection systems or warning devices for loss of attention or drowsiness of the driver. Indeed, falling asleep at the wheel is certainly one of the causes of an accident. I will conclude by saying that, given the wide range of devices covered and the high level of requirements for their technical requirements, the generalisation of these safety equipment should contribute significantly to a reduction in the number of accidents and their severity. I wish once again that we can work with the Committee on Mobility on this issue and find concrete solutions to meet the government's very ambitious but necessary goal of reducing serious injuries and fatalities on the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u6	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. This is indeed a crucial issue for the province of Luxembourg - where I come from - and this is all a common matter. We are part of a predominantly rural territory, where there is a lack of mobility and where the use of the car remains, alas, necessary for many citizens. The number of accidents is therefore correlated. I thank you, therefore, for presenting in a few words the government's broad agenda and your vision for the years to come. I hope that this programme will remain grounded in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u7	Mr President, Minister, as I recall, my question was tabled in mid-November when the issue was at the heart of the news. So I am not going to take up my entire question and just listen to your answer, Minister, which will certainly be updated. The aim is to know where we are and what consultations have been held with the federated entities and, in particular, with the Brussels-Capital Region on this kilometric tax project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Gilson, I have already had the opportunity to answer this question last Thursday in plenary. But it is true that the question and the answer had been put in Dutch since it was a question of Mr Raskin. Having said that, I am still not a member of the Brussels government. The latter obviously still has on its agenda the introduction of a so-called smart kilometric tax system. However, it must be noted that the text is not yet ready. We'll analyze it as soon as it's in our possession. We have already pointed out, however, that we have asked the Brussels Region, as soon as it is ready, to seize the ad hoc bodies, in this case the Conciliation Committee, which brings together both members of the federal and regional governments. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the Walloon Region also wishes this consultation to take place. As I have said on several occasions, we will judge on a piecemeal basis. Indeed, we must have the politeness, intelligence and wisdom to wait for the Brussels proposal, before issuing a judgment, accepting, refusing or amending that proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. Concertation is indeed essential. However, one may regret the many publicity effects that have led to chain reactions from officials in the other regions, which can be understood. In any event, we will continue to follow up on this issue, bearing in mind that, for the MR, a kilometric tax would have a binding effect which could result in very negative collateral effects for the economy and for the inhabitants of the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u10	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back a while, but I chose to keep it, because I think we can learn lessons from it for the future. On 17 October there was a congestion due to an action of the Securail at the station Gent-Sint-Pieters which made it impossible to keep the healthy distance. The intention was good, they wanted to avoid too many passengers getting on the train, but the approach does raise questions. By organizing the control at the top of the escalator, no one could go one more way. It was also difficult for passengers to leave the platform. It is good that we want to keep track of the capacity utilisation of trains. That indeed sometimes requires intervention, let us be clear. The train escorts can't be alone. That's why Securail is being deployed. However, the ultimate objective must be to protect passengers and obviously this has not been achieved here. What went wrong during this action of Securail? What lessons does Securail learn about this unfortunate intervention? How will it be possible for subsequent interventions to be carried out according to the current corona directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, since the beginning of the health crisis, SNCB has made every effort to comply with the measures imposed by the authorities and to ensure that passengers can comply with them. In this respect, SNCB continuously adjusts its proceedings on the basis of these measures and in consultation with the supervisory authority. One of the most important measures is to reduce capacity utilisation on trains, together with the ad hoc strengthening of the transport supply. This operative, which requires a rigorous organisation, has enabled travellers to comply with health measures as closely as possible during the busy holiday period. This operative part is also introduced in the context of the award of the famous Hello Belgium Railpass. As foreseen in the Royal Decree of 28 July, SNCB carries out at each stop passenger station in order to avoid overcrowding when a high capacity utilisation rate is expected, such as on 17 October towards the coast. If there is a risk of overcrowding, passengers are not allowed to board and are requested to take another train. That's what SNCB calls the stop-and-go system. This is not therefore an action, but a procedure applicable in all stations of the network. On 17 October, sufficient measures were provided for, which are, moreover, regularly applied without any problems. The situation in Ghent-St-Pieters was the result of a combination of circumstances which the SNCB regrets. The concentration of passengers at the Gent-St-Pieters station was due to the risk of overcrowding occurring during a limited time interval while at that time there were also 3 platforms out of service for technical reasons. Due to several incidents on the line, there was also a need to deviate from the initially foreseen spread. The incident that had the greatest impact on the channeling of travellers was an act of desperation on the connection between Ghent-St-Pieters and Bruges. Train traffic on this section was interrupted between 11.20 a.m. and 12.57. The train had to be rerouted via other lines, leading to significant delays and a large influx of passengers at the Ghent-St-Pieters station. In addition, the human factor was put under pressure. The originally foreseen staff capacity for stop-and-go was last minute and unexpectedly limited, not only because of the aforementioned incidents but also because certain agents of Securail who were present at the beginning of the morning had unexpectedly to quarantine due to a possible infection with COVID-19. SNCB has evaluated events in order to avoid or better manage such incidents in the future, but no one has any control over certain problems related to external factors. Several improvements will be made to the procedure. For example, there will be more real-time coordination of the distribution of Securail staff across the network so that it can be more dynamic and staff will always be available within a relatively short period of time. SNCB will also strengthen the presence of Securail's operational managers on the ground within the framework of Passenger Flow Management. She will also ask the railway police to strengthen the role of her liaison officer, who is present in the security operation centre. As passengers tended to group on the platform on 17 October 2020, although a wider spread was possible on the platforms, SNCB will also focus more on informing and sensitising passengers about the stop-and-go system and on the need to spread well across the platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u12	Mr President, Minister, thank you for a very detailed answer. It is true that we should not cling to this one situation on 17 October 2020. Moreover, I am very pleased that this situation is being evaluated by SNCB and Securail and that lessons are being drawn from it, considering how the stop-and-go procedure can be used even better. It also looks at how people can be sensitized to spread more when they are gathering on a platform. After all, we must ensure that we continue to organise our rail traffic in a healthy and safe manner. I have repeated it a few times here in committee. I have also repeated it in response to your policy paper and policy statement. I am convinced that we must get people back to the train by convincing them that it can and is safe. I am therefore extremely pleased that SNCB is learning from events and that improvements and adjustments are being made to ensure that people can travel safely by train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u13	Minister, this question is a completely different one, but it is therefore no less important. Neighborhood residents of the station Brussels-Zuid have been complaining about noise around the Hortaplein and Barastraat for some time. That noise does not come from trains, as one might think, but from the cooling system of the data centre. The new installation makes more disturbing sound than the previous installation. This was already discussed with SNCB in 2016. Then SNCB said that it had carried out tests to reduce the noise level of the plant, but according to the locals it appears to be doing little to reduce the noise level. Meanwhile, the problem continues. Minister, what measures has SNCB already taken to remedy the problem? Were any sound measurements made? What was the result of the measurements? What measures are under investigation? What measures will be implemented when? If there are no additional measures under investigation, why not? What functions do the cooling system need?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u14	Mrs Buyst, I have received an answer from SNCB to your questions, which I shall read. SNCB has required the contractor to make his own installation in accordance with the standards. The contractor has added additional insulation and better vibration dampers to the machine. Various sound measurements were made, both sound power measurements and ambient measurements. The first measurements showed that the refrigerating machines were not in conformity with the specifications of SNCB. Sound measurements were carried out by both De Fonseca, SNCB's study office, and BIM, Brussels' Environment. The results of the two measurements were always very long awaited. The situation has now improved, and that is the most important thing. The noise problem is further monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u15	A brief answer this time. That can happen sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u16	Minister, it is important that we continue to bring the issue to the attention of our railway companies, which have many neighbours. Better a good neighbor than a distant friend, says the proverb. I hope that SNCB and Infrabel will continue to engage in dialogue with the neighbours. That won't always be easy. It is not just that cooling system, we sometimes get emails from local residents who experience noise from out-of-date rolling stock. Our country is densely populated, so it will not always be obvious to find a solution, but I would certainly like to express the hope that SNCB will continue to engage in dialogue with its neighbours. People are often very understanding when it is explained why a particular problem cannot be solved directly, if one is still looking for the right solution. In particular, I hope that SNCB will continue to engage in the discussion and that in this particular case the problem will not drag on and that a solution will still be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u17	Minister, the 12 free journeys that citizens could obtain have a duration of six months. They will therefore be able to be used until the end of March 2021. However, already two weeks after the start and entry into force of the free Railpass, the government decided to close all cafes and restaurants indefinitely as part of the covid control. All amusement parks also had to be closed indefinitely like museums and other tourist attractions. A further two weeks later, freedom of movement was also restricted and shops and other services were closed down. Mr President, in view of the circumstances and the temporary usefulness of the free Railpass in terms of its intended purpose, in particular the strengthening of tourism, are you considering extending the duration of the Railpass? The main tourist attraction poles are temporarily closed. If the duration would not be extended, how will SNCB avoid the risk of overconcentration on trains and platforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u18	Minister, the context has been explained by my colleague, the Hello Belgium Railpass is very successful. I think we should welcome that. This SNCB name product, valid for two free trips per month (between two Belgian stations) since 5 October 2020, can in principle be used until 31 March 2021. It turns out that on 12 November last, the mayor of Ostend insured himself against the presence of a number of passengers of one day at the Coast on the holiday of 11 November and thus requested the suspension of the Railpass during this period of partial confinement. It seems to me that as the end-of-year holidays approach, it is more than likely that users will use their rail pass to visit one or the other of our cities and especially the Christmas illuminations. Unlike my colleague from the N-VA, I think that in the extremely complicated moments that we are currently going through, it is important to leave this invitation to the journey intact, in the respect of the barrier gestures. As a result, Minister, do you intend to maintain the Hello Belgium Railpass system during the coming weeks and especially during the Christmas holidays? Is it possible to extend the period of validity of this product beyond 31 March 2021? The SNCB site currently states that the rail pass would not be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u19	I haven't heard from Mr. Bayet. The floor is therefore yours, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u20	Thank you, Mr Roggeman, for becoming the defender of the Railpass, although you were against it in the past. That is a step in the right direction. Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Roggeman, this Hello Belgium Railpass is a great success. I had the opportunity to say that when I presented my policy note. One in three Belgians used this opportunity to benefit from train tickets allowing them to visit once a month - in the form of a round trip - the cities of our beautiful country and thus regain confidence in the rail, or even discover or rediscover the train. As regards the extension of the period of validity, the situation currently differs from that of March because movements are still possible. It was a desire of the concertation committee, while calling for telework and respect for barrier actions, to allow - unlike other countries - our fellow citizens to continue to circulate and take the air with caution. In addition, SNCB has maintained a maximum offer until the announcement of the last measures and has adapted that offer slightly to take account of the new context. In particular - I have just explained it to Mrs Buyst - by adding trains to the coast to avoid overcrowding and by introducing the stop&go system. These circumstances were provided for from the outset in the Royal Decree of 28 July 2020 establishing the Hello Belgium Railpass. The general conditions of use of the pass indicate that it is only possible on weekdays after 9 a.m. to limit interference with other travellers during the morning peak period. Combined with this measure, the two-way limitation per month severely reduces the risk of overoccupation on weekdays. As far as the weekend is concerned, as I have said, the SNCB structurally strengthens the compositions of 124 trains per day on weekends on the most busy axes and, when necessary, sets up an additional supply of trains for which a reinforcement of the compositions is not possible. This additional offer consists of 25 extra trains per weekend on the Namur-Brussels lines and 18 extra trains per weekend on the Leuven-Brussels-Gand-Bruges-Ostende line. There has been so far (and I am the situation every weekend) only a very small number of trains with an occupancy of more than 100% on weekends, depending on work or incidents for reasons outside the free Railpass, as I have just explained to Mrs Buyst. It is not possible to extend the validity of the Railpass, even if I wished, because the order made by my predecessor François Bellot on 28 July 2020 explicitly states that the validity of the card is not extended in the event of a pandemic, infrastructure work, strike or force majeure. The terms of the royal decree therefore remain applicable, i.e. use of this travel formula until the end of March at the rate of two trips per month with one departure after 9 a.m. on weekdays. At this stage there is therefore no reason to extend the length of the Railpass, which would also be extremely complex. As I announced in the context of my political orientation paper, Operation Hello Belgium will be evaluated with SNCB. On the basis of this assessment, the possibility of giving a future to this operation in terms of the public, the timetable, if any, will be explored, but I repeat that nothing is decided. It is a possibility that is given. But I think that an operation that is so successful deserves at least attention for the future. We will see what is possible depending on the evolution of epidemiological conditions. Mr. Roggeman said that the Railpass had completely missed its objective, but those who had set up the Railpass in December could not know that there would be a second wave to which the entire company, including SNCB, had to adapt. SNCB must also adapt to this. These are my answers, Mr. President, Mrs. Rohonyi, Mr. Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm afraid you've thanked me too soon for the so-called support for the Rail Pass measure. Don't worry, I'm still against it. I am still convinced that it is not an efficient way to deal with public money. I thought that before, and now that I have heard your answer, I think that is all the more so. Of course, we already knew that the government is giving people a gift that they pay themselves, so to speak, for the benefit of tourism, but the restaurants, museums and sights are closed. There was therefore no question of tourism for two months. You say today that the validity of the Railpass will not be extended, so that means that a quarter of the journeys cannot meet its objective in any way. You are right that we did not see the second wave coming, but we do know today what we stand for and what the consequences are. It would be logical for the measures taken to be adapted accordingly. Minister, if you still want to meet the objective of supporting tourism a little bit, extend the validity of the Railpass, otherwise you will literally lure people to the train alone in corona time, with all the risks involved, and without any beneficial economic effect. That wouldn't be a sensible procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think we all agree that, in the end, the two confinements we have had were an opportunity to bring about a change in mentality and habits. If the Railpass can help, it's very good. This is really an excellent thing in particular, as you said, with a containment that is different from the first. Today, travel abroad is strongly discouraged while internal displacement is recommended, especially during an anxiety period when there is a real need to change air. So I am really glad that you intend to maintain the Railpass as planned, even if I continue to believe that it could have been extended to support tourism and the Belgian economy even in the event of deconfinity or if in the meantime we get vaccinated - we will see what will happen - because our tourism will need it. I hear that a royal decree has been issued by your predecessor, but now you are the Minister of Mobility. So you could very well adopt another particular by-law if, as you say, the evaluation of this Railpass was extremely positive. I think it still deserves reflection if the results of this evaluation are really positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u23	Mr Minister, I would like to refer to SNCB's transport plan, which indicates that the Brussels motorway motorway will be extended to Neerpelt by mid 2021, which is a good thing for the train traveller and especially for the Limburg train traveller. In the longer term, SNCB is even considering extending the connection to Hamant. However, this requires an adjustment of the station there. The platforms are too short and there are too few tracks. When I asked your predecessor about that possible adjustment, he didn't give it at home. That's why I'm asking you my questions now. How concrete are SNCB's plans to extend the Brussels-Mol-Neerpelt link to Hamant? Is there any timing in this matter? Are the electrification works already under way today on the route MolattoHamont on schedule? Will they be effectively completed by June 2021 or is there a further delay? Finally, is the timing for extending the peak hour Brussels motorway Mol to Neerpelt still correct? Will the extension be effective in June 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u24	Minister, I would like to take up the question of my predecessor. He asks if the works are still on schedule, but they aren't anymore today. We are already facing a six-month delay. The previous minister then referred to the problems caused by corona, which I have always found bizarre. We are really looking forward to the extension coming in mid 2021 and the train from Neerpelt will lead directly towards Brussels. I have already asked questions about the equipment that will be made available on the line. The previous speaker also referred to the reply of the previous minister, who said that the train could not drive to Hamont because of the length of the platform. In Hamont I'm told other things. There I am told that the problem would lie with a switch too close to the station. Is that information correct? I would have liked to have known about this, and then see if we can do something about it. My final question also has to do with what your predecessor said here in committee, namely that he would also check whether the number of stations running these peak hour trains is justified and there are not too many such stations. He also announced a meeting with a number of mayors. I don't know if any of that ever happened. What are your intentions in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has already been addressed, which was already clearly described in the committee meeting last week. At the moment the Antwerp-Hamont train is still split in Mol, where one part continues to Hasselt and the other part to Hamont. In view of the change in the transport plan, the train would track from Antwerp to Hamant and the connection Mol-Hasselt with an L-train will be ensured, which runs separately from the IC-train Antwerp-Hamont. That is, of course, a good thing for the Kempense traveller. Not only can the electrification of the route be used, thereby increasing passenger comfort, including the fact that there is no need for connection or uncoupling in Mol, the connection should also be made more reliable and smoother. The big question remains, however, which equipment will be used on the Hamont-Antwerp connection. In the Kempen there is already a lot of old material on the tracks. The Kempense traveller longs for reliable and modern equipment. The station in Hamant is an additional problem with the choice of equipment, as my colleague has just mentioned. Mr Minister, can you clarify the equipment that will run on the Hamont-Antwerp link from June 2021? Does the gradual influx of the new M7 vehicles change the material choice for that connection in the long term? If so, from when? How will the problem of the limited infrastructure in Hamant be solved? Will the Hamont station be given priority in the investment list, so that that station is equipped to receive sufficient long trains? Has there been any specific timing for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u26	Minister, I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members, particularly about timing, since the start-up period has been postponed by six months. We are very confident that the electrification will be completed by mid 2021, so that the train from Antwerp will be able to drive through Mol to Hamont. With my question I also look a little further, namely beyond Hamont, towards the Netherlands. Last week, when we discussed your policy statement, we also discussed it. Since the route is there, an additional cross-border rail link between Belgium and the Netherlands could easily be achieved, very important for that region, but also at a wider level, that border crossing can ensure, for example, that Antwerp and Eindhoven can be connected by rail in a fairly direct way. That connection between Hamont and Weert offers a lot of potential. SNCB also saw this and completed a potential study in November. Today is 2 December, so I assume that this study has now been effectively completed. Minister, I have tabled more questions, but I shall now confine myself to the two most important ones. Firstly, how do you view, in principle, an additional cross-border rail link between Belgium and the Netherlands, specifically between Hamant and Weert? I am not asking what SNCB thinks of that; I want to know what you think of that as a minister. Secondly, what is the state of play of the feasibility study, the potential study of SNCB? Has the study been completed and can it be delivered to the members of the committee if necessary? What is the potential of this investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u27	There are a lot of questions on a subject that was already addressed in last week's debate. I hope to give you some more information, but I think we will have to come back to it later. With regard to the Brussels-Mol-Neerpelt link, the answer of my predecessor, Minister Bellot, to your combined questions of 1 July is still valid. It was initially intended to extend the 2 P trains between Brussels and Mol to Neerpelt from December 2020. Infrabel lets me know that the works could be resumed at the end of May after it was stopped by the corona crisis. This has led to delays and some work needs to be carried out at the beginning of 2021. The placing in service is still foreseen for June 2021. Since Infrabel's electrification works have been delayed on that line, the project will be moved to mid 2021. The change is planned when the Mol-Hamont electrification is started. The non-expansion to Hamont is due to the fact that the platforms of Hamont are too short for these long trains, and to the fact that there are too few tracks. With the necessary adjustments, SNCB intends to have these trains stopped in Hamant in the long term. SNCB is not yet in a position to submit concrete plans. There is currently no final decision as to which equipment will be used. Too bad for Mrs Verhaert who had some questions about that. The possibilities for peak hour trains to continue to stop in Kessel and Boubel depend on the available path on the single track between Neerpelt and Mol and the equipment used. Here too, the negotiations with Infrabel are still ongoing. On 1 October, SNCB was able to explain the issue in detail and discuss it with the local authorities present during its road show for the province of Limburg, and perhaps with some members of our committee. During the presentation of my policy paper, I said that I found the road shows a very good way to facilitate dialogue between SNCB and local authorities. With regard to the train connection Hamont-Weert, SNCB is working on a business case from the point of view of a railway operator. As soon as it is finalized, she will, for the record, inform me as Minister of Mobility of the results of the research so that I can first record this dossier at my level with my Dutch colleague. So much for my answer. I will have further questions about this, but as a minister I take the commitment to get more information from SNCB and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Control is, of course, forward-looking. I would ask you once again to make a full effort at the station of Hamant as a mobility hub. I would also ask you to use the Boost-21 funds you announced last week to increase, increase and tackle the number of tracks in parallel with the electrification works that are still running. Hamont, and by extension the province of Limburg, is the heart of the Eurregion. From there we can trace to the Netherlands and to Germany. That is perfectly in line with your policy vision. It could be a basis for the next step, the activation of the Iron Rhine, because that step is also in line with your ambitions. After all, it removes freight transport from the road and also frees up other tracks and lanes in order to increase the offer to the traveller. So, Minister, I urge you to make a full effort at the station of Hamont.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. There might not be enough trace in Hamont. The fact that the platform would be too short is strange in itself. After all, like you, Minister, I often take the train. There are still platforms where I think a train stops, without getting off from all the wagons on those platforms. As far as the material is concerned, we are a border region and have always felt that the moving material there was also the material at the end of the ride, which had thus already been used elsewhere. I therefore hope that this time it will be different, which would show some respect for the region. Finally, Minister, I know that you yourself come from a small village in the region of Namur. You probably had never heard of Hamont-Achel before you took up your current position, which is absolutely no shame. However, it is really only nine kilometers to the station of Weert, where today there is a track. From there we can make a connection with Eindhoven, Venlo, Düsseldorf and Mönchengladbach. From there it is possible to travel by train to Italy, Austria and Germany. So that connection has a lot of potential at a cost that I think is low. You will notice when you speak to your Dutch colleague. It's really the time. The Netherlands has always stopped that project. It has made decisions in other directions over the past few years. I therefore sincerely hope that you will seize your opportunity as Minister to make that connection possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which unfortunately still contain little concrete ones. We had heard that there would be renovated 'pig noses' riding on that line or that this was the intention, which would be yet another battle in the face of the Kempense train traveller. I therefore ask you to focus on the choice of materials for the Kempen, but also to take into account the advantage that we are creating now, because Mol no longer needs to be decoupled. In addition, I would ask you to bet on renovation for the station of Hamont.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, as far as you could give them. They were rather limited. What did please me was that you indicated that you would sit around the table with your Dutch colleague. I believe that we know the commitment of the Netherlands to this cross-border link. I hope that the consultation will give a positive boost to this possible new cross-border train connection. Of course, this will require some investment in the station of Hamont. I understand that the need for work there will ensure that the train will only run to Neerpelt in mid 2021, and not to Hamont. I think it is right to speed up the extension of that train to Hamant in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u32	Minister, you will have noticed that in my question I referred to an increasing wave. In the meantime, this has already become a weakening wave, which says something about the time that sometimes passes between submitting a demand and handling it. I refer to my question in plenary on 15 October. We have already talked about the people who leave public transport out of fear of contamination. They often grab back to the car, something we must, of course, avoid by restoring people's confidence in public transport. We must put their health and staff first. On 20 October, you consulted your regional colleagues to evaluate the situation and ensure the safety of travellers. Which agreements are still relevant, did you make then? What impact did the second wave of infection have on the occupation of trains, the health risk for passengers and the number of infections among staff? Are there any additional measures planned for the coming weeks or months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u33	Mr Vandenbroucke, according to an international study by the International Association of Public Transport, the international interbranch organisation of public transport, the risk of being infected with the coronavirus on public transport is minimal. We are, of course, satisfied that this international investigation shows that the risk of contamination in public transport is low, but that is no reason to do nothing else. SNCB has therefore already done a great deal in the fight against the coronavirus. From 16 to 20 November, the average capacity utilisation rate of trains during rush hour was between 20 % and 23 %. Of the more than 11,000 trains that were recently counted, only 0.53 % had an occupancy of more than 80 %. However, in the context of the current health crisis, the maximum occupancy of our trains is only reached when all seats are occupied. SNCB follows closely and implements all the federal government's guidelines and decisions regarding the fight against the coronavirus, both with regard to its staff and with regard to its travellers. The measures taken by SNCB are too numerous to be listed here, but are available on its website. It is true that not all Parliament's proposals were accepted by SNCB, but I believe that SNCB has explained in detail its position towards each proposal. I recently asked, after our discussion in plenary, Mr Vandenbroucke, to strengthen the information to the traveller, both through the speakers and through the info... advertising... les panneaux de publicité...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u34	Advertising signs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u35	I was trying to find the exact words in Dutch. But since Mr Vandenbroucke understands French well, I am sure he will not blame me for ending my speech by speaking in French. As a result of our last plenary discussion, I, for example, asked SNCB to use the information and advertising signs as well as the sound messages to better inform about the risks and ways of avoiding the transmission of coronavirus, which has been done. I can therefore say that SNCB is fully involved in collective efforts to combat the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u36	Mr President, thank you, Minister, for the answer. The word you were looking for is "information screen." It is very good that you refer, on the one hand, to the facts as demonstrated in international studies, in this case, that the risk of contamination in public transport is minimal and, on the other hand, to the continuing efforts of SNCB on the train network. I have every confidence in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u37	Mr President, Minister, the travel arrangements by SNCB normally take place every year during the month of October. Those numbers are important, because the boarding figures are one of the few sources that tell us about the use of railway stations and railways. The result of the censuses is therefore a very important policy document. However, the corona crisis also runs through those counts, because as telework is the norm today, the measurements are obviously not representative of travel outside the lockdown period. Hence the question of how SNCB this year addressed the passenger numbers, given the exceptional circumstances. Mr Minister, do you think that the data from a passenger count by 2020 could be useful for grafting on future policies? How do you estimate that? Do you think that in the medium term the passenger count is still an appropriate tool for recording the use of stations and stops? The method of measurement means that we know that there is a certain margin of error. Are alternative measuring instruments available? For example, can traffic on- and off-road be derived from the sale and/or registration of tickets? Has SNCB investigated alternative methods of measurement? What is the result of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u38	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, the October census is a representative photograph of the situation within the context in which it was taken. The censuses are an additional measuring tool to investigate the evolution of the number of passengers, especially in normal circumstances, but as you all know, the current conditions are not normal. In the long term, there will certainly be a catch-up effect and passengers will return to the train. That's a lot and a will. Nevertheless, there is no denying that the current pandemic has an impact on the train occupation and that fluctuations in the occupation are observed which follow the successive decisions to tighten up or relax the corona measures. The 2020 censuses are useful, inter alia, to measure the impact of the telework measures on passenger flows. Telework can be accelerated by the pandemic. Different methods of counting travellers are being considered. There are regular proofs of concept to assess different aspects, such as reliability, ease of use and potential costs. For example, SNCB uses electronic counting machines in a number of large stations to validate and improve manual counting. In the same vein, the data from the gates at Brussels Airport station is also used. Some of these methods are reliable, but too expensive. Others are not desirable, less reliable or do not meet the needs of SNCB. At this stage manual counts seem to be the best compromise between quality and price. In the coming years, they will gradually be complemented by more modern methods. One of the methods envisaged is indeed based on the principle of diversion from the sale and registration of transport tickets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u39	Minister, correct data collection is, of course, crucial for transport planning and policy in general. In your policy paper, you expressed the ambition to drastically increase the supply in the coming years. Then, of course, it is important to know where the major transport needs are. We need accurate and accurate data for this. I understand from your answer that SNCB agrees with this and is looking for alternative measuring instruments to complement or correct the manual numbers of travellers. I look forward to additional instruments being rolled out in practice in the coming years. We are now in 2020, there are already other systems available than a manual count. I am glad to hear that SNCB is proactive in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u40	Minister, the Flemish Region has for several years planned to upgrade the Dender to 1,350 tonnes for inland waterway traffic. A bottleneck is the bridge of the railway 53 Dendermonde-Schellebelle, which limits the Dender's navigation window both in height and width. The Flemish future plans can also be interesting for the federal government, since in the vicinity of the bridge is the ground-ground railway crossing OW63 of the same railway line, which crosses with the N406. This road is better known locally as the road crossing of the road to VPK. It's a very busy road. It is used by the transit traffic, the heavy traffic of the nearby industrial zone and the SNCB passengers, who can only change platforms via that route at the station Oudegem. In addition, there will soon be a crossroads with the future bike highway. The safety risk mismatches are significant there. Infrabel's responsible call them even one of the most dangerous consideration in the whole country. Last year, your predecessor, former Minister Bellot, said that there had been no formal contact between Infrabel and the Flemish Water Road Agency on the possible adaptation of that road, bridge and other. Has there been any discussion in the meantime on a possible adjustment of the Dender Bridge, Minister? If so, what is the result? If not, will you ask Infrabel to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u41	Président: Jef Van den Bergh. Secondly, as a supervisory minister, would you consider the construction of an elevated railway and connecting Denderbrug as an opportunity for future investment plans? Does Infrabel study alternative solutions for this? If so, which one? Thirdly, has Infrabel already received the study on which your predecessor, former Minister Bellot, spoke at the committee meeting of 23 October 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u42	Mr Roggeman, first of all, Infrabel has now put the question to the Flemish Waterweg and has received the message that an increase in the bridge is technically interesting. However, this needs to be looked at further financially and must be seen in the longer term. Secondly, Infrabel cannot set the deadline, because it is not the only party to include a possible commitment. Shared investment costs are involved, including the Agency for Roads and Traffic and the Flemish Water Road. Of course, Infrabel is willing to participate in a feasibility study on the project. Moreover, Infrabel does not see many other possibilities, if one wants to avoid too radical changes in the urban fabric of Oudegem. Thirdly, according to our information, no concrete plans or studies of the build-up of the bridge have yet been made. Infrabel is always willing to participate in a feasibility study on the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that Infrabel wants to get started with this and that it has already contacted the partners of the Flemish government, the Flemish Waterweg. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to one of the most important aspects of security within your competence, even if it is a local dossier. Infrabel wants to get rid of all the considerations in the long run. I sometimes have the impression that it is not a priority to consider the greatest security risks, but rather to consider the ones that can be easiest to eliminate. The fact that it takes so long to get the dossier quoted going, together with the partners, is one of the indications that something might go wrong there, even if it is about one of the most dangerous considerations in the country. I stand by the light that Infrabel is open to consultation. It is recognised that in the long term there are few solutions other than raising the bridge and building a new uneven ground crossing at that location. I agree that there are few other solutions in the long term. Now it's time for action. I hope that people will be prepared to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u44	Minister, I will regularly ask questions about international trains, because that is a subject that is very close to my heart. About two months ago, the German Minister for Mobility proposed that Germany should take an active role in Europe in drawing up a trans-European rail network, both for high-speed and night trains. I am very pleased about that. The plan sounds like music to the ears of anyone who likes to travel and yet regularly clashes with practical objections about train travel. It is clear that not only Belgium makes the move to deploy more trains and fewer aircraft, but also other European countries want to follow suit. For example, a coalition for international train traffic was set up in the Netherlands in which 25 European countries are engaged. As I said during the discussion of your policy statement, the European Commission proposed earlier this year to turn 2021 into the European Year of Rail. For this purpose, the Commission intends to organise a series of events, campaigns and other initiatives next year. The proposal was already approved by the committee responsible in the European Parliament. I have a number of questions for you, Minister. How was the German Minister's plan received by the other Member States? What are the next steps to be taken? Belgium is committed to the coalition of the willing for the international train. What are the forthcoming initiatives of this European coalition? Finally, what initiatives will the European Commission take on the occasion of the year of the train? Has there been any consideration of what initiatives our country could take to put the train in the spotlight, because there are some good opportunities there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u45	Mrs Buyst, one of my first actions as a new Minister of Mobility was my participation in a virtual conference of the Transport Ministers at the beginning of October. For my oath as Minister, Germany indeed proposed its plan for developing international connections in Europe at the Transport Ministers' conference on 21 September, the Trans-Europe Express 2.0 with enhanced direct connections during the day and the return of certain night connections. This German initiative, seven of which relate to Belgium, is part of the European desire to encourage the return of long-distance rail links. As a result, the international rail passenger platform was established, following the engagement of several states in the coalition of the willing. Germany has launched a consultation process with the Member States of the European Union. They can express their views on the TEE 2.0 project. The recent renewed interest in rail transport is an opportunity that European countries, including Belgium, want to seize to enable new investments in their rail infrastructure and the development of the European network. The first meeting of the international rail passenger platform took place on 30 September. This initiative is now jointly chaired by the Netherlands and Austria. At this first meeting, the participating States were able to express their interest in the work and development of the platform, in particular by setting up four sub-groups in which Belgium will be represented at my request. These working groups will focus on issues such as digitisation and customer experience, the development of the international passenger transport network, the identification of infrastructure needs and the objectives of the Green Deal, as well as the establishment of a regulatory framework for international passenger transport. The working groups met for the first time at the end of November. Two new platform meetings are foreseen for mid-December 2020 and end of January 2021. The European Commission is very active in the further development of rail transport for both persons and goods. The Green Deal, the Connecting Europe Facility and the Recovery and Resilience Facility are programmes and political guidelines that reflect the European Commission's ambition for sustainable mobility on the European continent. Through these different programmes, the European Commission hopes to promote green investment, the optimisation of rail capacity use and the improvement of customer experience and of the essential elements for the proper functioning of international passenger transport. The European Commission is currently carrying out a study on cross-border long-distance trains, including night trains, the results of which should be published by the end of 2021. The FPS Mobility and Transport has also launched a study to analyse the possibilities of replacing short-haul flights with international trains. The results of that study are expected in summer 2021. Discussions on the European Year of Rail are still ongoing between the Council and the European Parliament. The budget for the next multiannual financial framework has not yet been established. There is no fixed funding at this stage of the discussions. The proposed envelope of EUR 8 million to support initiatives in the sector has so far been purely indicative. A national contact point will soon be identified where promoters can present their projects in the framework of the European Year of Rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u47	Minister, I am rarely so satisfied with an answer. When I hear about international trains, we can expect a lot in 2021. I hear you say that Belgium will also participate in the working groups, which will take place at the end of November and mid-December. We will hear more about the study of the night trains at the end of 2021. Halfway 2021, a study of our own FOD will be ready to replace short-haul flights with international trains. In addition, I hope that various initiatives will come to the attention of the national contact point which will soon be installed and with which we will draw attention to the year of the train. After a period when it was not obvious for our railway companies to continue to carry out their tasks, I think it could be a great reward if they were added to the picture next year. I would certainly also like to consider the possibility of making the train a very good year at European level from 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u48	Mr President, may I turn to the combined questions. 55010448C and 55010576C back? After all, Mr Demon is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u49	Mr President, excuse me for being a little late. I took part in another committee meeting. Minister, the city of Bruges was a pioneer in the development of an ambitious cycling policy in the context of a liveable city. Recently, the legislator laid down the possibility of setting up cycling zones. The road code stipulates that a zonal validity can be given to the traffic signs F111, start of a bicycle street and F113, end of a bicycle street. However, the Ministerial Decree of 11 October 1976 laying down the minimum dimensions and special conditions for the placing of road signs states in Article 6.7.5.1 that access to a zone may be subject to the introduction of a maximum of two regulations. However, in our inner city there are already two zones, in particular the tonnage ban 3.5 tonnes and the paying parking, combined with the zone 30. As a result, I feel that an additional zone as a cycling zone would not have been permitted by law. In our municipalities there are already two zones, namely a parking ban for vehicles of more than five tonnes and a blue zone, which would also prevent a third zone from being allowed there. In fact, we wish to maintain the already existing zonal restrictions in our city. Nevertheless, as part of the safety of the cyclists and of our ambition to transform Bruges even more into a cycling city, we would like to add the cycling zone. I therefore have four specific questions for you. Are you aware of the above-mentioned bottleneck in the legislation, which would prevent the ministerial decision on the ban on the use of bicycles in different cities? This is not only the case in Bruges but probably also in other places. Have you been in contact with your colleagues from the Flemish government to discuss this bottleneck? Do you believe that a cycling zone can be an exception to the ministerial decision on the place ban? Will you take steps to change the road code in that sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u50	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I think that the city of Bruges' ambition for a cycling zone is very positive. I thank Mr Demon and Mr Pille for their questions. Mr Demon, I know that the ministerial decision of 11 October 1976 restricts the number of zonal regulations which may be introduced at a certain place. As a reminder, the Ministerial Decree laying down the conditions for the placing of roadsigns has become a regional competence since the last state reform. That should be clear, but I know it's very complicated. Therefore, my excellent colleague, Mrs Lydia Peeters, Flemish Minister for Mobility, has the honour to amend this decision. The letter I received from the mayor of Bruges also indicated that the Department of Mobility and Public Works had already been informed. It can therefore be assumed that this has already come to the attention of Mrs Peeters' cabinet. I had a meeting yesterday with her and two other colleagues responsible for mobility in their region. We haven't talked about that, but it's her jurisdiction. The aim of limiting the number of zonal regulations is to keep it clear for road users. Nevertheless, it seems to me that identifying a cycling zone in a place where, for example, a sunny tonnage ban and a zonal parking regime already apply would confuse road users very much. As cycling zones promote active modes of transport and improve traffic quality, especially in an urban context such as in Bruges, I would argue that the legal obstacles to setting up cycling zones should be removed as far as possible. But, again, I'm not a Flemish Minister of Mobility. The initiative is for the regions. But I can say to Mrs Peeters that I am therefore in favour of such a reform of the code at Flemish level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u51	Minister, the only thing that was not clear to me was whether or not you spoke to Mrs Peeters yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u52	We didn't talk about that. It was a very positive and useful meeting in which many other subjects were discussed, but we did not discuss this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u53	Perhaps it would be a good idea to say with a letter or by e-mail that that question is there so that one can quickly work on it. After all, you know that there must then be discussions about this cycling area. It would be a good idea to have legal certainty so that we can introduce this in Bruges as soon as possible. A little push from you might help.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u54	I'll send her a message through WhatsApp.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u55	In the meantime, Minister, this question is already partially obsolete, because a new financial director has already been appointed. The previous director, Mr Henin, came from the cabinet of Minister Reynders. We see that the new director of the Magnette cabinet is coming. The policy of turning the door, that is what we call it, will therefore continue to last. I still have some questions about how the new financial director was appointed. Mr. Secretary, have you been briefed on Mr. Henin's departure? What's the reason he left? He's working for another institution now. Did he get an exit bonus? Or other extras? How was the successor chosen? Is the selection normally in the hands of a consultant agency or is something else going on? What will the salary package of the new financial director of SNCB look like? What are his tasks and assignments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u56	Minister, the situation has already been outlined. Hardly three days after Olivier Henin announced his resignation as financial director of SNCB, the name of his successor was already known. Olivier Henin is succeeded by Renaud Lorand. The rapid appointment of Renaud Lorand, who has been Director of Strategy and Legal Affairs at SNCB since 2018, raises some questions. The appointment of the outgoing CFO, Olivier Henin, took place in 2014 through a neutral selection agency, Russell Reynolds. Why did the open vacancy for SNCB's financial director not get completed through an open selection procedure this time? What are the reasons why SNCB's board of directors was so quick to appoint Mr Lorand as the CFO of SNCB? Was he the only candidate? Based on what qualifications was he chosen? Did he have to meet certain selection criteria? Is there a selection report or an evaluation report in this area? The man combines fairly heavy functions. Can't that create a problem? Are there practical or organisational arrangements? And as a bouncer, who will succeed him as Director of Strategy and Legal Affairs? Will an open selection procedure be followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u57	Mr. Chair, Minister, we were learning a few weeks ago about the departure and replacement of the Financial Director of SNCB. Indeed, the board of directors approved Sophie Dutordoir's proposal in this regard. If the profile of the new CFO appears to correspond to this position, and without prejudging its skills, the manner of doing so raises questions. No call for applications has, to our knowledge, been made for this position. A choice that comes at a time when ethics seems to me to take precedence. Mr Minister, you have repeated on many occasions – and I fully agree with your view on this point – that transparency must be complete in the decisions taken, in order to draw up – I quote – "the arrangements between friends that benefit some to the detriment of all others". When we know the past of the new director, who was chief of staff of Paul Magnette, then minister-president Wallon, and Jean-Claude Marcourt, then federal minister, we cannot help but wonder about the objective reasons for this choice. Could you explain to us how this appointment was made, who was associated with it and to what extent? Have any other persons been considered for this position? If so, how did the selection proceed? Can you tell us if this procedure is usual for appointments within the company? If this is not the case, can you give us a detailed description of the traditional procedure and the reasons why it was not followed? If this is the usual method, do you believe that it guarantees all the necessary transparency and objectivity for such decisions? Would a change not be appropriate for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Olivier Henin, the current Director General of Finance, a member of the SNCB's management committee, has indeed submitted his resignation, by letter of 26 October 2020, to the company's delegated administrator, in order – and this is his strictest right – to take up another professional challenge outside the company. By mutual agreement, this resignation shall take effect from 31 December of this year. Mr Henin will not be entitled to severance pay since it is due only if the termination of the term of office is the result of a decision to dismiss the Board of Directors. For the rest, reference should be made to the legal prescription. As stipulated in the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises, it is for the board of directors to appoint or revoke the members of the management committee of SNCB. Pursuant to Article 162c, the Management Board shall appoint the members of the Management Committee on a proposal from the director by delegation and after obtaining an opinion from the appointment and remuneration committee. That's how the law rules. Since the company faces major challenges, including financial ones, on the one hand due to the corona crisis and on the other hand due to the major mobility challenges, which are included in the government agreement, the managing director felt that the function needed to be completed quickly in order to ensure the stability and continuity of the company. Mrs Dutordoir informed me about the context and her vision during our bilateral exchanges. On 30 October, the director by delegation requested the appointment and remuneration committee to give its opinion on the reasoned proposal for the replacement of the Director-General for Finance. The Committee gave a favourable opinion. Subsequently, the Management Board unanimously agreed to the proposal of the delegated director to appoint the proposed internal candidate, who has all the necessary technical and management skills, in particular Mr Renaud Lorand. The appointment shall take effect on 1 January 2021. Finally, the appointment was communicated internally and externally. In accordance with Article 162d, the rights, including the remuneration and mutual obligations of the members of the Management Committee on the one hand and of SNCB on the other, shall be governed by a special agreement between the parties concerned. In accordance with Article 162b, the members of the Management Committee shall form a college and may divide the tasks among themselves and delegate certain powers, which they shall do here. Finally, I would like to point out that this is not a precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. To be honest, I find it very strange that there was only one candidate. The speed with which everything has happened also raises a lot of questions about the appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. You refer to existing procedures and legislation, but they did not prevent us from working in a different way last time. In fact, an independent selection agency was set up at the time. If we talk about the great challenges and the need for stability, we can justify any appointment in the future. I'm just finding that cabintards can still easily hopping jobs from one top position in the government to another. They also often combine different top jobs. The political appointments are apparently smoother than some trains run. I regret that there has not been a normal open selection procedure and I hope that it will be possible to change these appointments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I am concerned about two things. First of all, in your opinion, the managing director "quickly wanted to find a successor to ensure continuity". You then add that the AC was unanimous. I confess that I do not know what is happening internally on the Board of Directors of SNCB, since I do not have access to the PVs of its meetings. Honestly, I would like to read about it in order to understand this unanimity. If, for you, to appoint a financial director of SNCB, in the middle of the period VOCID, without a call for applications, in the political inter-self, it is a matter of good governance, for me it reflects rather an ethical derailment, contrary to the procedures. Now, I remind you, they exist! Indeed, the previous financial director had been appointed following a selection through an independent headhunters office. You cannot call loud and clear, as you did when you sat as a Member of Parliament that "transparency must be complete" and that "you must stop arrangements between friends" - these are your words - and then endorse exactly the opposite once you have become a Minister! [[It's the famous "do what I say, not what I do."]] In this case, the only objective evidence for me, minister, is that of the Prince. If you, the former singer of good governance, dear to your party – at least, in words – betray this principle, you obviously deny that word. And you'll drag this betrayal like a rock into your shoe! Believe me, even for the first of the railwaymen you're supposed to be, a rock in a shoe, it doesn't help to walk straight or keep your head high!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u62	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr. De Maegd, because his emphasis doesn't impress me at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u63	Minister, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u64	Mr. President, this is a personal fact. So, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u65	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u66	One can sacrifice to the emphasis, and it is very easy to make handle effects. Mr. De Maegd is very strong in this area. As I explained in my answer - but perhaps I spoke in Dutch, so that he did not follow my words - the law was strictly enforced. I should simply remind him that the Board of Directors of SNCB is composed of representatives of different parties, including a member of its formation as Chairman of the Board, while no environmental member is present at this stage. In short, Mr De Maegd, I think you can address your intent trials to those concerned, rather than to the minister who is in front of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u67	Since Parliament has the last word, I give the floor to Mr. From Maegd, then we will stop any controversy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u68	Minister, thank you for your reply. I assure you: in my head, there is no emphasis, but a simple indignation before the procedure. I'm so sorry! Transparency is transparency. Since you say that unanimity has been reached on the board of directors, I would like to have access to its PVs. In my view, for such a procedure, unanimity is impossible, since, earlier, it happened very differently, since the selection was carried out independently by an office of head hunters. I want you to introduce me to the board of directors and I'll believe you on your word – but not before.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u69	I absolutely do not accept that you put my word in doubt! I invite you to address the representative of your party on the board of directors. I have no difficulty in principle in making this decision public. I do not see how, as a minister, I would say that there is unanimity when it does not exist. I don't know what world you live in, Mr. De Maegd! This is not the first time that you have written such matamoresic words, which really do not correspond to anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u70	Minister, I cannot accept you telling me that I am the author of "matamoresque" words. It's an insult to me. That's not true! That's deeply wrong! I would remind you that Parliament's task is to monitor the actions of the government - in case you fail to do so, minister. Because now, really, anger is slowly rising. I tell you sincerely that I will not believe you on the floor, because I think that in a rule of law, as we know it, there is a need for transparency and governance, as you have always advocated as a Member of Parliament. You must also advocate him as a minister. And that's not what you do! I don't agree! Anger awakens in me when I hear you with words of "matamoresic statements." That's not true! I protest against that. I'm just telling you that for me, this procedure has derailed and you'll drag it like a rock in a shoe, quite simply. Now assume! You're not a congressman anymore. It was easy, when you were a member of parliament, to say, "You need transparency, no arrangements between friends" and, once you are a minister, turn a blind eye to this kind of practice. I'm sorry, I disagree. I say it loud and clear. It's my role as a parliamentarian. If you think these are matamores, I leave your appreciation to you, but I do not share it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u71	Mr Minister, some colleagues are asking me what time you intend to answer the questions. Can you tell me that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u72	Until 5:45.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u73	Mr President, Minister, the coalition agreement contains two sentences on this subject, and I quote: 'We are working towards a solution to the problem of noise pollution and the legal uncertainty facing Brussels national airport. The government is working out a draft balanced flight law." As much as I like the coalition agreement, I think that is a very short quote for a very big problem facing the inhabitants of part of Flemish Brabant. We, too, want a balanced flight law, but first the problems must be solved by routes which unfairly burden certain groups of people, municipalities and neighbourhoods more than others. I have asked your predecessor several times about solving the unfair route Leuven Straight ahead, which has been in use since March 2014 and about the noise caused by this route. I am referring to the concentration of landing aircraft, but since March 2014 all take-off aircraft, all of which go in a very narrow corridor over a limited number of municipalities. Last year, Envisa published an independent environmental impact study on noise, on which your predecessor constantly said he could no longer work with it. I'm afraid he wanted to wait until his successor got on with it. In what way will you address this problem? I trust you will deal with the problem. What measures will you take? Will you continue working on the Envisa study?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, this is dealt with in detail in my policy paper. The situation is not easy. We need to re-record the dialogue, with respect for all the people who are affected by the noise of the aircraft. In order to work out a balanced flight law, it is first of all important to define the criteria by which it can be determined whether there is balance. As emphasised in the Envisa study several criteria can be used, for example the absolute number of flights versus the reduction of the most noisy flights and the damage. The current government will take steps in this direction. That's my commitment. The need to reach as much prior agreement as possible on the criteria to be applied is obvious, although the Envisa study, carried out by one of the government's independent bodies, is the subject of criticism in a dispute procedure. There is some contradiction between asking for an immediate, balanced solution for Leuven Straight ahead or developing a balanced draft flight law for the whole of Belgium, as my predecessor Mr Bellot suggested as Envisa. Only a global solution, which is the result of agreement, will make it possible that other residents in their turn would not feel harmed by decisions taken, which will almost always have an impact on other flight routes due to the intertwinedness and complexity of the routes in Belgium. Finally, I note that the dispute procedure with regard to Leuven Straight has not yet been concluded and that, at present, there is no final decision condemning the Belgian State to the specific modification of that route.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u75	Mr Minister, I note that you must certainly improve me if I am wrong to say that you want to set a number of criteria in order to objectively determine the noise level before taking a decision on a flight law. That's how I understood it. If that happens, you will certainly find a supporter in our region for the time being. We do not want all aircraft to be taken over our heads. Let's make that very clear. That's not the intention of East Flemish Brabant. We do want a very fair spread, which has not been there since 2014. A number of municipalities are barely getting over a flight and a limited number of municipalities are getting over all flights. That injustice now exists for six years. We want it solved. If I understand you correctly, it is the intention to set objective criteria for this and you will certainly find a supporter in us. We shall certainly come back to that, Minister. I haven't heard any timing. That disappoints me a little bit, but I will at least question you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u76	Président: M. Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u77	Minister, the reopening of the railway line between Valenciennes and Mons is a project that I have supported since I was a member of the House in 2007. I have asked the various ministers of mobility who have preceded you so that a positive outcome can be achieved, but unfortunately there is still a lot of work to be done. For several years now, there has been a ping-pong game between Belgium and France on this issue. When, on the French side, financing is settled, it is no longer on the Belgian side; when it is on the Belgian side, it is no longer on the French side. Today, expectations are clearly focused on the French state. The silence of the SNCF and the relevant regional authorities casts doubt on the successful outcome of this project. There is indeed a risk that the French Government will no longer support investments in certain rural areas, including those that would allow the freight line between Valenciennes and Mons to be reopened. For Belgium, things seem more positive. The cooperation agreement on the financing of strategic rail infrastructure from 2018 to 2031 includes this project as one of its priorities. In particular, the Walloon Government agreed in principle on co-financing of the work. However, as Walloon Minister Philippe Henry recently pointed out, this agreement is conditional "on the response of the French authorities to the planning and budget available". To date, however, no response has been received. Mr Minister, are there any contacts between Infrabel, SNCF and the French regional authorities responsible for this issue? Do you have any information on the French position to date? In view of the federal government's agreement to "substantial improvement in rail freight transport with a view to doubling its volume by 2030", do you intend to make this matter a priority? If so, what initiatives do you intend to take in the coming weeks to relaunch this project to reopen the freight line between Valenciennes and Mons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u78	Mr President, thank you. Good morning, minister, it's been a long time since I had the opportunity to ask you questions. So it's a pleasure to be able to do it again. In 2018, the Walloon Minister of Mobility announced that he had signed an agreement with France concerning the reopening of the cross-border line between Mons and Valenciennes, for the transport of goods. The work was supposed to start in 2019 or 2020 with a total budget of EUR 19 million, including 16 from France and 3 from Wallonia. It comes to my mind that work is soon planned at the station of Quiévrain by Infrabel as well as on the French side, preventing the overtaking of the trains beyond that same station and thus risking to cut off possible relations Outre-Quievrain. Minister, what can you tell us about this work planned by Infrabel? Are they compatible with the planned reopening of the Mons-Valenciennes cross-border line? What about the work done on the French side?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u79	Colleagues, it is a pleasure to answer your questions on an important subject. With regard to this project to reopen the Mons-Valenciennes cross-border line, Infrabel informs me that, on the Belgian side, everything is prepared from a financial and technical point of view. However, studies and work will only start logically if, on the SNCF side, solid guarantees are provided and notified for the reconstruction of the section between Blanc-Misseron and the border. There is no point in building cul-de-sac lines. On the Belgian side, we will not anticipate the construction of the section between Quiévrain and the border, but it will remain programmed. The work carried out on or near this line, Ms. Leroy, takes into account the future Mons-Valenciennes link and does not endanger this project. Our government and I are committed to a proactive policy on rail freight transport in order to double the volume of rail freight by 2030, which requires not only infrastructure - we are working on it - but also a commitment from companies - we are also working on it. Given Belgium's geographical position, this objective can only be achieved with the help of our European partners and, a fortiori and to begin with, countries bordering Belgium. Therefore, the project to reopen the railway line between Valenciennes and Mons is fully in line with this objective. The contact was established with the French minister delegated to the Transports, Jean-Baptiste Djebari, who was one of the first to write to me. Maybe it's a good sign! I have responded equally cordially, but we have not yet had the opportunity to address this issue. It is true that I have only been here for two months, but I have no doubt that this can be done in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u80	Minister, thank you. I hope we'll have a comeback from you when you get in touch with your French counterpart because I think everything is ready on the Belgian side. You confirmed it. It would therefore be a real shame that today we cannot benefit from this reopening of the line, which is in line with progress and greater use of rail for freight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u81	Minister, I had no doubt about this proactivity. The news is good. We will, of course, follow up and I will be quick to relay this information to the people who were wondering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u82	There is a great deal of interest today in cross-border rail links.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u83	Mr President, Minister, I have recently questioned your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, to express to him the concern of the officers of the Mons Railway Police who fear the disappearance of their police station in favour of the only post in Charleroi. This disappearance would inevitably create negative repercussions for our region of Mons-Borinage and, in particular, for the Mons-Quévy police zone. The latter runs the risk of being faced with an explosion of tasks and an increase in operating costs, not to mention the longer response times. This is a scenario that I cannot resolve to accept, both for the strength of the Mons-Quévy police zone, but also for the many travellers, of whom I am a member, who are at risk of being penalized, all the more so since Mons will soon have, even if the project takes a long time to materialize, a new station whose traffic density and traffic density are likely to increase. In this fight for the maintenance of the railway police station in Mons, it seems essential to me that SNCB should position itself and provide its support. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Are representatives of SNCB and d-Infrabel participating in the discussions alongside the supervisory authorities responsible for the reform of the Railway Police? If so, is support for maintaining the Montois position defended? According to the Minister of the Interior, the decision to set up a police station within a station depends in particular on the provision of police-friendly premises by SNCB. In this context, can you ensure that SNCB will respond favourably to this requirement for Mons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u84	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the so-called "Duquesne" circular of 2002 distributes the police missions on the railway field between the Railway Police and the local police. In summary, it is envisaged that the Railway Police will be the first service responsible for railway-related phenomena as such or taking place on tracks or trains. The local police are responsible for the crime phenomena, unrelated to the railways, which take place in the railway stations. The circular provides for exceptions for about ten so-called "at-risk" stations in which the Railway Police is in charge of all safety and must provide a reception for victims of an offence. The station of Mons is one of these stations, according to this circular of 2002. In 2018, the Railway Police provided SNCB with a draft of new circulars aimed at reorganizing the Railway Police, including the transfer of the security of all stations to local police areas and the removal of the concept of reception posts at railway stations. It appeared that this text had not been approved by the local police, nor signed by the Minister of the Interior, but that the Railway Police had begun to implement it on the ground, as you know, it seems to me. SNCB had the opportunity to communicate its comments (more than 90). To date, she has not returned, except that she has learned that a police task force had been established to look into the draft text. It is really important and urgent that the situation be clarified and that all partners be involved, as explicitly provided for in the Police Function Act. The situation is worrying in some stations from which the Railway Police have already withdrawn, either totally, as is the case in Leuven, or partly, as is the case in Mons. Such withdrawals, which were not in accordance with the current circular, were generally not offset by the resumption of missions by the local police, and only interventions for the most serious incidents were still ensured. To answer your question explicitly, what is important for SNCB is not to know which police service will be competent or present at a particular station; what is essential is that the new division of duties and, ultimately, the positioning of Railway Police stations not only ensure police intervention throughout the rail sector within a reasonable time frame, but also that sufficient preventive patrols are present at the stations. SNCB has been making facilities available to the Railway Police since 1999, when a protocol was signed between the parties. Since 2010, despite the absence of a signature on the protocol of the time, SNCB has continued to apply the protocol which has become obsolete. When a space request is made, SNCB makes every effort to respond positively, depending on the space available. On the other hand, some areas have sometimes been planned but have not been occupied by the Railway Police. SNCB is convinced that the presence of the Railway Police and a police station accessible to SNCB clients and residents is a positive service for its clients. I share his point of view. The Railway Police did not confirm the need for space in the new station in Mons – which is also another subject of debate, Mr Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u85	Minister, thank you for all this clarification. I'll come back to you on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u86	Mr President, I am certainly still present in the sitting and listen carefully to the interesting questions put by Members. Mr Minister, I have a question about ticket sales, which, of course, is an important source of revenue for SNCB. In 2019, SNCB sold almost €880 million in tickets. SNCB has also stated that, following the corona crisis in 2020, it fears an operational deficit of around EUR 300 million. I would have liked to have heard from you the following. What is the turnover of SNCB per product and per province? I will spare you the need to read out all the figures and suggest that you provide the data to the secretariat. The government agreement also talks about the introduction of variable ticket prices. How do you see that? Has SNCB already made simulations of the possible evolution of turnover in the event of such a change? What are the results of that? What is your personal policy vision on the variation of ticket prices? There are two possible logics in this respect. You enter a demand-driven tariff system, where prices increase in peak hours and decrease in off-peak hours according to demand, or alternatively you provide that supply-driven work and the cost coverage of a train connection is looked at. This would mean that lower prices would be applied during peak hours and higher prices during off-peak hours. I would have liked to have heard your preference in this matter. Finally, SNCB reminds us with the regularity of a clock that ticket prices in this country are structurally lower than abroad. Are you open, in your capacity as guardian minister, to the idea that the introduction of variable ticket prices includes an increase in the average price level or do you wish to exclude such an increase in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u87	Mr. Roggeman, your face is half in sight. I'm just gonna give it to you, because maybe that's not the point. Minister, you may answer the many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u88	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, it is important that I can hear you. I have heard you correctly and will therefore answer your questions. Mr Roggeman, as has been reported, SNCB is preparing to open up the domestic rail sector. In this context, SNCB has decided to show some restraint in the general public's awareness of commercial and business-sensitive data. It therefore considers some data to be purely internal data. The best way to increase SNCB's own income is to lure more people to the train and not raise the rates. I have already explained this in connection with the discussion of my policy paper. It is rather intended to make the tickets cheaper in the off-peak hours, when the trains are empty, or are army. Nothing has yet been decided on in this file. I still have to talk to SNCB in order to put this into practice. A project has been launched within SNCB to examine the flexibility of products and prices. Flexibility in the introduction of variable prices is not only due to peak periods and non-peak periods. We work at different levels. We constantly analyse our product range, the SNCB tells me, and test it against the needs of customers and society. This may result in us adapting current products and/or implementing new products. The tariff structure is inextricably linked to our product range. A possible introduction of variable ticket prices will be an adjustment of our product range. What such products and variability will look like, and what the average impact is for the customer and for SNCB, is not yet known. Therefore, Mr Roggeman, we will do our best for the customers and to get more customers on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u89	Thank you, Minister. I wouldn't have had to do that much suspense right now. I would now like a little more concrete answers to my questions. The fact that SNCB does not yet have an idea of how it will reform its prices, I can understand that. If she really is at such an early stage of that exercise, I can understand that. I regret, however, that she calls for confidentiality regarding the sale of tickets by province. I do not think this is necessary, especially since it calls on the preparation of market release. That surprises me, as I was still able to hear very few intentions in the coalition agreement and in your policy statement. But that's a theme I'd like to come back to later. I find it a bit regrettable that, in this context, SNCB refuses to release such general data as the figures for sales per province. Should I now ask for the sale by station, I could understand that it was about detailed product and commercial information, but I am asking for cumulative data at provincial level. Moreover, we all know that you have postponed the introduction of the market liberalisation by 10 years. I would be very surprised if, within 13 years, a competitor would rely on figures from a decade and a half ago, cumulatively per province, broken down by ticket formulas that no longer exist at all in the light of the reform you are preparing. I wouldn't settle for that apology. In future, I will continue to press for that data to be made available. Let us be honest: these are crucial aspects of the supply, including for policy implementation, also for large, crucial, strategic decisions on the supply of new stations and so on. That may be a bit attuned to the sale of the products and in proportion to the demand. I understand that SNCB is on the brakes for that. I hope, Minister, that you do not share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u90	Mr Minister, ten years after the issue of the first copies, the first electronic driving licences of the type of bank card have been issued. After ten years, an electronic driving licence has to be renewed at the town hall, but unfortunately there is no notice of this. This is a remarkable decision of the FPS Mobility and Transport, which is also incomprehensible to many cities and municipalities. They believe that citizens should be informed at least once. Many drivers will only find that the validity date of the driving licence has expired in the event of a road check or an accident, which can cause the person concerned to suffer. Driving with a expired driving licence means as much as sending without a valid driving licence and the penalties are not lenient. There are also consequences for insurance: insurance is only provided if it is valid in traffic. The cities and municipalities are in favour of a system of call-up, as is the case for the renewal of the identity card. An earlier question from former colleague Nele Lijnen shows that it is practically possible to link the address list to the data of the driving licence. However, the period of validity varies according to the type of driving licence and sometimes depends on, for example, a medical examination, professional competence or a pronounced penalty, which means that a reminder system was not used. In the meantime, the government agreement talks about simplifying the procedure for extending a driving licence, hence a number of questions, Minister. Will you work on an automatic notification system at the end of the validity of the electronic driving licence? What concrete steps are you taking in this regard? Also for medical decay, no memory is sent. What is your view on this? Is it feasible to send a reminder for this too? Finally, what is the reason why an electronic driving licence, unlike a paper licence, expires after 10 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u91	Mrs Verhaert, it is a very interesting question. I have learned a lot from the answer prepared by the FPS Mobility. No address data is currently stored in the crossroads bank of driving licences. There is no legal basis for this. Nor can the address details of licence holders be accessed through the crossroads bank. The FPS Mobility and Transport is therefore not authorised to request such data to send reminders to the holders of a driving licence whose administrative validity is likely to expire. That's different from an I.D. An address is by definition available in the case of an identity card, not in the case of a driving licence. A driving licence is therefore not an obligation for any citizen, unlike the electronic identity card. Only drivers of a motor vehicle must carry a valid driving licence in the cases determined by the King. Everyone can therefore decide not to renew his driving licence and not to drive a motor vehicle anymore. Instead of investing in sending a letter, the FPS Mobility and Transport is currently investing in a project to introduce an online application procedure for driving licences and provisional driving licences to make life easier for citizens. That's very positive. The project was included in the general policy paper. It should facilitate not only the renewal of driving licences already issued, but the application for all driving licences and provisional driving licences. Since the period of validity of the first card models of the driving licence is now, after 10 years, an information campaign will soon be launched. Following the first renewal round, it will be evaluated whether additional steps are necessary and useful. In addition, licence holders shall not be notified when the validity of their fitness test and/or proof of professional competence expires. In most of these cases, the administrative period of validity continues for the vehicle categories for which no assessment of fitness for driving and/or proof of professional competence is required. Proactively informing licence holders about the validity of their driving licence, but not about the fitness to drive and/or professional competence would cause unnecessary confusion. In addition, not all driving licences are valid for 10 years. Their validity may be limited on the basis of the holder's fitness to drive. For example, drivers with certain conditions receive a driving licence with a period of validity of 5 years or less, sometimes only 1, 2 or 3 years. For administrative or criminal reasons, the period of validity of a driving licence or certain categories listed therein may also be limited. The administrative period of 10 years was introduced following the transposition of the European Directive 2006/126 into Belgian law. That Directive imposes an administrative period of validity of 15 or 10 years on the driving licences of all EU Member States. For example, the European Union wants to enable the latest measures to prevent, apply and carry out medical examinations or other measures adopted by the Member States at the time of the periodic renewal. Since Belgium wished to align the validity of driving licences and electronic identity cards, so that both documents would be renewable at the same time for reasons of administrative simplification, driving licences were also chosen for a period of 10 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answers. I'm looking forward to the renewal system. In my view, the public certainly welcomes the simplification and digitisation of the system. Sending a reminder I continue to advocate, because that is a testament to a customer-friendly government. That is why I would ask you once again to consider this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u93	Minister, the punctuality of trains has improved considerably over the past year, but the Kempense passengers to Brussels do not notice that. The rush train from Brussels to Mol scores the worst figures of all Flanders. Only one day in four the train is on time. The Brussels-Turnhout section, which forms part of the rush train, is most often affected by delays. This is already apparent from the figures before the corona crisis and has been on the agenda several times in this committee. However, the connections to the Kempen have great potential. However, this potential is not sufficiently exploited by the use of old equipment and underinvestment. It is not only very old equipment, the two large transfer stations Lier and Herentals are also in urgent need of investment. These investments will not only improve passenger comfort, but also improve punctuality. The transport plan 2020-2023 already brings some improvements for the Kempen. With the electrification of the route to Hamant, it is now the time to invest extra in the Kempense tracks. This electrification also creates additional potential for the region, in particular a cross-border connection to Weert. This ambition is included in the Dutch coalition agreement, which has also been studied. This would not only make travelers easy to get to Weert, it also opens up a great potential to travel to Eindhoven, Rotterdam or even Amsterdam. Minister, what are your ambitions for the Kempen train? What investments will be made in the coming years at the stations in the Kempen? Will the equipment on the Kempense tracks be renewed? What ambition do you have in this matter? Do you acknowledge that the connection Hamont-Weert has great potential? Will you work with your Dutch colleagues to investigate and realize this connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u94	Mrs Verhaert, you know that I have a great deal of ambition for the train throughout Belgium, including in the Kempen. We discussed this in detail in committee last week. As I was allowed to say in this committee on 10 November, the punctuality of the trains in the Kempen in general and on the Turnhout-Binche line in particular remains a concern for myself as well as for all Kempenaars. SNCB hopes to be able to propose a structural solution for passengers on this line by 2023. We have debated this. As far as rolling stock is concerned, it is my intention to improve this for everyone throughout the network, both in the Kempen and in Wallonia or Brussels. This is, after all, a necessary step to improve reliability and punctuality on the whole network. SNCB informs me that she is also well aware of the demand from the Kempen for the most modern train equipment. There are currently six trains on the Turnhout-Binche route with M6 double deck equipment with air conditioning. Between Turnhout and Brussels there are also busy trains with air conditioning. Under the new transport plan, some older M4 sets will be replaced by double deck equipment. That's good news for you and all Kempenaars. You will understand that it is not possible, in the context of the answer to an oral parliamentary question and the scope provided for in the Rules of Procedure, to give an overview of all the investments planned in the Kempen. You can always ask me a written question on that. As far as the Hamant-Weert link is concerned, it is therefore too early to make concrete statements. I have already replied in general. I can only add that I am aware of the questions raised in the Kempen and of the parliamentary initiatives that exist around this. It is also important to reiterate what I have included in my policy statement on regional, cross-border connections, in particular that I will examine, on a case-by-case basis, the possibilities for improving these rail links and for valorising the existing rail network.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I may have told the story a little laughable last week, but it is so poignant that when one travels to the Kempen one needs a ladder and boots at the crossing and one cannot plan the agenda too tight, because punctuality is dramatic. I will certainly put a written question on the investments still planned for the Kempen. There have indeed been improvements, but I think it can be done much better. If we want to convince the passengers to choose the track instead of the car, we will still have to invest heavily in the Kempen to make that jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u96	Mr President, Minister, in Hasselt, some 600 metres from the Veldstraat motorway, there was a collision between four freight wagons and a passenger train on Saturday afternoon 24 October. For an unknown reason, the freight wagons had come loose on an Infrabel site and ended up in service on a railroad. The signal house in Hasselt sent out an alarm signal and the driver of the train on his way from Blankenberge to Hasselt could carry out an emergency braking. After the passenger train had come to a standstill, a collision with the freight wagon followed at low speed. There was only canning damage and no one was injured. Luckily in an accident, because if the stop signal had been sent a little later or if the train had been a little further along the route, the consequences could have been much more dramatic. The accident raises many questions regarding safety for rail passengers. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you give me more details on the causes of the accident? Normally, shoes are used to prevent ghost trains. However, shoes should not be used everywhere. Was there a shoe used in these wagons? Why is that? Why is that? If not, could a shoe have avoided this accident? There are systems, such as ATBS, to prevent ghost trains. What measures are being taken to prevent ghost trains in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u97	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, perhaps you will be a little disappointed in my reply, as I cannot provide information on a specific incident. The responsibility for carrying out investigations lies with other services. I must remind you that the Investigation Body for Accidents and Incidents on the Track is hierarchically independent of the Minister of Mobility and of the FPS Mobility and Transport. My excellent colleague, Mrs De Sutter, is responsible for this, so you must address your question to Mrs De Sutter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u98	I will certainly do so, Minister, because safety on and off the track is of course very important. With a view to avoiding such incidents in the future, I am also curious about possible solutions. I will therefore certainly address the question to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u99	Mr Minister, the government agreement rightly attaches great importance to the development of rail freight transport, as part of the solution to the problems of congestion, air pollution and so on. The corona crisis has hit rail freighters, who were already in a financially vulnerable situation before the crisis. For example, Lineas had to knock on the FPIM's door for financial support, representing a market share of 70%. The federal support for combined and distributed rail freight was also extended by this Commission until 2021, but does not provide a structural solution. The coalition agreement provides for an evaluation of that subsidy mechanism. In the long term, and not just for freight transport, we need to reduce road costs. An EU regulation has therefore allowed Member States to reduce road charges in a transparent, objective and non-discriminatory manner, in order to give rail freighters some oxygen in these difficult times. In concrete terms, the sector is asking for a full remission for the second half of 2020 and a half by 2021, which represents an impact of two times 15 million. Your predecessor, Mr. Bellot, was fond of that idea. Minister, will you continue to work in this direction? Has Infrabel already been instructed to provide the necessary data and will the draft law necessary to implement the option offered by the EU in Belgian law be submitted soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u100	Thank you for your question, Mrs Verhaert. It is my ambition, in consultation with all players, to draw up a real plan of concrete actions to reorient rail freight transport and to double the volume of goods transported by rail. That plan is intended to be comprehensive. It will include, in particular, investment measures in the field of infrastructure and will aim at promoting innovation and digitisation in the sector. The current distribution and combined freight support system will also need to be evaluated and proposals will need to be made to improve its efficiency in the future. It also finalizes a draft law setting up a system to provide financial support to the sector, encouraging it to invest in a braking system that reduces noise in rail transport. The draft law must be submitted to Parliament before the end of the year. Moreover, in order to mitigate the impact of the health crisis, from my arrival I have obtained the principle of compensating Infrabel's losses, which makes it possible not to invoice the cancellation of train paths and administrative costs to railway operators until the end of September 2020, which has an impact of -3.3 million euros for freight transport. My administration is examining the legal feasibility of drastically reducing the amount of fees for the year 2020. Contacts were also made with Infrabel to determine the cost and technical feasibility of the measures. I will not hide the fact that the timing is extremely tight: on the one hand, the European regulation allowing the reduction of the levy on access to rail infrastructure for 2020 entered into force on 13 October, on the other hand, Belgium has to switch to a new charging system in December. So there are many projects on the table that will have to be implemented in the coming months. Choices will have to be made with regard to priorities. I am in principle in favour of specific support for the rail sector in the context of the health crisis, but I do not yet express an opinion on the best way to get there. Unfortunately, it's a little early.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u101	Mr Minister, there are indeed many initiatives, but many other countries have already presented us, for example Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands and Austria, with regard to the partial or total cancellation of allowances. The feasibility is being examined, but I hope that you will come forward with positive news in the short term. This is really necessary in the interests of freight transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u102	Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you warmly on your position as Deputy Prime Minister in the government. I haven't seen or heard from you yet. I wish you every success in your policy on the exciting subject of mobility. I have a question about the airport, which is very prominently present in Flemish Brabant. DHL is an important employer in Belgium. Because of the covid pandemic, we see that civil aviation is almost completely still, but that the cargo is running well and even better than before. DHL provides 5,000 direct jobs and also creates a number of thousands of indirect jobs. In recent years DHL invested more than €1 billion in the purchase of new aircraft Boeing 777 through a joint venture with Lufthansa AeroLogic. These are low-noise and environmentally friendly cargo aircraft, which reduce CO2 emissions by at least 18% compared to the current aircraft used. For the full DHL Group, it is now about more than 30 aircraft. Of those 30 planes, 10 aircraft are licensed to land here at night today. DHL submitted a list of 16 aircraft in the spring, but does not receive certification for the other aircraft on the list, i.e. permission from DGLV to land here. As a result, DHL still lands here and takes off with noisy devices, such as the Boeing 747................................................................................................................................................................................................. This has to do with the planning at DHL. Planes are making quite a tour around the world. For example, it cannot always be taken into account whether a silent aircraft is indeed one of the ten certified aircraft for a flight from a particular continent with landing in Leipzig and then here. Mr Minister, it is incomprehensible that when a company like DHL invests here in new cheaper and noise-depleting aircraft, these aircraft cannot all land here, so that our environment is still subject to a heavy burden and people living around still suffer far more noise pollution than necessary. What is the reason for the lack of permits to make the 16 Boeing 777 Freighters operational at our national airport? That file's been stuck for months. I have already received emails in May and June of this year, but apparently nothing is moving. What are the arguments for dragging the procedure? What steps can DHL take to ensure that the already announced environmentally friendly aircraft are recognised as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u103	Thank you for your words, Mr Vandenput. Becoming a Minister of Mobility is sometimes a difficult but certainly fascinating legacy. The files for DHL's aircraft are not blocked. The aircraft can be operated nationally in Brussels, as can the aircraft of other airlines, within the limits of the regulations and their noise certification. DGLV is not competent to take a decision on this matter. The Ministerial Decision on the management of noise pollution at Brussels Airport does not confer any discretion on the Belgian State. There is no provision for a possible derogation in this case. It is the responsibility of the airport to maintain the existing environmental rules in accordance with the operating conditions of the airport. If DHL AeroLogic considers that the interpretation of the rules adopted by the airport is incorrect, it will have to challenge that interpretation first from the person who took the contested action, for example the refusal to allow a flight. Only then can the case be referred to the authority responsible for monitoring compliance with the operating conditions of the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u104	Minister, I understand your brief answer, but I would like to go into the matter further. DHL informed me that the DGLV, whose company has been authorised to land these aircraft in the past, is dealing with the dossier relating to six additional aircraft. I am therefore somewhat surprised to hear that DGLV is not competent, but rather the airport. I will now contact the airport to see what can be done. Then I can ask you a written question and follow up on the situation. Thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u105	Minister, it is my responsibility that the Federal Ombudsman of the National Airport, Philippe Touwaide, recently sent a new letter to the federal authorities of Mobility and the Directorate-General for Air Transport to testify of the "cohue and non-compliance with health measures" at Zaventem airport in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic, during the recent weekend. The following facts were found: chaos in the VOCID tests, denial of boarding, delays in the results of the tests, failure to comply with health regulations, lack of masks and social distancing. The Federal Ombudsman pointed out, and rightly so, that compliance with the VOCID measures is an elementary principle of precaution, based on the royal decrees made pursuant to the decisions of the Concertation Committee, and states that his service has received numerous complaints over the past few weeks. Therefore, Minister, can you please let me know whether you have taken the necessary steps to ensure that all the health rules laid down by the Minister of the Interior are strictly observed in all the facilities at Brussels-National Airport? Do you intend to remind the management of Brussels Airport Company of these facts so that these serious shortcomings, if confirmed, do not happen again? Could you also clarify the role of the testing centre in the airport for travellers leaving Belgium and also for those returning from red areas, particularly as part of the new testing strategy? Can we hope to receive support from the future federal testing platform, which we are talking about a lot, in terms of passenger testing. If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u106	Mrs Rohonyi; the difficulties you describe are very real. As soon as I became aware of it, I contacted the airport operators. They assure me that they continue to work to improve processes. These events are regrettable, but seem relatively exceptional. It's happy! Since the beginning of the health crisis, the airport has adopted preventive measures at the request of my predecessor, which ensure compliance with health rules, with the help and control of the federal police. In order to further improve the overall situation and to avoid the difficulties you have just described, the airport operator has put in place an action plan in consultation with all the players in the airport community and in particular with the federal police responsible for compliance with health rules, particularly with regard to physical distancing. I can mention a few measures in this action plan: - make the necessary adjustments to ensure that the safety checks are sufficiently staffed and sufficiently personal in accordance with the expected traffic; - on peak days, ask the Federal Police to provide for two additional officers to avoid waiting times at border controls; - in the case of aircraft engaged in long-distance flights, they shall be distributed over the whole of boarding pier B in order to ensure maximum dispersal of passengers over the entire surface of the boarding pier; - passengers entering this embarkation pier B are recorded at the entrance and the number of passengers is then followed in order to meet the maximum capacity of just under 2,000 persons by restricting access to the boarding area if necessary; - additional stewards have also been provided and a supervisory staff has been set up according to the expected influx. It seems that these measures have borne fruit, since they were implemented on the weekend of 21 and 22 November, we no longer have to deplore any incidents. Finally, I can tell you that the airport operator has, we believe, complied with its obligations in the fight against the spread of the virus through the few measures that I will remind you. It has also created an environment that allows travellers to travel safely even if, at the end, it is the individual behaviour of each person that will ensure that the prescribed rules are followed. Preventive measures adopted since the beginning of the health crisis include: - the obligation of physical distancing of 1.5 metres, which everyone is familiar with today; - the mandatory wearing of the mouth mask in the terminal will not surprise you; - temperature control for all passengers on departure and arrival; - lots of stickers on the ground reminding of distancing rules; - Plexiglas screens, as in other economic sectors, to separate staff and passengers; - posters; - hand gel dispensers; - mobile cleaning units; - closed bins for used oral masks; - a VOCID-19 test centre on the airport site for those who wish to do so; - a pilot project for rapid antigenic testing in order to ensure a functioning equivalent to that in place at other European airports. I am the evolution of the situation closely, Mrs Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u107	Minister, I have absolutely no doubt about your work in this area and your vigilance on this issue, as I have absolutely no doubt about the work done by the airport, management and staff. What I'm more interested in is that you say that the incidents were quite exceptional. They still lasted several weekends in a row. You explain, and thank you, that the measures have been put in place (additional staff on days of great influence, etc.) on the weekend of 21 November 2020, while the most important incidents were reported around 11 November 2020, a holiday commemorating the Armistice. Minister, how do you explain this deadline for implementing these measures? Has there been any consultation with trade unions? Were there any break-up points or points that made the measures taken possible only later? That's an issue for me. Indeed, it is not acceptable for such difficulties to be encountered, even though traffic at the airport has been drastically reduced. As far as the deadline for obtaining the results of the tests is concerned, you are not really answering me, but it is true that this is a question I have added between the time of the submission of my question and today. In order to get an answer, I will repeat this test question. This is essential in particular for travellers who pay 135 euros to obtain results and to be able to travel on time to their destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u108	Minister, a while ago I was shocked to read an article I found through Gopress. According to some media, there would be an investigation into possible illegal employment and social dumping in the maintenance of SNCB locomotives. There would be poor instructions, use of foreign languages, low-cost work, possible forgery in writing and social fraud in subcontractors whose personnel are responsible for the maintenance of the locomotives. Is SNCB aware of the allegations made and can SNCB clarify them? Is it true that SNCB is the subject of an investigation carried out by the Central Executive of the fight against serious and organized crime in the context of possible fraud and forgery by its subcontractors responsible for the maintenance of the SNCB locomotives? Were external checks carried out in the workshops? If so, where and when? Did the SNCB do any checks himself? What procedures or control mechanisms exist? What possible additional actions will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u109	I'll give you an answer from SNCB. SNCB has taken note of the article in Médor. SNCB entrusted works in its workshops to SPIE and Siemens, but never to the quoted foreign companies. They're unknown to SNCB. I don't know if it's one or more companies. So far SNCB has no knowledge that it is the subject of such an investigation. In that context, SNCB and its agents were neither heard nor sought nor accused by the competent authorities. We assume that "external control" means an inspection by the competent federal administrations of Social Security, Labour and Social Consultation and Finance. These bodies may carry out planned or non-scheduled checks in SNCB's workshops. That makes sense. SNCB is not above the law. SNCB shall apply the legal provisions for public procurement, both during the award and during the execution. During the award phase, there is, of course, a reference in SNCB's specifications to public procurement legislation, including Article 7 of the 2016 Public Procurement Act, which includes an obligation to respect environmental, social and labour law. Specific provisions are being introduced for sectors sensitive to fraud, such as construction, cleaning or surveillance, in order to ensure compliance with environmental, social and working obligations. It also refers to Articles 67 to 69 of the 2016 Law, which allow, inter alia, the exclusion of candidates for fraud, trafficking in human beings, employment of illegally staying third-country nationals and social or fiscal debts. For all contracts above the European threshold, just over EUR 500 000 for deliveries and EUR 5 million for works, SNCB is working with the single European tender document, which allows the subcontractors to be identified to whom the contractor applies. This includes a statement on honour that the contractor was not convicted of trafficking in human beings, tax or social offence and that he is okay in connection with his RSZ payments. SNCB shall, if necessary, ask for additional evidence. During the execution, the contractor must submit the list of his subcontractors. SNCB carries out checks on the basis of that list, particularly in the sectors susceptible to fraud. The circular of 26 January 2018 on the fight against social dumping in the framework of public procurement and concessions in accordance with the special sectors is applied within SNCB. On that basis, SNCB has drawn up a code of conduct for suppliers, which includes provisions against social fraud and applies to all its contractors. To go even further, SNCB is now working on the development of a corporate social accountability system in its books. SNCB may carry out a specific check on the site during the execution of the contracts, in particular if there is a suspicion of social fraud. This is also happening in its workshops and also with regard to the staff of subcontractors. Such checks shall be made possible either by means of the access control on the site or by means of the list of personnel present on the site which the contractor is obliged to keep up-to-date and update on a daily basis. This list is managed electronically for some sectors and activities, including for real estate. This allows SNCB to control posted workers. As has just been explained, SNCB is currently working on the integration of a corporate social accountability system into its specifications. It concerns the integration of social, environmental and economic aspects and measures on a voluntary, systematic and coherent basis. I would like to deal with the issue of social dumping very carefully, as it is very important that public enterprises should set a good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u110	That was a comprehensive response from SNCB. It might be appropriate to point out to SNCB that you only have a limited speaking time to give answers. It was a very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u112	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 55010828C on the introduction of the driving licence with points is being converted into a written question. Then follow the merged questions about the station Gent-Sint-Pieters. The Court of Auditors has given us a report on this. There are four questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u113	Minister, on 16 November we received the report from the Court of Auditors, which we have been looking forward to for a long time. You know the file on the renovation of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station, the main passenger station in Flanders. The renovation started in 2005 and is still not ready in 2020. The second phase has yet to begin. In 2027 there would be a return. There'll be 22 years of work at the station. We will not get the station delivered as it was originally intended, because it turned out to be priceless. That's what the report's about. How did this happen? From where so much delay and so large budget overruns? I am not going to go over the report, I am not going to allow speaking time, but there are a number of observations that I cannot leave unnamed. I'll give you three. Apparently, there was a little realistic time planning at the basis of this project. At the beginning, the assessment of the project time proved to be completely incorrect or in any case unrealistic. When there appeared to be a large gap between the cost estimate and real expenditure, this was not further examined by the administration. This was reported to the minister's cabinet, but that did not lead to additional questions or a mandate for further investigation. This brings me to the following questions, Minister. What conclusions do you draw after taking note of this report? What policy initiatives could they lead to? Can you explain why it was not necessary at the time to examine why there was such a gap between the estimates and the tenders for the second stage? Do you think it is necessary for further research to be carried out? This was an important factor in the enormous delay the project has experienced. Since your reply to my oral question on the state of play of this project in the Committee on 10 November, do you have any relevant information on the progress of the second phase of the renovation? Yesterday I received an answer from ships Watteuw in Ghent, which you apparently spoke to. He has been guaranteed by both you and Mrs Dutordoir - we are very pleased about this - that the station will be completed by 2027 or that you will at least make every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u114	Minister, I will not repeat what Mr Vandenbroucke has already said. From the report of the Court of Auditors a number of remarkable things have emerged about what has gone wrong in the project around the largest station in Flanders. The report referred to the constantly shifting timing, the original budget which has been revised upwards over and over again for years, the difference between the cost estimate and the actual tenders submitted in relation to the second phase of the project and the fact that at no time - and I think this is striking - any initiative was taken to find a solution or to examine the possible problems. Yesterday, in the City Council Committee on Mobility of the city of Ghent, we questioned Walteuw, which you may know very well. He has confirmed that he has spoken with you and with Mrs Dutordoir, which is certainly positive. When Mr Vandenbroucke asked you a moment ago about the date of 2027, I saw you clearly nodding. That is a big difference from your previous attitude and answer. Minister, I have a number of specific questions on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report. Will you link actions to the Court of Auditors' report and its findings? Have you asked for explanations from SNCB yourself? We know you've already been with the competent ships of Ghent, but have you been with Mrs. Dutordoir? What initiatives will you take to put this project on the right track again? As far as timing is concerned, can you confirm on the basis of any calls you have already made that 2027 will be effective delivery date? After all, we hear that SNCB will try, but I also said yesterday in the municipal council committee that SNCB should not try now, but should, above all, do so. In the meantime, has there been an investigation into the misjudgement of budgets and cost estimates? Finally, what will you do to avoid such matters in the future? Mr Roggeman will go into this further and ask you more detailed questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u115	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the 88-page conclusions are still hallucinating. It is thus concluded that the surcharge and the delay in the first stage of the renovation, i.e. track 8 to 12, are mainly the result of a rephase of the works to ensure the safety of passengers and the punctuality of trains during the renovation. This first phase was delivered 15 months late and it was already found to have cost almost €80 million at the beginning of 2020. That is 36.2% higher - you will hear it correctly - than the amount for which the contract was awarded. With regard to the second phase, namely the renovation of railways 1 to 7, the award of the public contract has already been delayed for four years. A first contract was terminated in early 2017 due to excessive bid prices, just like a second contract at the beginning of 2020 after an adjustment of the plans. The Court of Auditors considers that SNCB should have sought a more detailed explanation of the large differences between estimates and tenders in order to demonstrate any deficiencies in the estimation and/or market distorting factors. Nor did the FPS further call for an in-depth analysis of SNCB. Your predecessor's policy cell did not go into the issues reported. A third procedure would then be published by mid 2020 on the basis of a simplified draft. SNCB, as my fellow Members have just said and we were able to hear in the press today, is moving forward at the end of 2027 as a target date for the works at the station. Mrs Dutordoir, from Ghent, will finally be able to get off at a nice station, we hope. The startup was in 2004. The Oosterweel connection will soon be completed more quickly than the renovation of the busiest station in Flanders. What lessons does SNCB draw from the project and report of the Court of Auditors? What lessons do you draw? What lessons does the FOD draw? What are the further plans for the second phase of the project? Has the third public contract already been announced? When are these results expected? What is the available budget for the 2nd phase and how does SNCB intend to ensure that the bids will now fit within the budget estimates? What is the further timing for the procurement of works and the start of works? In the meantime, we know when they're gonna end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u116	The Court of Auditors has exposed many points of concern, not only in connection with the concrete project Ghent-Sint Pieters, which our colleagues in Ghent have addressed, but also in general about the management of station renovation. The renovation of the Ghent station is not the only project with difficulties. At the moment no station project is on schedule nor has one landed within the planned budget but perhaps you can improve me. The largest project south of the language border, the station of Bergen, is also derailing at the moment, with more than 100 million euros of additional costs. If this happens structurally, there is something very wrong with the management of major station renewal projects. What lessons do you draw from the Court of Auditors' report, not specifically in relation to Ghent-Sint Pieters, although interesting, but wider than that? Do you agree with me that there is a need for a change in the management of the major station projects at NBMS? What steps do you intend to take to achieve this? Do you agree that the inclusion of Eurostation in SNCB is an opportunity to reorganise the management of station projects in general in order, for example, to give new form to the Stations Executive Board? What measures, in particular, are planned to reduce the likelihood of recurrence of such abuses? Does SNCB or yourself consider measures such as a reorganisation of the Stations Executive Board, an audit of real estate management or a revision of your decision to allow Eurogare to continue as a separate company? Are you considering strengthening the supervision possibilities of the FPS Mobility on SNCB? Are you considering new arrangements in the future management contract? What will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u117	I have prepared a long answer to the many questions. It'll be my last answer for today. You can always convert remaining oral questions into written questions. I have read the Court of Auditors' report carefully. For me, however, that is history. History is important to get smarter, but under no circumstances am I responsible for the past. That must be clear to everyone. Some colleagues seem to think that I have been Minister of Mobility for ten years, but I am only two months away. However, I will do my best. The Court of Auditors' report will help me and also the SNCB to professionalise the management of major projects. First of all, I would like to outline the context for the follow-up by the administration of SNCB and Infrabel's investment projects. The FPS Mobility closely follows all investment projects of the companies through clearly agreed processes with the companies. In this context, the FPS receives mobility files because of Infrabel and SNCB, with the evolution of the various ongoing projects. Certain investments are of a continuous nature, e.g. investments in the maintenance of the rail network. Other investments are clearly defined in time, such as the construction of a railway line or the purchase of new rolling stock. In this sense, a distinction is made between the continuous files and the identified files. In addition, the FPS makes a distinction between projects type 1 and type 2 for the identified dossiers by means of a multi-criteria analysis, taking into account the strategic importance of each investment project. The list of projects type 1 and type 2 shall be updated annually. SNCB and Infrabel send progress files each quarter for projects type 1 and each semester for projects type 2 and the continuous files. The FPS analyses the contents of the documents and, after contacting SNCB and Infrabel, prepares a report each quarter for the type 1 projects and each semester for the type 2 projects and the continuous files. These reports are delivered to the Minister of Mobility and show the evolution of the realisation, the risks for the successful completion of the projects as well as the differences in planning and budget compared to the reference descriptions. Each type 1 project is the subject of a follow-up meeting in the presence of the project manager and representatives of Infrabel and SNCB, at least once a year. A report of those meetings in the form of follow-up sheets shall be added to the aforementioned reporting. I can also tell you that the follow-up to the NMBS project Gent-Sint-Pieters is still taking place on a quarterly basis. As far as this project is concerned, we are convinced that SNCB has always behaved like a good housekeeper in the interests of the traveller. Meanwhile, with the arrival of Sophie Dutordoir and Patrice Couchard, Director of Stations, the management of the new station projects was fully examined. This is based on an important principle, namely functional stations where the customer is at the centre and where standardisation and intermodality prevail. For example, passengers can easily switch from one means of transport to another. Mr Roggeman's turn here has certainly been used by SNCB. In recent years, SNCB has taken major steps to improve the management of station projects. It is important to continue along this path and to continuously adjust and refine project management. That is one of my goals as a new Minister of Mobility. In this context, the initial preliminary draft of the Gent-Sint-Pieters project was reviewed with a look at the mobility of the future. The amended plans were presented at the beginning of this year. Gent-Sint-Pieters now gets a full roof and a substantial increase in the number of underground bicycle parking spaces, 17,000 instead of 13,500. This will give Ghent and all train passengers a functional, safe, sustainable and contemporary station in which the comfort of the traveller is paramount. The second phase of renewal should start after the summer of 2021. I can stress that SNCB has assured me that it is joining forces with the city of Ghent to complete the project in 2027. For example, I have also received the notice that the public investigation into the application for an environmental permit for the modified station design at the city of Ghent started on Friday 27 October and will last for one month. Of course, provided that the city of Ghent is committed to treating it as efficiently and as quickly as possible, with all due respect for all the rules in force. Since the last committee meeting, I have contacted the Mayor of Ghent and also the first ships and some staff. I also contacted SNCB immediately. As I have said, this is an important project and I will fully support it. I hope that things will go well now, better than in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u118	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the sake of clarity, neither I nor my colleagues consider you responsible for one gram of the debacle on the renovation of the Gent-Sint-Pieters station. We are, of course, looking in your direction when it comes to learning lessons from this dossier. You have explained in an interesting way how the follow-up of such projects happens administratively, but you were rather quick to note that despite the fact that there have been neat reports delivered by the FPS Mobility to the Minister, there were issues about budget overruns, for example about the huge gap between the estimated budget needs and the offers submitted. However, no one felt the need to investigate what is going on, either with the FPS Mobility or with the competent cabinet. As far as the latter is concerned, we cannot question you about that. That is not your political responsibility. But I do expect a very clear statement that when such reports are produced with anomalies, research will take place. I am pleased to hear that Mrs Dutordoir will make a switch and that the whole process will be examined. I hope that this will be effective, so that we in Ghent will be able to enjoy the station we have been entitled to for more than ten years by 2027 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u119	Minister, you rightly referred to the fact that much of the responsibility lies with your predecessors, but I urge you to turn the tide effectively. We're counting on it. All engineers count on this, but also the almost 60,000 commuters who use the Gent-Sint-Pieters station every day. You also explained the whole procedure about T1. I am not so concerned with the technical aspects of these projects, but I have heard in particular that a lot of chips are being sent back and forth, that there is a quarterly follow-up, and so on. However, there has never been any mention of what is in the chips about the anomalies, so I hope that will change that. I find it strange that you say that SNCB has always acted as a good family man. Well, he's a very strangely good family man, if you ask me. After all, you yourself say that the switch has been put in place, so that means that something was wrong, otherwise there should not be a switch. The bottom line now is to join forces. We, as Ghent politicians, will already do so across party boundaries, both in our position as a city council member and in our position as a Member of Parliament, because the station of Ghent-Sint-Pieters must and will be delivered in 2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u120	To be honest, Minister, I am pleased that you have already taken so many initiatives in the short time you have been Minister. I would like to invite you, undoubtedly together with my colleagues from Ghent here, to visit Ghent-Sint-Pieters, together with Sophie Dutordoir. It is the busiest station in our country, after the Brussels stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u121	I know that station, Mr. Briers. I don't get there every day, but I've been there a few times, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u122	I recently took the train in the beautiful renovated Central Station of Antwerp and I ended up in the catacombs of Ghent. If we take the minister to the catacombs, he will never forget us, I thought, and that must be the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u123	You are right, Minister, that you have no responsibility for the past, but you have responsibility for the future. My questions and proposals therefore concerned measures that you, as the current guardian minister, can take with a view to improving process management in real estate. I have made five proposals to you, but I have to say today that you are not committed to any proposed measure for the structural improvement of the management of station renewal projects. You say that the switch has already started and that all major steps towards improvement have been taken. For the sake of clarity, if you say so, Minister, I would very much like to believe you. I am also pleased to give you the benefit of the doubt in this respect, and I sincerely hope that this is indeed the case and that you are absolutely right. Practice will show whether these steps are appropriate. If new projects or new phases of existing projects continue to derail, they will of course be your policy responsibility. If necessary, we will be happy to remind you of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic309x.u124	Debates of the European Parliament 55011176C and No. Mr Nicolas Parent's 55011216C is converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55011248C, No. 55011249C and No 55011263C of myself are also converted into written questions. The rest of the agenda will be completed during a new question session.
