ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, you have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, you received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u3	Mr. Ahmed Laaouej's motion reads as follows: "Proposal to amend the draft agenda of the plenary session of 15 July 2020 in accordance with Rule 17, 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives tabled by Mr. Ahmed Laaouej. The House proposes to amend the draft agenda for the plenary sitting on 15 July to add the first item to the proposed law amending various legislative provisions with a view to making the conditions for the voluntary termination of pregnancy introduced by Eliane Tilliaux et al. more flexible. The opinion of the Council of State requested for the second time on amendments tabled in plenary session was received by the House on Friday, 3 July. The Council of State noted the technical and legal nature of most of them. As for the two amendments considered, they were considered to be within the freedom of the legislator. As a reminder, this bill, which was started in October 2019 in the Justice Committee, has already been placed twice on the agenda of a plenary session (16 March 2020 and 2 July) and has already been the subject of three opinions of the Council of State (EC opinion 66.881 of 02.03.20/EC opinion 67.122 22.06.20/EC opinion 67.732 of 10.07.20). Therefore, in accordance with Rule 17.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed to include Mrs Tillieux's proposal in item 1 on the agenda of the sitting on 15 July. Ahmed Laaouej' Mr Ahmed Laaouej's motion reads as follows: Proposal by Mr Ahmed Laaouej to amend the draft agenda of the plenary session of 15 July 2020 in accordance with Rule 17 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. The House proposes to amend the draft agenda of the plenary session on 15 July and to amend Mrs Eliane Tillieux's bill amending various legal provisions in order to ease the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy. the first item to be added to the agenda. The Council of State's opinion, which was requested for the second time for amendments tabled at the plenary session, was received by the Chamber on Friday 3 July. The Council of State has stressed the technical and legislative nature of most of these amendments. The two amendments in question are considered to be amendments which are subject to the freedom of the legislator. We recall that this bill, which was discussed in the Justice Committee in October 2019, has already been on the agenda of a plenary session twice (16 March 2020 and 2 July). and that the Council of State has already issued three opinions on it (CoS opinion 66.881 of 02.03.2020/CSR opinion 67.122 of 22.06.2020/CSR opinion 67.732 of 10.07.2020). Therefore, pursuant to Rule 17 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed that Mrs Tillieux's bill be entered as the first item on the agenda of the plenary session on 15 July. Ahmed Laaouej" Mr. Laaouej, you have tabled a motion to amend the Order of the Day which the House approved on Thursday, July 9. I give you the floor, while making it clear – as I have already reminded you this morning – that as the proposer of the motion, of course you have the right to speak and the groups – yours included – can speak for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group has sent you a motion to amend the agenda in order to re-incorporate the proposed law amending the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) in our country. First of all, I am pleased to have taken the initiative last week to table a first motion, when we did not yet have the opinion of the Council of State, but which provided that, if the Council of State gave an opinion on time, we could first obtain an inscription on the agenda of today's plenary meeting. This motion was not adopted – for lack of a majority – but nevertheless made it possible to take note of the statements made by several groups which agreed to play the game of democracy and which undertook that the item should be placed on the agenda of one of our plenary meetings if the opinion of the Council of State was to be delivered on time. Today, you will be able to put into practice your comments and commitments from last week. I am speaking in particular to the Liberal groups and do not rely too much on those who have so far done their utmost to prevent the vote and debate in plenary on this bill. We have not been able, in the Conference of Presidents, where the agenda is set, to reach a consensus on the modification of the agenda of our plenary meeting in order to include this item on the agenda of our work. Some have tried a last manoeuvre in proposing that this item be placed on the agenda of tomorrow, but it would have been naive for us to do so, considering that it would have allowed them to take further procedural action, to refer the item back to committee or to opt for other tricks to prevent us from debating and adopting before the holidays this bill, which enshrines and strengthens not only the rights but also women's freedom of choice in our country. For this reason, we are putting forward a motion to put this item on the agenda as early as Wednesday, as the first item on the agenda, so that we can discuss this vital issue calmly and democratically. Of course, I am not naive, and I once again expect procedural abuses and offensive attitudes against our democratic parliamentary life. The press talked about it. Some did not deny this when the question was explicitly put to them: today we could still be subject to amendments with requests for referral to the Council of State. So I'm going to tell you and I'm going to address you again at this stage, on the conditional. If this is indeed in your intentions, I will ask you a simple question: are you not ashamed to do so? Are you not ashamed to confiscate a democratic debate in this way? Are you not ashamed to ask the Council of State for a fourth time, which is far from parliamentary practice in our country? At some point, we vote in favour, we vote against or we abstain but we vote! This moment has come a long time ago. Don't you also be ashamed to brace the functioning of our institutions, our parliamentary institution, but also the Council of State, which is not wrong with the opinion it gave when we read, not between the lines, but when we know how to read the general economy of an opinion of the Council of State. It's time to get you back together! Perhaps I appeal to the CD&V, which even at the time of Wilfried Martens, had not used us to confiscating the parliamentary debate. My colleague Liliane Tillieux will return. As for the N-VA, I do not have much illusions: we know that it is, in this chamber, the anti-chamber of the Vlaams Belang and that, therefore, having to rely on the far right to refuse a debate which concerns the individual freedoms of our fellow citizens is deplorable and shameful from a democratic point of view. Dear Chair, ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons for this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u5	With regard to Mr Laaouej's motion, I shall give the floor in turn to the groups that are asking for it, in the order of strength. Mr De Roover, you have the floor. There is ten minutes of speaking time per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u6	Mr President, we are facing a very heavy agenda, so I will not exhaust that ten minutes. I have just heard the words of Mr Laaouej. They were particularly hopeful towards the end with a view to forming a federal government, but that is another matter. We are going to vote against the proposal to amend that bill today. The last few days and weeks have shown that we are trying to reverse the normal course of events, in particular that we shall proceed to a vote in Parliament after a full and mature social debate has taken place: we want to proceed first to a vote, after which the social debate will rise to the question of what the hell we have done. Let us be honest: until two weeks ago, the content of this very important piece of legislation, whether one is a supporter or an opponent, no one will deny it. The fascinating debates that have taken place in the committee have actually not been echoed outside this bubble. It was only after, among other things, our group and our party fed the social debate that people began to think about things outside this house, but also that they realized how much the agenda weighs. This information has also shown that it is not a debate for or against abortion, as the proponents of the proposal would like to propose the matter caricatureally. A lot of concerns have emerged from the social debate. At least as important is that a number of colleagues in the hemisphere have started to think again. I quote a number of colleagues, including those who have expressed themselves publicly. Do we know enough of all 150 Members of Parliament to support what is being proposed here? It goes without saying that a vote must be taken at some point, but this must certainly be done with food and contact with the broad social field, as well as with professionals, on such an important matter. Hendrik Cammu, a recognised supporter of the right to abortion that has been a part of the first initiatives in this area, says: "I do not know any Flemish gynecologists who are waiting for this legislative change." This has also been demonstrated in the hearings, which are very much to be referred to, although they dealt with a different proposal in the previous legislature. However, we would like to refer to that, not to actually listen to what was said at those hearings. Only the word "hearing" is put forward. Hendrik Cammu, a recognised supporter of the right to abortion, also gives us a political argument that does play a part for us. I quote: "The new bill has no majority in Flanders. It would be nice to find a majority for ethical discourse in both parts of the country. Then the rules should not point at each other later." I think that a sensitive matter such as this really requires time so that a broad debate can be held both in the public and in the Chamber. It is now too early to conclude this debate with a vote. We shall therefore vote against Mr Laaouej's proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u7	Mr President, today the Ecolo-Groen Group will support putting the item on the agenda via the motion. It's his normal way. We support this text, which has attracted a large parliamentary majority. Today is an important day. Parliament has the opportunity to adopt a progressive, modern law that responds to the experiences of as many women as possible and to the expectations of field professionals who practice IVG. Contraception, rules, endometriosis, IVG, childbirth: women assume and bear this mental, physical and financial burden for our society as a whole. One in three women in the world has been forced to abort or will be forced to abort once in their lives. Six out of ten women who used IVG were on contraceptives in the previous month. Today, we face a law that is congruent with the realities of the ground, which responds to realities. It is an opportunity to get out of an ostrich policy and to really listen to the needs of these people. This must, of course, be part of broader policies on prevention, reimbursement and broad access to contraception. We talked a lot about it yesterday and we'll talk about it later. This will be done by breaking all the taboos around these topics that primarily affect women and, ladies and gentlemen, by voting this law. Women paid a heavy price for this crisis. We've already talked about it. They sewn the masks and allowed our hospitals and caregivers to function, being exposed on the front line, keeping the children, experiencing domestic violence. They do not deserve contempt and small political games. Today, the debate is mature. Those who say otherwise should not have heard everything that has been said and debated for months here in Parliament. We had five commissions. During the previous parliamentary term, we heard 20 experts. There have been hours and hours of debate, and three opinions of the Council of State which state, still recently, that the legislator is free to decide. The various opinions have already been expressed and discussed. I think no one will change their mind by receiving an umpteenth anti-IVG email in their mailbox during the summer. In fact, today, Parliament is the right body to vote on this text. It will allow this parliamentary majority to speak and opposing opinions to be expressed. That is where the heart of democracy lies. This Parliament is legitimate, yes. And it is not for party presidents, who are mostly men, to decide what women do with their bodies. The political bargaining on this subject is a real shame! We can't agree on everything. Disagreements must be expressed, but they must speak today through a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u8	Mr President, I am no longer surprised what I am hearing. Of course, many things have already been heard since the beginning of this debate on an extremely sensitive social issue, an ethical debate that concerns everyone, men, women and families. Whatever the convictions, this debate does not leave indifferent. What I would like to say today is that if we ask to include this item at the beginning of our parliamentary sittings at the end of the session, it is precisely because the debate is ripe. It is time, here and now, to be able to discuss it calmly, like any political debate that respects itself. We need a little time for that. We're always told that we're trying to rush. No! In fact, we don't want haste. We want to hold this debate in a momentum that is not at 02:00 or 03:00 in the morning, when more than half of the members are no longer present in the room or are no longer awake behind the screen. No, we want this important theme to come from the outset. It has been three times since this subject came back to the plenary. We believe that, in comparison with matters which have just been adopted in committee, there may be some precedence. Even if it is not written as it is in the Rules of Procedure, it still seems that a text that has already been submitted to us three times would require that we now be able to position ourselves. For or against. It is the freedom of parliamentarians in their soul and conscience. But at the very least this debate must take place and we must be able to vote. I would also like to go back in time. This law on voluntary termination of pregnancy has been in existence for 30 years. It dates back to 1990. I have a team of young collaborators; some are not that old. Thirty years, it's been a while. In Belgium, abortion has been legal and practiced for 30 years. So there is some experience. People in the field have told us that we need to adapt the law because society is changing and because we have learned from practice. On this basis, it seems to me that it is the work of parliamentarians to come before you, to bring texts and to try to make improvements to the daily lives of our citizens, and in particular of citizens. Thirty years ago, the then government referred the debate to Parliament. It is true that 30 years ago, the CVP and the CSP had a different weight in our assembly than the current CD&V and CDH. They represented 30 per cent of the election results, for 12 per cent today. There was also much stronger and greater pressure from the Church at the time than now, as well as from the Royal Palace. Our society has changed! Although, at the PS, we fought at the time the ideas of Wilfried Martens, who did not correspond to our convictions, we recognize that at the time we respected the institutions. Some people would do well to draw inspiration from it. The government agreement in May 1988 called for a hand in Parliament. They had not been blackmailed, nor a government matter. So why aren't we even here? Why this blackmail, which is scandalous in relation to the situation, to the evolution of society, and in terms of respect for our institutions and the Council of State, and more generally the citizens, who are also our voters. I hear we wouldn't have had enough debate. This debate began in the previous legislature. There were auditions, as Sarah Schlitz explained. From the beginning of this Parliament in October, we resumed this debate in committee, with a first and then a second passage. We have had ample opportunity to express our views on the subject. I hear, outside Parliament, that there is no echo! I don't know if we live in the same world, but it seems to me that, in the press, almost every day, we talk about it: in the media, in the JT, during debates, even literary shows... everywhere, it's about IVG. Even in France, texts were tabled to prevent that during the period of VOCID, a more difficult health period, women would have less access to abortion. There was still this debate! This provoked reactions in Belgium from journalists who called us to find out where we were with this law. There is this debate in our country! I've been sitting here for a year now and we've been talking about it for a year. To hear that is not the case is to go too far. It is disrespectful of the people and people who work in this Parliament. In terms of debate, it seems to me that this debate should take place in committee. Since when, Mrs Van Peel, have you tabled amendments in committee? There was no debate in committee because there was no tabling of amendments. The first amendments tabled came in March, not in committee but here in plenary session! This is proof that there was some form of confiscation of the debate. And today we hear that we do not want to vote! We do not want a vote today in plenary! Democracy requires a vote!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u9	Mrs Tillieux, you may continue to fantasize about debates that have not taken place and hearings on proposals other than the proposal before you today. You write that the press in French-speaking Belgium writes every day about abortion, that the debate has been there for years. I'm not ruling that out. You have a large majority on the French-speaking side. It's different in Flanders. Fortunately, in Flanders there are also journalists who have also looked at the hearings to which you have all referred. The authors always say that there has been a debate and that they have not stopped hearings. The gynecologists who will have to perform it have asked to be heard. A letter has arrived in committee. You turned all that down. In Flanders, journalists look at this and articles have been published. However, you have not read it, because we live in another country. You don't have to convince me of that. The conclusion was simple. Firstly, these hearings were about a completely different proposal. Secondly, out of the twenty experts who have been heard, only four spoke about the deadline and they were not all in favour of an extension to 18 weeks. All these other cases, and especially the criminal provisions, have never been dealt with in those hearings. So stop telling that lie every time. Mrs Merckx, you are right: one person has started to do so. Mrs Tillieux, you say that the debate has not been conducted by me. The tens of thousands of questions that this proposal raises in all possible areas, both ethically, humanly and legally, should I indeed re-examine all of them here if the debate continues in plenary. Why? What was your way of debating this proposal in committee? Colleagues will be able to confirm that. When critical questions came, you looked a little mean, you started talking about women's rights and people who are supposedly against abortion, but you didn't give any answers. You do not have an answer. That's not a debate. You want to push through your own will at all costs, and in particular you do not want to enter into the debate because you know that you cannot win the debate on a bad proposal. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u10	That was a personal fact. Madame Tillieux is moving on now. We're still talking about the procedure. Mrs Van Peel, you spoke about the substance of the matter. If you want the Chamber to discuss the substance of the matter, the subject must be placed on the agenda. That is Mrs Tillieux's question. Let us exhaust the procedure for adding the item on the agenda as soon as possible, so that the Chamber can give its opinion on it. Then, if necessary, the substance of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u11	I know that there is a temptation to come back to other things each time and make us look like liars. This is one trick like another. In fact, Mrs Van Peel, when did you table these amendments in committee? Answer me! When did you table these amendments in committee? Mr President, the truth has its rights! When did you table these amendments in committee? You don't answer because they were never tabled in committee. The first time was in plenary. In fact, you don't want to debate. You just want to block the debate. This has been your course from the beginning. It is true that the hearings focused only on decriminalization. That was the reason for the debate at the time. That's right! However, according to ten of the experts who have been heard – this is not nothing – it is urgent to respond to the situation of women who are being sent to the Netherlands today. There is therefore a need. It is true that these women are few in number compared to the overall volume and represent only a few percent. But do we have to leave them as they are? How do you respond to these women who have exceeded the 12-week deadline? Today, you answer them by saying that nothing is being done here, that if they want to undergo an intervention, they must go elsewhere, in the Netherlands for example, and if they do not, well, it will pass what has to happen. As far as we are concerned, we want to shoulder our responsibilities. That is why we want the vote to take place. We want a clear position on this issue. Mr President, it has been three times that the Council of State has taken a position. This time, he did not stand on seven of the nine amendments that were tabled, considering that he had already delivered an opinion, that he had already voted on these matters. For the other two, he said that it belonged to the legislator's free choice. In any case, it is amendments that are really flabbust! This completely dishonors the functioning of our Parliament. This is unacceptable! I say that this is unacceptable on behalf of all women who are waiting for solutions today!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u12	My comments had nothing to do with the procedure. I agree with that, Mr President, but I am asked the specific question why I did not table amendments in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u13	It is about the fact that a procedural debate is always mixed up with a debate on the substance of the matter. Mrs. Van Peel, your name has been mentioned a second time. So you're welcome to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u14	I have a habit of doing a thorough job, especially when it comes to ethical legislation. This means that one begins to analyse the problem. We are going to see what solutions can be found. At the end of the ride one has a result. This was the other way round: people first identified what they wanted, then created the problem, and because there is no conscience about it, they are just moving forward. Why have I not tabled amendments? I have not tabled any amendments because we normally have a debate first, but there was no answer to any question, not even to the most stupid question. How many of the 500 women for which you are supposedly reforming the law have been helped to bring the deadline to 18 weeks? No one here knows. Then what will you do for the 100 to 200 other women? No one can answer that. When are we going to table an amendment? That is what one does when one has a basis, when one has heard experts, when one knows what the problem is, when one can work properly. We have never reached that stage. I'll tell you more. You are attacking us here because we are going to the Council of State, but you were planning to put ethical legislation to the vote here and you refused the opinion of the Council of State in committee. So what kind of work is people doing? You're not even sending such a law to the Council of State! We were therefore obliged to ask for the opinion the first time. And a lot of passages had to be corrected, and you're still negotiating to make things right. It is a good thing that we send the texts to the Council of State over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u15	I sent the text to the Council of State for advice. Mrs. Tillieux, aren't you finished yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u16	Mr President, from the moment when the reply is given at every moment, you will not prevent me, on my speaking time, from responding to what is said. We believe that democracy is being flouted today. You're telling me we don't have an answer to the questions you're asking. But I'm not going to give the answers you're waiting for. You wait for some answers and you will never have them because we disagree. Of course, we will not reconcile on this issue. Your blindness is only equal to your obstinacy to prevent the passing of this law and to prevent democracy from functioning!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u17	May I ask you to make a modest attempt only to express an opinion on the procedure: the proposal is on the agenda or not. The ground of the case will be ready in a moment. Can we make that effort?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u18	Mr President, allow me to point out some inconsistencies. When I was in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal yesterday, the Members who wanted to vote urgently on a sensitive ethical issue before the recess had no problem lifting a text that is urgent, namely one that should prevent terrorism from happening in the soup when it comes to the court of assistants. On matters which are not urgent, we must suddenly vote in favour of the holiday in the hemisphere, when not everyone can even be present. The fact that not all can be physically present was the argument for the PS a few weeks ago not to deal with a proposal on mobility here, because it needed a full debate, in the presence of all members of the Chamber. If there is something that needs to be fully debated in the presence of all Members of this House, then it is ethical issues and a sensitive issue such as abortion. I am told that the adjustment is urgent because, after 30 years of experience, urgent action is needed. 30 years, I want to, but it was modified in 2018. That was not 30 years ago, and there is nothing urgent about rushing a new adjustment through Parliament, not least because the debate has never been ruined. As already mentioned, there is no answer to justified criticism and questions. A colleague from Ecolo refers to the 20 experts who were heard, but of course he did not mention that only 4 out of 20 were in favour of an extension of the deadline. I always hear screens with women's rights: if we do not vote on this today, women's rights will be damaged. That makes my hair stand up, because that has nothing to do with women's rights! The child's right is completely lacking here. Mr President, I apologise for the fact that I have also touched on the content, but I had to respond to all the previous speakers. There is nothing urgent about it, the debate is anything but exhausted, there is absolutely no support for it in Flanders, so you will understand that we will certainly not be supporting it today in this plenary sitting, in this coronas setting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u19	Mr President, as you know, we are Liberals. As Liberals, we believe that all opinions have the right to vote and to express themselves. This is, and will be, the case in my political group, although of course I have been working on this bill which is on the table today. We are also Liberals, Mr President, because we respect the institutions, we respect democracy and above all we respect the institutions which are ours and which must at some point lead to proposals, when they are worked out, amended, reworked and amended again, being able to also receive the debate and the vote they deserve. That is still the case in our liberal democracy. That is why I will not speak on the substance because I know that a number of opinions are circulating, including in my political group, but we support the inclusion of this item on the agenda of this plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both in committee and in the corridors, and in plenary, we have always made it clear that for Flemish Christian Democrats, protection of women who are pregnant and the protection of unborn life is both crucial and that we would oppose the legislative initiative by all democratic means, because we consider the legislative initiative to be unbalanced and unfounded. The ink of the 2018 law is not yet dry. That law hasn't been evaluated yet. However, it has to be completely trampled. It has just been said that society has changed fundamentally. I could get into that if there hadn't been a legislative change in 2018. This fundamental change in society in one year seems unlikely. However, the law of 2018 was very important, as abortion was removed from the Criminal Code and the right to request abortion was fundamentally anchored. It was also important because we wanted abortion to be done in a qualitative and medically responsible way and, above all, because we wanted these two important things, namely the protection of pregnant women and the protection of unborn life, to be balanced. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this proposal to consider first the medical impact and the psychological consequences of extending the period from 12 to 18 weeks. Could we not first consider how we can prevent sex-based birth selection, as is the case in the United Kingdom, where there is a much longer period of time in this respect? It is incomprehensible to me as a lawyer that such a fundamental law does not provide for criminal sanctions. Anyone who wants to pass a law that you want to approve can go free. Imagine a road code without criminal sanctions. What would that do? Mr President, to whom we wish to learn lessons in democracy. I wrote down some terms. Men schuwt het taalgebruik niet: abuse, shameful, scandalous, we dishonor parliament, we prevent democracy, we do not respect institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the President this afternoon that there are precedents regarding the repetitive questions of an opinion from the Council of State. I would like to mention a precedent about ten years ago: BHV. We, French-speaking people, voted against Dutch-speaking people. French colleagues, how many times did you raise the alarm? How many times have you provoked conflicts of interest in your respective parliaments where you had a majority, up to now in the German-speaking Community, which has nothing to do with this dossier but has nothing to do with it? What is use and what is the abuse of a democratic means? Is it used when it suits you and abuse when it doesn't suit you? Ladies and gentlemen, I was a little pleased this week when I finally saw some group advocates of this bill and some felt that the proposal went far too far. This should encourage us to re-debate on the basis of the opinions that have been received, taking into account those doubts and perhaps find greater support. Legislation on family law or ethics lasts for a long time if it has a strong support base, not only if it has a French-speaking support base in this area. I once again paraphrase Jean-Luc Dehaene, who said on Community matters that a majority should not unilaterally impose its will and that a minority of negotiations should not go out of the way. A few weeks ago, I said here that this also applies to ethical issues as far as I am concerned. Christian Democrats are always willing to talk, and they must do so informally in politics. The informal in politics is as important as the formal. Then we must also have the courage to take the time to do so. I could make a perfect deal with you. Let us postpone it without democratic procedure until September. We're trying to reach a compromise. If we fail to do so, we will have to come to an end with or without compromise during September, but then you must also be prepared to talk. Then you must be prepared to take steps towards a not insignificant minority in this country and an important majority in Flanders on this sensitive issue in order to achieve crucial balances. If that is not possible, Mr President, then CD&V will oppose it by all democratic means. In that case, we will continue to do so. I am opposed to putting this item on the agenda by a parliamentary majority, which I respect but whose judgment I do not share and which I will never share, certainly not in its unchanged form. I will be transparent, ladies and gentlemen, not to engage twice in a procedural debate. We will not table any amendments. We've filed dozens. I now hear from the groups that want to approve this proposal that they believe that there is something in the CD&V amendments and that some of them could be approved. CD&V will no longer be tabling amendments, but if other groups submit and ask for an opinion from the Council of State, we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u21	Mr President, with regard to the procedure, it is very strange what is happening here. Everyone knows that it is customary for us to discuss all pending legislative proposals on Wednesday and vote on Thursday. There have been 16 legislative proposals on the agenda since yesterday. It is very strange that this bill is not on the agenda, because the Council of State bill has arrived. So it should have been on there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u22	I must correct you there, Mrs Merckx. We have presented all the proposals on which consensus was reached in the Conference of Presidents. You know whether you do not know that if there is no consensus, then what is the case with this proposal will have to be decided by the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u23	That is why we must vote on the motion again. We knew last week that there would be no consensus on this. That's why last week's vote was so important. However, we now see that 50 people can block Parliament for an unlimited period of time. Will certain laws be blocked for five years? It's time to stop vetoing. It is time for the minority to accept the majority. We will see whether there is a majority, but it is important that we speak democratically. It would have been normal to discuss the substance of the case today. I would like to correct some of the points made by some of my colleagues. It has been said that people want to talk and make a compromise proposal. CD&V has not tabled any amendments in committee. The amendments that CD&V tabled here in plenary were intended to bring the 18 weeks back to 12 weeks and to increase the mandatory reflection period from 2 days to 6 days. The amendments therefore called into question the full content of the legislative proposal. Where is the compromise that CD&V wants to propose? We have been working on this for months and during those months we have not seen any compromise proposals from CD&V. With regard to the N-VA, I remember what was said during the first debate on euthanasia in the Committee on Health. At that time, the honourable Member who has often spoken here noted for the N-VA that we could achieve a majority on certain issues and announced that the N-VA would certainly not block this. Those were the words. I remember that very well. The committee announced from the first day that an opinion would be requested from the Council of State if the bill reached a majority. So we were expecting to do so, and so we have undergone this procedure and blocking so far. Two days ago I was told that the Verhofstadttoer was going on, because ethical issues would be put on the agenda. I am not in favour of Mr Verhofstadt, you cannot blame me, but I can say two things. The fact that gay marriage and the right to euthanasia were approved in our country during that period meant progress to me. If you absolutely want to block the change of law and return to an ethically conservative society, confess colour and explain it to everyone. It was also said that the social debate was not taking place. Mr De Roover, on 13 November 2019 I was present at De Afsaat to discuss this at the time of the debates in committee. The issue was discussed in detail in the Flemish press; I was contacted by all the newspapers. Of course, this social debate can continue. We have no problem with that. Again and again we will explain why the reform is important and why we stand up for women's rights. We shall do so in a determined and calm manner. It is about respecting the choice of every woman whether or not she wants to be a mother. This is stated in the European Convention on Human Rights. When I hear the last few days say how scandalous this change of law is and how criminal these women who want to have abortion after 12 weeks are, I answer that those women deserve respect and care. And that is what we want to achieve with our legislative proposal. When the debate was held in 2018, there was hope. The family planning centres and the abortion centres and the women's movement had the hope that the 30-year-old abortion law would finally be changed. But after the hearings, when the law was finally passed, they contacted us to express their enormous disappointment, because there was actually no change in the law. The only thing that had changed was that the woman no longer had to prove a state of emergency, while the rest remained the criminal sanctions for the women and the doctors, just like the mandatory waiting period of 6 days and the limitation to the period of 12 weeks. Abortion wasn't really depenalized. All I want to say is that we will continue to fight for the right of women to have their bodies, for their right to choose whether or not to become mothers and for the right to respect and care they deserve. We will continue to fight for this, both inside and outside Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u25	(...) Let's stay serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u26	... calls that could be a compromise. The first amendment concerns impunity, on which many Members in various groups have doubts. We have said that impunity should continue to apply to the doctor, but not to the woman. Sex selection, you'll allow it from 12 weeks. We're asking you to make that a criminal offence. Did you respond to that? Have you tabled an amendment? We do. You didn't respond to that. Twelve weeks is the border, after which one has to give birth in a hospital. We have included in the text that this cannot be done in the abortion centres, which are not controlled and which are not equipped for that purpose. That was another compromise, and there was no response. Democracy also involves consultation, but we have not received any response to any possible consultation. That is what we are asking for at least. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u27	Mrs Van Hoof, I do not know how you chair the Committee on External Relations. I assume that Members who are just starting to talk should not remain at the floor. As President, I assume that you will decide who you will or will not give the floor to. It strikes me that some groups believe that they should speak twice or three times, while other groups can make their position clear in four to five minutes on whether or not the debate will be on the agenda of this plenary session. I would like to ask you to stop the detailed explanations. I lead the debates and I now give the floor to Mr Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one question for today: do we postpone the debate or do we not postpone it? Frankly, the answer to that should clearly be that we are having the debate. I am a little surprised by the attitude of some parties, because it is as if there is a vote against the consideration of a legislative proposal. That has happened once, Mrs Pas can testify to that. Our party has never voted against any consideration. We believe that the debate should always be possible in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is the area of freedom of speech. Here the pros and the contras must be shared. (...): It must be a full Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u29	This is a full Parliament with full Members. In a certain group I see that the chairman of the group is in favour of not having the debate and that at the same time a member of the group is ready to discuss everything on the substance. Interesting! Colleagues, why the fear of a debate? The debate must lead to a solution. That is the second element I would like to put forward. Few people have told me today that we are working in a particular context. Parliament is not in the dark. It works, but there are also cases that need to be resolved. We've been out of government for over a year. Today, hopefully, there will finally be some perspective, although, if I hear some of you here in the Half-Round, we can never form a government. Anyone who builds trust must also take into account sensitivities. We are prepared to enter into a reasonable discussion on this matter. Reasonable means that people listen to each other, reach hands and come to solutions. Reasonability does not mean black against white, or veto so that nothing is achieved. For the sake of clarity, for us, reasonableness does not mean that this proposal or an amended proposal goes to the paper basket. We will never accept that. Reasonability means that one listens to one another in private, with respect for everyone's sensitivities. I hear some say that they want to exhaust all democratic means. That has become the new word of order. In fact, the Rules of Procedure do not prohibit the Council of State from being asked for an infinite opinion. There are precedents. The President referred to it at the Conference of Presidents. A further request for an opinion was made in committee once again in plenary. Colleagues, let's face it. If there is another question for the Council of State, for the fourth time, I do not think it will be before. That is why we are considering amending the Rules of Procedure on that point. In 1985, three wise men, including Mr Lallemand and Mrs Herman-Michielsens, proposed that both the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Council of State should be amended to prevent abuse. Why? Because the minority must be protected, in order to counter the dictatorship of the majority. On the other hand, however, ladies and gentlemen, we would not be able to accept the fact that a minority in Parliament keeps preventing a law from being passed over and over again. We should not accept that the tyranny of the minority dominates this Parliament. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are prepared to enter into the discussion within a reasonable time, but in order to find a solution. I hope that the reasonable parties can be found here. One more thing. Mr Verherstraeten referred to BHV, an episode that we all remember, or most of you, in the hall or outside. In the end, this problem has been solved. Do you know how? Because reasonable parties have sat around the table and solved it. Well, this file also needs to be resolved in a reasonable way. We are prepared to reach out, but within a reasonable time, not after the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this dossier has come a very long way. In 2018 there were long discussions and various hearings. In 2019 this was built on and there were again long discussions. It was also voted on twice in committee and there was a broad majority twice in favour of this proposal. Then it went to the Council of State three times, which in itself is unusual. The Council of State refers again and again to politics for the substantive points. I hear here that some parties intend to go to the Council of State for a fourth time. I would warn the parties with this intention, because that seems to me to be abuse of the procedure, abuse of democracy even, of the democracy of which this House is the symbol and of which you, President, are the symbol. Colleagues, we must be careful not to explode this abuse in our faces. Finally, this proposal affects people in their lives, especially women. They are often women in very vulnerable positions. It is now in this temple of democracy our fucking duty to make a decision, to do our work, quietly and with arguments from both sides. Let us take our time for that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u31	Mr President, let me first react. I heard a number of colleagues praising the way in which the debates were held. Many parties chose to deal with it among themselves, excluding certain parties of their own motion, then refusing hearings despite our requests, hearings focusing on extending it to 18 weeks, refusing hearings despite the urgent appeals of many caregivers, despite the urgent appeals of civil society. You swept them away with a back of your hand. We could and could always have converged more and found a text that would allow for progress and bring a much wider majority together. As you know, we are in favour of complete decriminalization for women, and that is not the case today. We are also in favour of reducing the time limit for reflection, but we find that the text goes too far on the 18-week deadline for medical reasons, that the decriminalisation of doctors is too broad and that the wording on the offence of obstruction is far too vague. With regard to the inclusion in the agenda, the text was submitted by the Council of State. It may therefore be placed on the agenda of the plenary. However, let me say to you that during the last few weeks, when we were discussing this subject, I wondered whether we still had the right to think differently on this and perhaps on others, the right to be in the shade, the right to accept a series of advances, but also to question the consequences of other elements of the text. I have wondered several times about how some of you wanted to present our positions caricatureally, manipulate them, and sometimes accuse us of resorting to a dirty political game, including trying to make believe that we were making an alliance with the Vlaams Belang. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that I found it shocking and not of a nature – this is the case for this text as for others, whatever the subject – to make our debates grow, to allow serenity, and above all to provide answers to sensitive, complex issues, which are neither white nor black, but which require restraint, understanding and also balanced solutions. Mr President, we will allow this proposal to be placed on the agenda and we will see what happens in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u32	Mr President, I will try to supplement my colleagues' comments as best as possible. First of all, I regret the debate we have today on this new motion. If we had voted on the motion tabled by my Socialist colleagues last Thursday, we would not be there. I have heard some colleagues say last week that we should not be worried, that the item will be able to be placed on the agenda of the plenary on Wednesday or Thursday, and that, in doing so, the motion that was tabled was completely useless. It must be noted that they were wrong and that this motion was indeed useful. At that time, we already knew that we were going to oppose the veto of the CD&V, the N-VA and their friends from Vlaams Belang. It is clear that we will again support this motion, which we believe is fundamental to the development of democracy. I will not go back to the context of this text, which was very well recalled by my colleague, Karin Jiroflée, but I would like to add a few elements. First, twenty experts were interviewed in committee in 2018. These experts had been proposed by each of our parties, including the N-VA, CD&V and Vlaams Belang. Therefore, the experts interviewed represented pluralism in the beliefs mentioned and defended and in committee. Secondly, in 2018, we were in a legislature where, already at that time, your parties had confiscated this debate on the easing of legal conditions to abort, because you felt that this debate could not take place since it was contradictory to certain elements contained in the Michel government agreement. Already at that time, you have prevented Parliament from functioning and from taking a decision on such a fundamental issue. Third, over the past few months, we have received evaluation reports from the IVG Act that have confirmed the validity of the provisions contained in this bill. You were talking about citizen debate and society debate earlier. Know that a petition has been circulating for some time. It is supported by 4,000 health-care personnel, who practice abortion every day, but also by 7,000 citizens. Can you say the same with regard to your purely ideological point of view? It is true that we are facing a successful text. Never has any of your texts been the subject of such a long and successful parliamentary process. Today I hear Mr Verherstraeten confirming that he will be able to continue his momentum in the sense that he will use all the democratic means at his disposal to prevent this vote. I would still like to remind you, sir, that if these democratic means exist, it is certainly not to prevent democracy from living, nor to prevent Parliament from deciding on a successful issue. It is simply to verify the conformity of a text with the higher standards. Now, what did the Council of State tell us, which you are probably going to ask for earlier? What did he tell us, not on one, not on two, but on three occasions? That this text was in line with these higher standards, but that, in addition to that, it was time for Parliament to decide on this issue. To take the example only of the last opinion, which arrived at us in time, the third opinion of the Council of State therefore, not only does the text of the opinion make us aware of a certain exasperation in relation to your delaying manoeuvres, but in addition to that, it is very clear on the last nine amendments that you have sent to it. The Council of State refused to rule on the first seven of them, saying that it had already done so. As regards the other two, mentioned by Mrs Van Hoof, which were intended to provide for criminal sanctions - necessary for people to be aware of what they are doing! - in the event that persons resort to abortion on the basis of the sex of the unborn child, the Council of State considers that this is a choice which belongs only to the margin of discretion of Parliament. Mr De Roover, you're talking about a social debate. Please be aware that by refusing to put this proposal on the agenda, not only do you deprive us of a vote, but you also deprive us and above all the citizens of this debate to which they are entitled, whether they are in favour of this bill or not. For weeks, Mr President, I've been watching our colleagues go on social media, on Twitter, posting sponsored videos on Facebook... to present their arguments. But as soon as it comes to presenting them in this House, everyone is defying themselves - in any case, the parties that oppose the vote on this bill today. Colleagues, if you are really convinced of your arguments, and if you want to convince us and convince the citizens, let us debate it here and now! It is you, Mr. De Roover, who reject this societal debate that you claim to cherish so much. It is you, Mrs Van Hoof, who are preventing us from debating and voting on your amendments. I would like to thank the colleagues in the CDH for having the decency to recognize that at some point we must be able to vote on this text and therefore to debate it. Why don't you, Mrs. Van Hoof, have this decency? By what right do your party and the other two carry out this genuine democratic holding-up? What right do you decide about what constitutes a breaking point in the formation of a government, which our fellow citizens need more than ever? What right do you have in deciding whether or not to have a child?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u33	Mrs Rohonyi, for what reason, if you have the opportunity to speak with the other member of your group, would you so much want to create the debate now by quoting twice the names of Mr Roover and Mrs Van Hoof? I am now obliged to give them the floor. As a result, you always reject the time when the House can decide on Mr. Laaouej's request. This may be your goal, but it is not logical in a parliamentary debate. Mrs Van Hoof now has the floor, since you have quoted her. You can speak later, but if you continue to quote the names of the other speakers, we will never end it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u34	You referred to the criminalisation of sex selection and that the Council of State said it belongs to Parliament's discretion. There must indeed be a possibility of compromise. That is a compromise that we wanted to make. You seem to think it is normal for this legislation to allow sex selection. Well, we think that's abnormal. We really do not want to allow that through this legislation. We find that rather barbaric, to be honest. Indeed, the Council of State referred to the 2004 judgments against France and 2011 against Poland. But there is another judgment, which you should also read, that of December 2010 against Ireland. It clearly states that the right to abortion must be weighed against the right of unborn life in order to protect it. I would ask the Council of State to look into this and see whether we should not limit impunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u35	I repeat, it would be a good thing for Parliament not to spend an hour and a half on deciding whether or not to add an item to the agenda. That too is something that I find difficult to explain to the outside world. If the people of the press who follow this report have to report on the 4 p.m. news, they can say that Parliament has been working for two hours but has still not decided whether this item will be on the agenda or not. If you like this type of procedural debate, that is your right, but I spoke as President last week in terms of delaying manoeuvres at the Council of State. Then I'll play my part, too. But I cannot resist the temptation to say that it is taking too long, in view of the rest of our agenda, to simply decide whether or not to vote in favour of Mr Laaouej's motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u36	Mr President, thank you. I believe, however, that the roles should not be reversed. If we have this debate today - each party was given a ten-minute speaking time - it is because some parties did not vote on the motion tabled last Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u37	Mrs Rohonyi, the Council of State had not yet delivered its opinion!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u38	Because some parties have vetoed in the Conference of Presidents to prevent this text from being put on the agenda. And so, yes! When there are false things that are...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u39	Ma'am, allow me to interrupt! Last week, on the night of Thursday to Friday, you did not know whether the opinion of the Council of State was going to be handed over or not. It has come to us last Friday and we are debating this issue today. We can, for the record, put in all the points we want. For my part, I voted against, because at that time we did not yet have the opinion of the Council of State. Please, now you can continue. I have a busy agenda and I'd like to move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u40	We too, Mr. President! But you know that the motion that was submitted to us last Thursday was conditional on the possibility of obtaining this opinion from the Council of State. This motion was very clear! For the rest, I will not go back to the Community's arguments in this debate, hoping that we will come back to it in the substantive debate. I therefore carefully keep my arguments for that moment. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to appeal to your party presidents (I will not appoint them to avoid any problems) to tell them that we are not in a party here, in which they could decide to block a law, because they find it scandalous personally or because they consider that "a man must be able to decide what his wife or daughter wants to do with his uterus" (to use their precise terms). No! We will have to tell them that we are already in the 21st century, but also that we are in a democracy, in which Parliament must be able to respond to the plight of the women who look at us and who find your hostage in Parliament just lamentable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u41	Everyone's been able to give their opinion. We shall vote on the motion in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that I have now received a second motion. The motion reads as follows: "The Chamber decided to add the discussion of the next legislative proposal to the plenary session of 15 July 2020: legislative proposal introducing a company reconstruction reserve (DOC 55 1412). The report was distributed on 10 July 2020. The vote will be held on 16 July 2020. Christian Leysen" The motion reads as follows: "The House decided to add to the agenda of the plenary session of 15 July 2020 the following bill: Bill to introduce a corporate replenishment reserve (DOC 55 1412). The report was distributed on 10 July 2020. The vote will take place on 16 July 2020. Christian Leysen' It's about the oblivion of the Open Vld Group. It's about the bill No. 1412 on the introduction of a company reconstruction reserve. The proposal was put to the vote in committee and it is requested that this item be added to today's agenda. Mr Leysen, I give you the floor to motivate your motion. We will then be able to vote on it. After Mr Leysen and others have spoken on this matter, I will suspend the sitting so that everyone can be informed in good time that those votes will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u42	Mr President, this draft law, which was given urgency, has not been put on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents. This proposal was originally a draft law, which was converted into a legislative proposal at the request of certain parties. The proposal was adopted in committee on 7 July. The report was distributed on 10 July. The legislative proposal is the final part of the financial measures to deal with the COVID-19 crisis and as such is part of the package No. 3 that the government has discussed. That is why I am putting this question to you. After all, it is also an important signal that it will completely close this hatch before the Chamber goes on recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u43	Does anyone ask to speak? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u44	Then I shall also put that motion to the vote. For the sake of clarity, we will now suspend for about 15 minutes, so that all colleagues who have to take part in the votes can be informed effectively. On the resumption of the sitting, we shall vote on Mr Laaouej's motion for a resolution on the interruption of pregnancy and Mr Leysen's motion on the reconstruction reserve. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u45	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have two votes on names on two points for which the addition to the agenda has been requested. First, we are voting on Mr Laaouej's motion, which seeks to amend the legislative proposal No. 158 amending various legal provisions in order to facilitate the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy, to be added to the agenda. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 86 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The motion was adopted. The motion has been passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u46	Consequently, the item will be added to our agenda. In accordance with our usual guidelines, it will also be placed as the first item on the plenary agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u47	Mr President, two members of my group, Kurt Ravyts and Dries Van Langenhove, have technical problems. They were logged in, but they couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u48	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Christian Leysen's motion, which aims at the legislative proposal No. 1412 on the introduction of a company reconstruction reserve. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[85]] Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The motion was adopted. The motion has been passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u50	The proposal will therefore be added to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u51	I have received an amendment to the bill (Ms. Tania De Jonge) amending various provisions introducing electronic consumption cheques, Nos. 1434/1 and 2. I have received an amendment to the bill (Mrs Tania De Jonge) amending various provisions for the introduction of electronic consumer cheques, Nos 1434/1 and 2. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, I propose that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2020, I propose that the amendment be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendment in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u52	The vote we just had was a little late. It was a question of whether there would be a debate. I think that was largely fed. The question was whether it was being fed again. The seriousness of the situation of what is lying down requires us to put down three amendments, because of what we have seen in recent days as a moving vision, including with us. If there are any other amendments, we will find out. We would like to submit our amendments to the Council of State in order to give an opinion on them. It was said earlier that attempts were being made to block up. We're not blocking anything. Either way, the debate will take place. Mr Van Quickenborne spoke of St. Juttemis. I've spent my whole life wondering when it's gonna be crazy. In the autumn we will know that, namely in September or October. It is true that we will have this debate and that we will not stop the democratic parliamentary process. We are bringing an element into that process. That process will know its course. The commitment of all those who call themselves a little democrat is that the debate will come. When we voted against earlier, that was partly because of the political context, that there is not even a government. We have seen the result, and I accept that. However, we believe that the three amendments that we have tabled, one of which builds on a previous opinion from the Council of State, can be particularly useful in the proper assessment of the proposal that lies before us. I therefore call for the three amendments to be referred to the Council of State for a full opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u53	I have several speakers who ask to speak after Mr De Roover's announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u55	Do you have any amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u56	It seems logical to me to explain it first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u57	I thought it would be limited to Mr De Roover's amendments. Mrs Dillen, you have the floor to announce your amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has also tabled a number of amendments to this bill. I don't know if it's supposed to explain them all here. They all contain a very detailed account. These are amendments which, as Mr De Roover has just said, build on progress in understanding on the one hand and on comments from the Council of State on the other. Before the left and progressive half of this hemisphere, just as last time it launches all kinds of false claims, I can reassure you, ladies and gentlemen. It concerns amendments with new aspects on which the Council of State has not yet given its light. They concern a number of issues, such as freedom of expression and the fact that it is useful, as far as punishment is concerned, to hear the position of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u59	There are therefore amendments from the N-VA Group. Amendments of Flemish Interest have been announced. I haven't received them yet, but as soon as I get them, I can have them copied and distributed. Mr Calvo, Mr Laaouej, Mr Hedebouw and Mrs Rohonyi asked to speak on the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u60	What is happening here is not entirely a surprise, but that does not lessen my indignation. Just now, during the first round, a number of colleagues said that Parliament was not ready and would not be able to hold the debate. Just now, a few minutes ago, a large majority of people's representatives decided by a democratic vote that Parliament is ready to hold that debate. The same alliance of Flemish Interest, N-VA and CD&V nevertheless again stands up to prevent the debate. Mr Verherstraeten wants to use all democratic means to oppose this. With all due respect to his personal beliefs, this has nothing to do with democracy anymore. This means preventing a democratic debate. With this you deny people's representatives to follow their personal beliefs. I respect everyone's personal belief in this. When I followed the debate earlier, I had the impression that some of my colleagues respect mine much less than I respect theirs. However, we cannot vote on this again today. I think that is radically antidemocratic. I think that's a low point for our house. We're talking about a link to the formation. That link shouldn't be there. The revision of the abortion law must be just a matter for people's representatives. There is already too much participation in Belgium. Fortunately, there is one exception. These are issues of life or death, deeply human issues such as ethical issues, such as euthanasia and abortion. In the past, the representatives of the people have always had the freedom to express their views. Party presidents who have not managed to form a government in recent months, who have been mainly concerned with Instagram and Facebook, and turn people against each other, now want to fight parliamentary democracy. The right of people's representatives, supporters and opponents to express their views on this issue is denied to them today. I find that incomprehensible. The link with the formation is certainly not relevant when one sees with what assertiveness, what eagerness and what lack of respect the debate is taking place here. The N-VA colleagues say that the political situation is not ready. At the same time, however, they are trying to turn it into a Community debate. At the same time, they try to turn Dutch speakers and French speakers against each other in the debate. They say there is no majority in Flanders. This is not a Community debate. French-speaking colleagues will vote in favour, Dutch-speaking colleagues will vote in favour. French-speaking colleagues will vote against and Dutch-speaking colleagues will vote against. This is not a Community debate. So you, on the one hand, appeal to political instability and, on the other hand, pour even more oil on the fire, is totally unbelievable. De facto, that is the elimination of democracy. There are different beliefs in my group, and I am proud of that. We have had a serene discussion about this, as it should actually take place in the plenum. But the debate cannot take place. I very much blame my colleagues for that. I have no problem with people with different beliefs. But I have a very big problem with colleagues who deny other colleagues the right to follow their beliefs. That's unseen. This opens Pandora's box and I very much regret it. That's not good news for our house and certainly not for the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u61	For a good understanding, I would like to clarify that I am giving the floor to all those who wish to speak in the procedure. I will certainly suspend the sitting again because I want to look at the amendments and make sure of what they are about. Only then will I put the question to the vote. In that case, a quorum of 50 members is required. You are all making a statement here as if it has already passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u62	Mr. President, that's all the trouble. Indeed, we have not taken note of these amendments. We would therefore like their authors to present them and to be able to read them in advance. That's the least I can do. The parliamentary institution has been ill-treated enough to have to suffer in addition the impossibility of deciding on texts that have not been transmitted to us. I therefore hope that the authors can explain to us the content of their amendments. It's a first thing. Secondly, since the procedure offers grounds for reaction and reflection, to those who considered that our accusations of obstruction of democratic parliamentary life were exaggerated, I would like to say that parliamentary democracy is not the art of consensus, but rather that of dissension. It is not intended to reach agreements which are based on unanimity at all times. That's the opposite! It embodies our ability, after meeting the conditions for democratic debate in committee - and there has been one! - to be able, when the time comes, to vote and to vote. You are not accused of voting against - it is your freedom as parliamentarians - but of preventing us from voting in favour of strengthened individual freedoms. That's what you're accused of. I repeat: yes, you do an undemocratic act! As for communitisation, it is as if tomorrow the European Convention on Human Rights should be agreed differently depending on whether one is Danish, Spanish or Croatian. That doesn't make any sense! When we talk about fundamental principles and individual freedoms, their universal vocation is inevitable. That's what you don't want to see. Your understanding of democracy, individual freedoms and human rights is particularly dangerous and disturbing. Indeed, it would mean that, depending on whether one lives in one or the other Region, the relationship with these fundamental rights and individual freedoms may vary. This is the exact opposite of the view that many of us have of democracy, which is not simply the expression of a vote or universal suffrage, but which is based on and based on fundamental rights and individual freedoms with universal scope. That, Mr President, is what I wanted to add. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been sitting here for five years and I am obviously outraged at the way in which the rules of the debate are being manipulated so that the debate does not take place. Frankly, with current case law, no more decisions can be taken by this Parliament. Four attempts! Why not a fifth or a sixth time? There's no end to it. That's what the colleagues here admit. I see Mrs. Van Peel nodding yes. A vote can thus be postponed over and over again. That's a problem. I am the first to want to have the debate here, but there are no more rules. There can never be a vote when 50 Members of Parliament ask for an opinion from the Council of State. That is a democratic problem that can be imposed by 50 Members of Parliament. We just saw the mood. It is said to 85 Members that they cannot vote on a proposal for which there is a majority. That has never happened in the five or six last years, not even on themes that were very polarizing. I am thinking, for example, of the index jump and the retirement age up to 67 years. The latter wasn't even on your program yet. The legitimacy of your position on the 67-year retirement age was zero, even less than zero. It wasn't even in your political program. We could have found 50 MEPs without any problem at the time. It makes sense to think about the future. Every time 50 Members feel that the rights of some of the people are being violated, something can be blocked. That is what is made possible here by the decision of three parties today. I come to the arguments that are being put forward. At the N-VA it was said that the debate had already started in November, but that was not yet a debate in Flanders. Have you read the reports in the Flemish press? Have you not seen the debates in the Flemish press, in De Standaard, in De Morgen, at De Afpartement? Where were you? Wake up? Watching TV, negotiating? This debate has been going on for a few months. The argument that this debate is only now being held thanks to the N-VA makes no sense. What world are you living in? That is a very peculiar argument, I think. The right of women to dispose of their bodies is being used here as an argument of low politics pending the forthcoming negotiations. This attitude is disgusting and consists of negotiating through party presidents - mostly men - in order to weaken the existing proposal and drown it in a parliamentary "package". These are deplorable behaviours. The debate in Parliament has been under way for six months, and all the conditions are in place for the vote to take place. The problem is not to vote in favour or against, but to ban voting. I therefore want to ask all colleagues, including those from the CD&V and the N-VA, not to vote for referral to the Council of State, but rather to ensure that the vote can take place! Why can't we vote? Give us the right to vote, that's what it's about. Can we vote on something in this country after six months of debate? Can we still vote here? Three parties reply no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, that's undemocratic. I ask for the right to vote today. Give us that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u64	Mr President, with this new dilatory manoeuvre, I cannot be accused of postponing or delaying things. Just a few clarifications: I would also like, and I think that is the least that can be done, that we can have these amendments in order to be able to vote on them. You say that they would be useful, that they would bring added value to the debate. Can you tell us how these new amendments sent to the Council of State would help us? You also say that once we obtain this fourth opinion from the Council of State, this debate can finally take place in September or October. Already, what contempt, what disrespect for those women who are waiting for this text, who need this text! But in addition to that, what guarantees do you give today that this vote will finally be able to take place in September or October and that you will not resort to this delaying manoeuvre again? If there is no guarantee, know that Parliament will take the lead - in any case, as far as my group is concerned. We have drafted a proposal to amend the House's Rules of Procedure to prevent a blocking minority from preventing a majority from speaking on a text when that text is precisely supported by a majority. This fourth opinion of the Council of State is still a first in Belgian political history. You know that it will serve absolutely no purpose, except to create a very dangerous precedent allowing ad vitam to a minority to block a legislative advance supported by a majority. That is why, because it is time to put an end to this profoundly anti-democratic manoeuvre, we are going to table a text to that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u65	Mr President, I did not intend to take the floor, but because I was mentioned and was finger-pointed by another colleague, I do. Ladies and gentlemen, I object to denying you the right to hold the debate. I have had this debate in greater detail and together with Mr Van Hoof, among others, in committee. We shall do so in due course here in plenary. Yes, that also has to do with the formation or, so far, the non-formation. Yes, that also has to do with the fundamental lack of trust between the parties. That is my evaluation of the parliamentary year. That is why we have not yet succeeded in forming a majority. Yes, that also has to do with seeking the broadest possible support when it comes to sensitive issues. I am accused of following a bizarre concept of democracy. Democracy is indeed not unanimity. That is not consensus. It is only the act of dissension! Christian Democrats differ from others in this respect. I want to come to a consensus from a dissensus. That is also the reason for my intervention earlier, and in fact that was already an answer to your question as to whether there should be a vote. Of course, we can vote, but I believe that in sensitive issues such as this, more efforts should be made by all democratic parties in order to gain greater support. I want that in August, I want to try that in the first days of September. I hope that other groups too will accept the hand I am reaching and, with or without formation in September, with or without consensus in September. I hope that this can be done by consensus and with broader support. If that is not the case, I will regret it and I will try to reject it until the last of my fibers, but I will democratically accept a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u66	I suggest that we do not have the debate on amendments. There was a proposal for reference to the Council of State. First of all, I want to ensure that these amendments can be effectively distributed to all Members. I will interrupt the sitting again by half an hour in order to allow myself to take note of these amendments with the services. Then I shall inform you of my findings on this matter. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u67	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed. I would like to inform the House that I have looked at precedents with the services with regard to referrals to the Council of State. I have only one observation, which I have already made at the Conference of Presidents this morning. One of my predecessors once refused to allow an identical text from the committee in plenary to be the subject of a request for an opinion from the Council of State. It was a copy-pasted text. For the rest, it is quite impossible for the President-in-Office to examine what I would call a brief or marginal review, which is new and what is not new. There are a few amendments that I first think are variations to penalties. In previous opinions on this text, the Council of State stressed the political discretion of the Chamber. So it's up to the Chamber to subpoena and not to the Council of State itself. A number of other amendments could be said to have been drawn up in the light of the opinions of the Council of State in order to bring the text into line with previous opinions. A number of other amendments are quite new, in the sense that they have not been discussed before. I shall first ask the Chamber to give its opinion, with the necessary 50 Members, on the request for an opinion from the Council of State. That quorum, Mrs Rohonyi, has referred to it. In my view, it's debatable. Last time I said, and I repeat today, that this type of renewed referral never occurred before in the history of the parliamentary institution. I also said last time that after consultation and consultation there will be a moment when a Chamber must be able to give its opinion. It is good that minorities are protected, but in my view it is abnormal that minorities can prevent a majority from voting, but that is not in the text of the Rules of Procedure today. That is not what the legislation on the Council of State says today. In order to make a difference, according to my political will, this requires an exercise in the Rules of Procedure and in the Council of State's legislation, which does not provide for interpretation. I regret that. I say hic and nunc that, in a few months' time, we will see with another legislation whether a minority has the right, with a quorum of 50 members, to prevent a majority from voting a text. That's how it is! Before this exercise, we must conclude this debate. I am of the opinion that 50 members are in favour of the request for an opinion to the Council of State. The Rules of the House and the law oblige me to do so. I have doubts about this opportunity, but I cannot prevent anything if a quorum of 50 members so requests, since new amendments have been tabled. However, it might be considered that some amendments are subject to discussion as to their novelty, but it is not for the Speaker of the House to judge this, even if, for some texts, I had the impression that we were playing on words. For example, when it comes to criminalisation, you will see that a number of cases are repeated. Amendment No. 58, which I quote in all objectivity, but also two amendments tabled by Mrs Van Peel, are new. Amendment No. 68 has not been mentioned before in the committee. I checked with the services. Before proceeding, I must first know if there are 50 members who are asking for the opinion. Those who support a request for an opinion from the Council of State vote "yes", the others do not vote. It is also not possible to abstain. If you want to abstain, don't vote. We are now voting on the request for an opinion, as formulated by Mr De Roover and Mrs Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u68	You have seen that the required quorum has been reached. I am not going to repeat what I have already said. I regret this course of action, but I can only apply the legislation and regulations that are now in place. In the interests of our institution, we need to adapt it, not only for this but also for everything else, because this is going to blow us apart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u69	Mr President, for this vote, Mrs Dedonder, who divides herself between several committees, was wrong in voting in favour. Like her group, she obviously did not participate in the vote. I point out this because some spirits are sometimes teasing and malicious and make screenshots. Before the debate continued, I had asked for the amendments to be presented by the authors, in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. But obviously, that was not considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u70	There are amendments, but their authors are not obliged, by any text of the Rules of Procedure, to defend them. You can ask, but the fact that they don't do it is a clear act in itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u71	Mr. President, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u72	I cannot oblige them to do so because they can reply that they are waiting for the opinion of the Council of State and that they will do what is necessary for the debate when the text comes back from the Council of State, in committee or in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u73	I'll join you, Mr. President. It is true that I have Rule 90 in front of me. There is no obligation, but can we not at least hear the amendments that are considered new? It's a request. They can refuse it, but I keep it. You are right about reading the Rules of Procedure, but I ask whether they can explain the amendments they are tabling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u74	Colleagues, you've heard. The vote took place. Are there any authors of proposed amendments who currently feel the need to defend them? They can now ask for the floor. However, the Rules of Procedure cannot oblige them to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u75	Mr President, very briefly. The fact that the authors of the amendments fail to explain them says a few words about the true motives of their démarche. I will not insist on an explanation. I think this episode has lasted long enough. This is painful for the whole thing. I share the malaise you have also expressed. Following the demarche by my fellow Members, it is inevitable that we should discuss this in the Rules of Procedure Committee and in the Conference of Presidents, because this is unacceptable and cannot continue. I look forward to having this conversation, because what the colleagues have done now is a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u76	Colleague Calvo, Mrs Rohonyi has already stressed that she had drawn up a proposal. Yesterday, I asked the clerk and other experts to work on a text. I was told that this was not just the regulation, but that the text of the law should also be reviewed. If we really want to limit this, then we need to amend that text. If we do not do so, then in a number of weeks or months we will be constantly confronted with Parliament's inability to give its opinion on a text. In 1985, a bill tabled by Mr Gijs of the CVP, Mrs Herman-Michielsens of the PVV and Mr Lallemand of the PS envisaged the same aim, but it was not pursued. This must be adapted in the interest of our parliamentary institution. I'm very clear on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u77	Mr President, for our reflections – which could be implemented immediately – we took the time to read these amendments. In our view, none is admissible. Those who might be thought to be admissible because they would bring a new element, the Council of State has already pronounced itself on it. For the rest, these are amendments that are not relevant to the proposed legislation. In this procedure, we do not even have the opportunity to say how these amendments constitute obstruction. There is not only reference to the Council of State, but their content itself is an obstruction. Even that, we do not have the opportunity to say it. That is absolutely regrettable. From the point of view of our institution, this is an element of fragility which, if not resolved, will make our democracy friable with regard to individual freedoms and fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u78	I refer to the last opinion issued; for some it may be holiday reading, I invite you to read it very thoroughly. The Council of State essentially says two things, which are in fact a blow to Parliament. There are amendments which seek nothing more or less than the adaptation of the text to the opinion of the Council of State. So we must not refer him to the Council of State. If we follow the opinion of the Council of State, we do it as a Parliament. Or it is a political manoeuvre and it is up to Parliament to judge it and not to an advisory body. Rebus sic stantibus, in the current state of affairs I cannot prevent that. As I said last week, we'll see what advice comes. There are a few amendments that seem new to me, in the sense that they have not yet been the subject of an opinion request. If a quorum is reached for this, I am bound, even if I am sorry to say so, to my hands and feet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u79	Mr President, I am very sorry, but I would ask for another opinion from the Council of State, namely on the proposal to amend the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to the compulsory registration of foreign notarial acts (No. 1357)............................................................................................................................................................. The first amendment we have tabled qualifies the legislative proposal as an Article 74 of the Constitution. This has not received the necessary support, but we have retabled it because we believe that it should be dealt with by a special majority, which is crucial. A statement by the Council of State can make a world of difference. Apparently not all colleagues are convinced of this, but we are very convinced, and it is perhaps not bad that a neutral third party, in this case the Council of State, should give an opinion on this. The second amendment on Article 6, which regulates the entry into force, clarifies that the law is applicable in the past from the entry into force of this law and not from the instrument that became past before that date, but whose registration period has not yet expired. That amendment is not important either, but I would like to highlight the importance of the first amendment because it concerns whether this legislative proposal should be dealt with by a special majority or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, it is on item 8 on the agenda, Bill No. 1357 by Steven Matheï and his associates, amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to the compulsory registration of foreign notarial documents; commonly known as the "cheese route'. Mr De Roover therefore asked for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u81	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain our vote here. In the meantime, two readings of this proposal have taken place. The Flemish interest made it very clear at first reading that it was in favour of a shortened opinion from the Council of State. Such a shortened opinion could have explained what Mr De Roover said, namely whether a normal majority or an enlarged majority was possible. At the second reading we also made that offer and asked Flemish Belang to clear this up. With the best will in the world, the cheese route exists, but sooner or later it must be closed. When the Council of State is asked for an extensive opinion, this is taken on the recess. We have always had the agreement in committee to ensure that we can close the cheese route before the recess. Almost all Members were in favour of this, but just now, when the recess comes, an extensive opinion is still being requested in plenary. We are clear in this: up to twice we agreed to a shortened opinion, but this time we will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u82	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. We come to exactly 50 Members who support the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u83	Mr President, I must also announce a request to refer certain amendments to the Council of State. No one will have escaped that, despite the desire of many of us, item 1412 was added to the agenda following the tabling of a motion by Mr Leysen. I have tabled three amendments through the secretariat. The aim is first of all to try to tighten the measure to SMEs. An amendment simply seeks to limit the scope for tax optimisation. This will, in particular, allow this to be compensated for with deductible losses, so-called abnormal or voluntary benefits received. Finally, an amendment aims to ensure that the condition of inviolability is met, with a reinforcement of the criteria. I therefore request that these amendments which we have tabled be referred back to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u84	Is Mr Laaouej's request clear to everyone? We added a bill to the Orders of the Day, following a motion introduced by Mr.Leysen. Mr Laaouej presented amendments to the text, for which he requested consultation with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u85	Mr President, I call for the suspension of the sitting and the convening of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u86	Basically, I always go into that. We suspend the sitting and I call the Conference of Presidents together in the Europe room. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u87	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Mr Laaouej asked for the opinion of the Council of State on a bill No. 1412. It concerns the introduction of a reconstruction reserve for companies. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. I note that 61 Members support the request for an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u88	Mr President, I understand that there would be a substantive justification?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u89	He gave it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u90	It would have been interesting to explain them to me. I understand this isn't on the count.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u91	He did. I have suspended the sitting at the time when the vote would begin. In that case, in the absence of a consensus in the Conference of Presidents, I am obliged to repeat where the debate has ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u92	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: 175: Stefaan Van Hecke, Zakia Khattabi, Khalil Aouasti. - 463: Khalil Aouasti, Özlem Özen, Laurence Zanchetta.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Özlem Özen, Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mrs Bercy Slegers, rapporteurs, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of lawyers in Parliament, and in particular in the Committee on Justice. I think they all still have memories of cases that they have argued as an intern pro bono. Some pro-Deo cases are never forgotten. For many, the first pro-Deo case ever received will also remain engraved in memory. This is often the first case to be put on the desk as a starting lawyer, and that is not easy to forget. The same goes for me, because 25 years ago, in October 1995, I advocated my first pro-Deo case for a certain Maria. She was retired, widow, 80 years old. She wasn't lucky enough to own a property, she had to rent a house. She lived on about 20,000 Belgian francs per month; it was still the time of the franc. With her low pension, she barely made it through. The classic problem occurred: problems with the payment of the rent, problems with the landlord, the heating did not work properly or leaked, there were moisture spots in the house. The owner refused to do anything about it. The lady was entitled to a pro-deo attorney, because her pension was way too low. That right to a public defender didn't have that lady for committing a crime. A lot of people think that pro-Deo lawyers are used to defend criminals. However, many pro-Deo cases deal with the daily misery of people in civil law, in family matters and in rental cases. These small problems are often very serious problems for those involved. We're 25 years later now. The house I was talking about is still there. The resident's gone. That case is engraved in my memory and demonstrates the importance of a pro-Deo system and second-line assistance in our country. I'm certainly not alone with my testimony. Following the vote in committee, my group colleague Tinne Van der Straeten also gave a very nice account of her experiences in assisting people who needed a pro-Deo lawyer. She wrote something about this on her Facebook page. Colleague Van der Straeten describes the case of a young woman who rented a social home whose roof is leaking. That woman had written to the social rental office several times, with no result. It kept raining in. She worked and had taken a special day's vacation to come to the Legal Assistance Office for a pro-Deo attorney. One of her family had come to help her, and she had everything: all the letters and all her pay sheets. Her salary was barely 10 euros above the border to be entitled to a pro-Deo attorney. Whoever presided over the meeting said she didn't meet the income condition. Mr Van der Straeten continues: "We sat there with a dozen lawyers, it became quiet and in that silence our hearts broke together. One of us said he'd help, pro bono." Yeah, lawyers sometimes take cases pro bono because a client doesn't qualify for pro bono. They do that for free and for nothing. They shouldn't, but they do. There are people in Belgium who need legal aid but earn too much to be entitled to a pro-Deo lawyer and too little to be able to consult a lawyer themselves. That is why we are standing here today: the income limits have long ceased to be sufficient. We are not just saying that, as is evident from judgments of the Constitutional Court and from opinions given by the Council of State to Parliament on various legislative proposals and drafts submitted over the years, in fact to raise the threshold to justice. There is a common thread in the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the opinions of the Council of State: access to justice is at risk in our country. However, access to justice is a fundamental right guaranteed by our Constitution. This right has been compromised because many changes have been made in recent years, leading to a higher cost of access to justice. The justice fee has increased, a VAT of 21% has been introduced on the fees of honour, contributions have to be paid, for example to the Pro-Deo Fund, and role and registration fees have also been increased. However, income limits have remained stable and so assistance has remained far too low. Today, ladies and gentlemen, as a single person, we cannot earn more than EUR 1,026 per month in order to be entitled to the full free of charge. Today, family income should not exceed EUR 1,317 to be able to rely on a pro-Deo lawyer, which can be increased with dependent children. Those are very low amounts. Ladies and gentlemen, these amounts are below the poverty line and well below the poverty line! An increase is therefore absolutely necessary, hence the present legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the way in which the text has been drawn up. It was one of the most thorough debates of the last year. We have discussed this in detail on several occasions. Hearings were held. There were even two opinions from the Court of Auditors on this text, the first two years ago, but there was also a recent opinion. Colleagues, I would like to challenge you to find a bill or bill that was twice calculated by the Court of Auditors. There was an opinion from the Finance Committee. There was a second reading. There was an opinion from the Legal Service of the Chamber. All comments of the Legal Service were also accepted by the Committee at second reading. Colleagues, it was important for CD&V to be able to make an increase from September. Mr Servais Verherstraeten has repeatedly committed himself to making this possible in the Committee on Justice. However, he asked for a phasing-in, because the proposals before us would immediately be a major step in raising income limits. We found each other in there. We have tried, together with the colleagues from PS............................................................................................................................................................................................ We have established a phaser whereby all the income limits that exist today from 1 September 2020, within two months, can be increased by EUR 200 and then three years after each with EUR 100, in order to take a major step towards an acceptable income limit. Ladies and gentlemen, today about 7% to 8% of our population can call on a pro-Deo lawyer. If this law is adopted and is fully implemented, the proportion of residents who can rely on partial or total assistance from a lawyer may rise to 30% after four years. That would be like the Netherlands. Ladies and gentlemen, this text has received broad support in the Justice Committee. I very much hope that there will also be very broad support in tomorrow's vote in plenary. Actually, I was hoping for unanimity. I know that some parties could not have voted in favour and voted against or abstained, but at least I am counting on a large majority so that we can take this very important step and put the guarantee of our Constitution into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we adopt this text tomorrow, our democracy will grow out of it because it will consolidate a new right: this right to legal aid, which will no longer be provided for in a regulation, but in a law. It will grow because it will be a historic step forward; indeed, the last thresholds that were set, although recalculated at the margin, were set in 2003, seventeen years ago. Today, with a large majority in this Parliament, we can finally respond to this first fundamental right which concerns all our citizens: that of being able to defend their rights. This right is legitimate, when you face an owner, when you have a need for child care, when you are prosecuted for criminal offences, when you are a foreigner without papers and you need someone to carry your voice. The lawyer, the "advocare", is the one who carries your voice. This legitimate right, today, will emerge strengthened, enshrined, in a law. It will be revised upwards because, as of this vote and on 1 September, this right will be increased by a threshold of EUR 200. It will be revised upwards, not marginally, but for 700,000 Belgians. Let's just say that when you vote tomorrow, it's just 700,000 people you'll be giving a new right to. And that will not stop there, because this Parliament is ambitious. Indeed, this threshold will continue to increase over the next three years. From 1 September to 1 September, we will increase from 200 to 300 euros, from 300 to 400 euros and from 400 to 500 euros. In the end, it will be more than 2.5 million Belgians who in 2023 can simply say: "I can now have the assistance of a lawyer so that I can legitimately defend my right in court." 2.5 million Belgians are currently deprived of this right. And it is not specifically the poorest, but also the middle class. I am talking about this working middle class, who suffers, who earns less than 1,500 euros a month and who, tomorrow, for that same reason, by working full time, will be able to afford not to choose between paying rent, filling his fridge and asking to defend his rights, but to pay the three at the same time. As a result, she will be able to defend herself with the help of a professional justice officer. So tomorrow, when we vote, we will dedicate this historic advance to those who are litigants, but also to those who are fighting daily to defend these rights. As such, I would like to send a message to lawyers in the legal aid sector that they should not worry about. As Mr Van Hecke has pointed out, we have twice made the detour by the Court of Auditors, in order to quantify this bill, so as to make it clear to us what amount – if 2.7 million Belgians integrate this totally free legal aid scheme in 2023 – it will be necessary to make provision for the state budget to continue to finance the services of lawyers. We now have these figures: they are zero for this year and for 2021. By 2022, they will reach about 35 million euros and grow. Today, I believe that we can afford – to devote a new right to more than 2.5 million Belgians – to consider an extension of the budget of 30 million in 2022. This fight for access to justice will not end tomorrow with a vote on this bill, since there are still many questions on this subject. I know that they are shared by all the parties that supported the text. This debate concerns in particular the dedicated firms, the facial value of the point assigned to the lawyer (which has no longer been indexed), the frequency at which these lawyers who dedicate themselves to legal aid are paid. We will approach all these projects, as we have done with this one: with serenity, patience and seriousness. We will ensure that access to justice in 2023 is further increased compared to what it is now. Believe us, believe you tomorrow, when you vote and support this text! It's not just a question of budget. These are new rights, rights now enshrined in a law whose progress is ensured by law and which can only be restrained if a majority emerges in this Parliament in the future. In addition to this, there will be no indexation to date, which will now also be covered by legislation. To these 2.5 million Belgians, whether they are in a precarious situation or coming from the middle or other classes, I say: Don't wait anymore to make your voice heard, to ask for your voice to be heard! A lawyer will now be at your side to carry it and make your rights and claims heard."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, raising the income threshold to qualify for second-line legal assistance is a particularly positive initiative to ensure better access to justice. Access to justice is a fundamental right and is one of the foundations of the rule of law. Today, income limits are unrealistically low and, unfortunately, many people are falling out of the boat. This often leads to very poignant situations, with important consequences which have not yet been mentioned and which we must not lose sight of. If the seeker cannot rely on the second-line assistance, this has important consequences, including no free legal aid. In practical terms, this does not mean assistance for the costs of a court bailiff, for interpretation work, for medical assistance in the context of an expert examination, etc. Both are inextricably linked. If a pro-Deo lawyer is assigned, he is automatically entitled to free legal aid. It just needs to be asked. Our group will therefore support this proposal with great enthusiasm. However, we must be aware that there is a catch. In any event, this proposal will increase the budget both for the reimbursement of lawyers for services provided and for the provision of additional management fees for the Legal Assistance Offices. The question then arises: is this government prepared to increase substantially the amount of second-line legal assistance? Today, that is far too low. I would have liked to have received a clear answer today from the Minister. Unfortunately, he remains absent from this important debate. In addition to raising the financial thresholds for the award of a pro-Deo lawyer, we must also dare to recognise that there are unfortunately abuses today, both among a small minority of lawyers and those seeking justice. A thorough monitoring of livelihoods is not always done today. Often an explanation of honour, for example for owning a car, a real estate, a savings account is sufficient. That's gotta be better. We must also dare to tackle these abuses. We must not close our eyes to this. During the hearing, it was found that the desks were working on a system to better identify and filter possible abuses of legal aid. This system was to be deployed in an initial phase in September. But we must not wait for this system to function properly and take initiatives more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this proposal is not enough. More is needed to ensure full access to justice. Correct and timely remuneration of lawyers is important, otherwise good and competent lawyers, who are also working partly under the second-line assistance today, are threatened to drop out. The value of a point today is 75 euros, which is far too low. In the past, proposals have already been made here in the Chamber to establish the value of a point with an opinion from the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, it has remained with proposals. The gross value has never been determined and theoretically it is possible that the value of a point per year may differ and even fall below that 75 euro. During the hearing, the Order of Flemish Balies (OVB) rightly made a plea to establish the value of a point and to provide an indexing. Reference was rightly made to abroad because in most countries compensation for the pro-Deo attorneys is significantly higher. I would just like to give you the example of the Netherlands, which is EUR 110.62 per item, with an allowance of EUR 10.88 per point for the first 1,500 points of the year. That is de facto EUR 120 per point. The system also works differently there, with what is called the'social lawyer' and channeling the pro-Deo nominations to law firms that focus on this social lawyer to ensure profitability. Unfortunately, that is not the case here. It should also be a focus of attention to ensure that lawyers who are willing to work under the second-line assistance are given the opportunity to work in a cost-effective manner. Otherwise, quality cannot be delivered and these lawyers are dismissed, which should certainly not be the intention. It is certain that an amount of EUR 75 per point is far from realistic in order to properly compensate a lawyer for the services provided. Today there is an underestimate of the work to be done in assessing the value of a point. During the hearing an interesting comparison was made with the concrete example of a case dealt with on the one hand in the context of second-line legal assistance and on the other hand in the context of legal aid insurance. The gap was very large. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the OVB's call for further research and consultation in order to achieve a more realistic remuneration. Colleagues, another pain point remains the late payout of the pro-Deo attorneys. Today they have to wait one and a half years to get paid because the closed envelope system is being used. Of course, that's way too long. This should also be considered. Initiatives are needed, such as working with interim payments. That is a suggestion that we heard during the hearings, but there will undoubtedly be others. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are rightly working on an increase in income limits. This will mean that the number of people able to use second-line legal assistance will increase significantly. In order to manage this in practice, attention should also be paid to the excessive administrative burden, both for the seeker and for the lawyer. For example, different documents and certificates must be submitted in the application. Let me give you an example. For a person who stamps proof of the monthly amount of the allowance by the union or auxiliary cash is not sufficient, a separate certificate must also be submitted stating the number of days and the amount per day. In the trade unions this is delivered relatively quickly. Unfortunately, it is a different story at the Auxiliairekas For unemployment benefits. It brings with it a lot of administrative work, especially for the lawyers. That too should be easier. The hearing made proposals in this area, e.g. the use of the electronic identity card and the automatic search of all possible databases necessary to provide a picture of the income and property situation of a seeker. Initiatives must also be taken to this end. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the reduction of VAT on the performance of lawyers, because even if the income limits are raised, an increase of 21 percent is an increase in the invoice for many people who are above the new limit and who do not belong to the great earners, or who are unable to bring the invoice into some company, a rather heavy financial burden. The reduction of VAT, together with the promotion of legal aid insurance, can provide a solution to this problem. I hope that this will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a justice accessible to all was one of the five demands of the judicial world that had been mobilized during the last legislative campaign under the theme "the rule of law, I believe! 66 days to save justice." One of the five claims, because alongside this, the judicial world always demanded and demanded other measures that also had a budgetary impact: to respect and fill the cadres in all jurisdictions and prosecutors, judicial buildings in good working order for litigants and staff, and, last but not least, a well-functioning and integrated computer system. These demands have been relayed and integrated into most electoral programmes: raising the thresholds of legal aid is undoubtedly a measure that all political groups consider legitimate. It is therefore an integral part of the MR programme. Our intention is to make it a reality, but not any other way, without worrying about the rest. The bill before us today represents, following three annual increases, an additional cost of EUR 177 million for legal aid and without any flexibility, since the annual indexing mechanism will now be anchored in the law and not in a royal decree. For us Liberals, it is not responsible for voting this now. We proposed, however, to achieve a first result: to increase the minimum threshold for access to legal aid by aligning it to the poverty line, to "monitor" the first step in order to examine whether the measure would bear fruit and, finally, to consider subsequent increases. If this bill, supported in committee by the left-wing parties and the Vlaams Belang, is adopted in plenary, the MR hopes that it will have no impact on other measures just as necessary for the judiciary. I am thinking of what the Attorney General De Valkeneer has told us about police violence, of the indispensable commitment of magistrates to reduce the number of cases closed for reasons of opportunity, according to jargon, which remains far too high. I am also thinking of the value of the pro deo lawyers' point, which has been held at 75 euros for many years. Yet between 2014 and 2019, the total budget for justice increased from 1.8 billion to 1.9 billion. As a result, it has not decreased, but many requests are still pending. For these reasons, the MR will vote against the bill. We have repeated this on several occasions during the debates: such a step must be taken within the framework of a full-fledged government agreement, which will have to make arbitrations on the basis of the budget available to it in order to meet all the legitimate demands of the judiciary and the litigants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB has for several years denounced the fact that the ceilings for access to legal aid are far too low and below the poverty line. In 2019, one in ten Belgians was at risk of living below the poverty line. In practice, many people who find it difficult to make ends meet have been excluded from legal aid. The priority of families is to shelter, to feed themselves, to clothe themselves, to care for themselves and not to bear the costs of any legal proceedings. Justice is not cheap. In view of the current obstacles, waiving rights is often the only option. It is not possible for only those with money to have access to justice. This is how we create class justice. Christelle Triffaut, a member of the Justice for All Platform, said: "Today, the finding is that in Belgium, litigants abandon the idea of asserting their rights, for lack of accessible justice, and it is very serious." Manuella Cadelli, former president of the Association Syndicale des Magistrats, stated in September 2019 that the justice budget had been cut by 20% in recent years. According to her, "it is a justice of the poor that does not even welcome the poor". Access to justice has been put under pressure under the previous legislature with the collection of VAT on lawyers' fees, the increase in role fees, the provisions on procedural allowances and the tightening of access to second-line legal aid, in particular with the introduction of a flat-rate contribution, even though the latter restriction has in the meantime been annulled by the Constitutional Court. These problems we denounce have also been raised on several occasions by the Anti-Poverty Service, the Justice for All Platform, the Council of State and the Constitutional Court. For us, legal aid and access to justice are inextricably linked. Indeed, if a person does not have the financial means to bear the cost of legal advice, he/she is denied access to justice and is therefore unable to protect his/her rights. It is obvious that we cannot ignore. Today, we offer ourselves the opportunity to revisit this sad observation. This is a political choice and the consideration of the least fortunate must be a priority. The PTB welcomes the vote on the bill to improve access to second-line legal aid by increasing the financial thresholds for accessibility. From now on, the thresholds for access to full or partially free legal aid will be gradually increased by several hundred euros and will take a little more account of the social realities of our country. The thresholds for access to legal aid will be increased by €200 as of September 2020; then, an increase in this threshold will take place every year until 2024. The amount deducted from income per dependant, usually children, will be increased to 20 per cent of social integration income instead of currently 15 per cent. If the text is adopted today in plenary, it can enter into force in September, at the beginning of the judicial year. These measures are a major step in the right direction but may not be sufficient to ensure access to justice for all. An increase of several hundred euros should be applauded, but the threshold for access to legal aid should be set above the poverty line to ensure effective and effective access to justice for all. We hope that this can be a starting point for other legislative initiatives to abolish the financial, material, temporal, linguistic and social barriers that citizens encounter in their access to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this dossier has already been preceded by a great deal of work. Mr Van Hecke, we have admitted that too, and that is certainly not our problem. What we have here today is the raising of income thresholds for those who wish to make use of second-line legal assistance. For the record, we are not against this principle. For our party, accessible justice has always been one of the key points in ensuring the proper functioning of justice in a rule of law. We therefore believe that everyone has the right to access to justice, including those with lower incomes. However, we have not adopted this proposal in committee and we will not do so tomorrow in plenary. Although we support the principle of subsidiarity, we are deeply concerned about the financial impact of this text. We would therefore have liked to see a greater sense of financial responsibility here in Parliament, where this text is likely to be adopted tomorrow. These proposals will cost EUR 77 million in the first year and will cost up to 177 million by 2024. I know that this phased increase is already a concession from the proposers, because the original proposals would have increased the budget by a minimum of EUR 41 million to a maximum of EUR 278 million per year. Nevertheless, a recurring cost of 177 million euros is certainly significant. In these financially bizarre times, when money must be sought to meet, among other things, all the needs arising from the health crisis, we find this impact on the budget at least careless and even irresponsible. Moreover, as Mr M.R. said, a pre-financing has also been made for the next three to four years. Colleagues, the money will have to come sometime today and Justice has a lot of needs. The question is where we're going to save. Are we going to save on decent detention, on the safety of penitentiary staff or on computerization? Are we just going, since the pro-Deo system is working with a closed envelope, to bring down the value of the point? For the record, I do not believe that this is the intention of the proposers. We believe that what is now on the table is actually something that should have been regulated in a government agreement. It's a matter for a government with full authority. Of course, I do not want to have said at all that this Parliament must turn into a government voting machine. However, what those who will approve this proposal are doing here now is hypotheizing the future. Mr Van Hecke, for the record, it is not your fault that there is still no full government. A fully-fledged government would have the overall picture of the budget in mind and would be able to judge on a balanced increase in this dossier, taking into account other budget headings. Our group therefore finds it extremely regrettable that this proposal was accepted by a majority in committee. We are all in favour of the principle behind the proposal, but at the moment we cannot endorse it for the reason I have just mentioned. After all, we want the financial picture to be right, and we fear that the level of expenditure and the pre-collection will no longer allow this to happen. Parliament can adopt many measures, useful or not, but one day the bill will have to be paid, and that is why we will vote against the proposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u100	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the authors on the work they have done, which has been very thorough and has been very useful. There has been a very good discussion in committee on this. Many opinions, as far as possible, have also been taken into account, as well as the many, and rightly so, reservations expressed in committee, which, among other things, result in phasing out. For the sp.a, access to justice is the highest. Access to justice is a fundamental right for every citizen, but that fundamental right has remained too dead letter for many people. That is unacceptable to us in a democracy. Justice can only be accessible if it is affordable for everyone. In addition, strengthening access to justice is an effective way to combat the vulnerability of people in poverty. If we really want to bring justice closer to the citizens, we need to increase the income limits. Our group is therefore very pleased that there has been good cooperation in committee on this proposal and that solutions have now been found together to improve the second-line legal assistance. We therefore clearly fully support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u101	Mr. Chair, Minister, for many years we have been denouncing the revenue limits that allow access to legal aid. The current ceilings are far too low, below the current poverty line, to allow low-income people access to justice. They no longer reflect social reality and are unacceptable. As judges say, only the very poor or the very rich still have access to the courts. I hear that it was the left-wing parties that voted for this text. Mrs Gilson, I do not see how accessibility to justice has to do with a left-right debate. This has absolutely nothing to do with it! On the other hand, when you say that you made a proposal up to the poverty line and then you wanted to evaluate and phase, I will tell you that, in fact, that is what is being done. As early as September, it will be slightly above the poverty line and then phasing from year to year. That's what's going to happen. This debate cannot be reduced to a left-right debate. Personally, I'm neither left nor right. I simply believe that this is a debate on which all parties have special attention. Whether in government or not, I don't see the difference so much, since we all had a commitment to this legal aid. The current ceilings penalize the lower middle class. It's not just being extremely poor. This lower middle class is currently penalized. It does not have access to justice, on the one hand, because it is not within the thresholds and, on the other hand, because it is not rich enough. Access to justice is therefore prevented for a large number of citizens. In addition to the fact that they are not eligible for legal aid or legal aid, they must pay registry fees, a 21 % VAT on lawyers' fees and, of course, these fees are often very high. We had to raise these thresholds to allow this access to justice, that access to a basic public service. Of course, the proposal that has been voted on in committee will have a cost, but when we see the differences between the countries of Europe in terms of access to legal aid - for the record, in the Netherlands, it is 37% compared to 7% to 8% in Belgium - the conclusion is very fast. The budgetary impact at these times of crisis is of course important, but the change in the ceilings for access to legal aid is all the more important, given the difficulties faced by those in need. However, I would like to point out that this proposal has been on the table for a long time, long before the crisis started, and that it is even more important in the times before it takes us. On the other hand, the amounts indicated must be nuanced since lawyers themselves will have increased professional revenues which will necessarily be subject to tax. This goes without saying, but it is essential to reaffirm that lawyers must continue to benefit from a stable point that is not dependent on the number of cases or the Legal Aid Fund. A major step forward had been the establishment of the EUR 75 point, guaranteed by the Legal Aid Fund, and an increase in the legal aid budget. It is obvious that we cannot go back. The envelope must be opened to allow this public service to be filled in in a dignified manner for both litigants and lawyers who provide this service. It would, of course, be counterproductive if the increase in the ceiling caused lawyers to be underpaid, which would obviously not make it possible to render a quality public service. On the other hand, as many of my colleagues have also done, I protest against the idea that there would be many mistakes in second-line legal aid. Avocats.be is obviously false "against the assertion that there are many abuses in second-line legal aid known to all but very rarely sanctioned. The appointment of a lawyer for a litigant is made only after a thorough and precise examination of what is in good condition. Many applications for designation do not succeed because the applicant is clearly not in the conditions, does not provide a complete file..."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u102	Mrs Matz, I would like to interrupt, but as you personally called me, I have to react. It is a fact that the left-wing parties and the Vlaams Belang voted for this text. You are neither left nor right, but the others are all left parties, plus the Vlaams Belang. We proposed aligning ourselves with the poverty line. In the proposal submitted here, I do not know how Mr Aouasti reaches 35 million. But we - and Mrs Gabriëls also said - in the Court of Auditors' documents, we come to 177 million more out of a total budget of 1.9 billion. It was 1.8 billion at the start. Out of 1.9 billion, 177 million, we estimate that this is a lot. This Parliament is constantly voting for texts that cost a lot of money. Of course, the ideal would be to be able to offer everything to everyone for free, but the money has to come from somewhere. The state budget is not infinite. I have the impression that, in this Parliament, we are holding tearful speeches, but we must be reasonable. Situations of distress exist. However, let us allow a full-fledged government, which will be able to do its job and make arbitrations, as soon as it has been formed, to offer an opportunity for legal aid, certainly, but not to the detriment of other policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u103	We're not in committee. Mr. Aouasti was arrested. Mr. Van Hecke felt arrested. I assume you have already held all these debates in committee. We are not going to start them again here, or resume the discussion of the figures. Otherwise, the opinion of the Court of Auditors will be sought shortly. I can smell the ball coming! We've already done the Council of State twice today. Never two without three! Mr Aouasti, then Mr Van Hecke, you have the floor. Then I will give the floor to Mrs Matz to conclude her speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I know they say lawyers don't know how to count. I'm being asked how we get a figure of 35 million. It is very simple with regard to the legal aid system. The first increase would be EUR 200. According to the Court of Auditors, this brings us to a budget of EUR 77 million for the State – but not for this year. This amount is linked to the new population that would enter in September. However, if you are familiar with the legal aid and legal aid compensation system, you know that the point encoding only takes place after the end of the benefit and that it must take place by June 30th. In addition, compensation is not paid until June 30 of the following year. In other words, if all new entrants on 1 September were to initiate a procedure which, by miracle – given the time limits of Belgian justice – would end before 30 June 2021, lawyers would be paid, at best, only on 30 June 2022. This means that there will be no budgetary impact for 2021 and that, for the year 2022, if everyone returned and the cases were closed - while the backlog would disappear as if by enchantment - the additional cost would reach half of the envelope, i.e. 35 million euros. It seems to me to be possible to find such a sum in 2022, when I see that your group supports an amendment by the Open Vld which introduces an expenditure of EUR 1 billion in a text for which reference has been requested to the Council of State. Between EUR 1 billion for tax fraud and EUR 35 million for legal aid!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u105	We have indeed had this discussion in committee. The figures were put on the table there. We've had two reports from the Court of Auditors. I think that few texts with two calculations by the Court of Auditors will be put to the vote in plenary. I have seen few liberal texts with calculations from the Court of Auditors. I fully support my colleague's argument, and I would like to add two more points. Firstly, the first payments will indeed only have to be made in 2022 for four twelfths of the planned budget, since from September to December there are four twelfths of a year. That's four twelfths of 77 million euros. Secondly, the expenses are revenue for the lawyer. Those are wages for a lawyer. Social security contributions are paid for that. Taxes are also paid on this. We often talk about payback effects, but if there is now one measure that has a cost but also a payback effect, then it will be this measure. Some will be returned, unfortunately not to the Justice Department but to the Treasury. The argument from a liberal angle is that it will cost a huge amount of money. Yeah, it'll cost money, but this is a fundamental right. One should not exaggerate, this must be nuanced. I thought it was important to repeat this here, so that it becomes clear in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u106	I do not think that anyone in the committee questioned the figures. There are two opinions from the Court of Auditors. No one's questioning the numbers. Let us just talk about the recurring cost on an annual basis, everyone knows that it will be EUR 177 million in the long term. Let us not discuss the figures, because everyone agreed with what it would cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u107	There may be a left and a right side in the Court of Auditors. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u108	(...) It is written on the table of the Court of Auditors, from September 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u109	But there is no agreement between you. The Court of Auditors is like the Gospel: you believe it or you do not believe it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u110	Mr President, you say that when you give me the floor... I'm not going to dwell on the numbers. This question is of course important, and I think that our two colleagues have largely justified it, since you are talking about a short term, the constitution of a government - in any case, we hope. So the question is not that. You're talking about arbitrations. Can you imagine that, because we would have done legal aid, everything else, we would put it aside? Unless some say "cracks", it seems to me that all democratic parties, who want justice to have more resources, realize that this will not be limited to legal aid. This is an essential element for accessibility to the service. But of course, as we know, there is the condition of the buildings, the appointment of magistrates, the executive, the missing staff. There will be a need for substantial resources for justice. We had estimated this at EUR 500 million in additional resources for justice. At some point, we must be able to put our words into practice. To say that the budget of justice under the previous government... I apologize, but we don't really have to live in the same country. All the justice services that have been interviewed in committee have told us the same thing: the means have been reduced compared to the number of complementary missions that have been repeatedly requested by the courts. Nevertheless, a substantial increase in the justice budget must be foreseen, both for this second line legal aid and for many other budget lines. We have said that for a long time. Despite the budgetary difficulties, our group remains very much in favour of the bill before us, and we hope that it will come into force this September 2020. Another point seems important to us. All the conditions are now laid down by law - Mr Aouasti has repeated - including the ceilings and their adaptation to the evolution of the index, which will begin in 2024. Until then, each amount will be increased by 100 euros on 1 September of the year, for the first time in September 2021 and for the last time on 1 September 2023, the date from which the amounts will be indexed. We would, of course, have preferred to move immediately to a substantial amount, but we stress, as we have done in committee, the constructive amendment tabled by Messrs. Van Hecke and Aouasti to do a phasing out in order to try to meet this budgetary objection which is important, but which is no longer tenable with regard to the amounts currently defined. For budgetary reasons, the amounts will be scalable. "One of yours is better than two you will have," and that is why we support this compromise. We welcome these advances and our group will vote in favour of this text, without reservation, because it offers greater access to justice to many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u111	This bill is an important legislative proposal, especially in the light of the improvement of access for legal persons to second-line assistance. Access to justice and the right to defence are fundamental rights which must be guaranteed in our democracy. The legal support of an attorney is a right that belongs to everyone and not only to those who can afford it. CD&V agrees to extend and facilitate access to second-line assistance for seekers. We have always said this in committee. We have joined the search to achieve this in a realistic way. We are convinced that income limits need to be revised. However, this proposal goes a long way in budgetary terms, especially in the year 2024. There is also an adjustment, which now provides for a very extensive presumption of eligibility for free second-line assistance. These two elements have forced us to see the opening too wide. So we abstained on this in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic consequences of the corona crisis are not yet fully clear, and we have not yet seen the last of them. In the meantime, many legitimate measures have been taken in this Parliament to protect citizens and businesses that will also have a major budgetary impact. We believe that we will see the full budgetary impact in 2022. We therefore believe that we should be vigilant at the moment. Nevertheless, because we are always looking for solutions, we have put forward a proposal in committee through an amendment which we agreed to provide for a one-off and direct increase in income limits of EUR 200 from September 2020. That seemed to us to be an acceptable compromise. A proposal initially limited in time, to see what budgetary impact it will have in 2022 and to see what we will be able to provide for in the budget in the next few years. First of all, we must ensure that we have a realistic and correct budget. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we do not want to'set up' this proposal until 2024, because we do not want to do anything about symbol legislation. We want to make sure that the resources are available when we need them. We do not want this legislation to miss its purpose. Having said that, we live in a democracy. Democracy has spoken out in committee. We accept the majority's decision, and we will not vote against it, because we are also in favour of increasing the income limits for second-line assistance. However, we will abstain for the sake of budgetary caution. Finally, I would like to thank the initiators for this important proposal and for the debate we have had in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that Mrs Slegers was not on the list. I therefore had to add it, as Mrs Rohonyi did on procedural issues. If others want to register, it must be pointed out because it becomes improvisation. I conditioned Mrs. Rohonyi's speech on her brevity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u113	Mr President, I assure you that we have made our request in time. But the concern lies in the fact that we are not part of the Conference of Presidents and, therefore, we were only able to register for these various points when we echoed the decision taken at the same conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u114	This will be better after the next election!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u115	Hence my willingness to speak on this fundamental text. I would like to thank my colleagues for the tabling of this proposal, which aims to make access to justice a reality. It was essential because it is access to justice that determines the very exercise of our rights, whether we are socio-economically strong or weak. It was also essential, because this access has been reduced to grief under our two previous federal governments, as a result of a significant increase in the costs of justice. In this case, I am thinking of lawyers' fees, registry fees, the costs of calling, bailiffs, expertise and translation, and also of the famous introduction of a moderator ticket. Admittedly, the procedural allowance now allows for the "repeatability" of lawyers' fees. However, it is only a flat-rate intervention by the succumbing party in the winning party's fees and is conditioned by the judge's decisions not to compensate the costs. As I said, the amount of registry fees has been increased under the previous legislature, despite the insistent request of the Council of State to assess them in the light of all the financial burdens already imposed on the litigants. Second-line legal aid is more than ever a relief buoy for those who wish to assert their rights in court. Except that these conditions, as has been said and repeated, and I think it is essential, remain far too strict today and have the effect of reserving legal aid to the most disadvantaged classes while knowing that the current ceilings do not even correspond to the poverty line. The solutions introduced by the final version of this bill thus allow for the inclusion of a significant part of the middle class, which is now excluded from legal aid, and thus finally enables the State to assume its responsibilities for the effectiveness of a fundamental right. Mrs Gilson, you were talking about responsibility. In fact, do you consider today that he is responsible for having justice that is costly to such an extent that, after calculation, an increasing number of litigants prefer to turn their backs on him and thus remain drowned in conflicts that, left in the state, risk exacerbating? Is it possible to exclude all those who have to go to court, forced by circumstances, personal or family drama, or by dismissal, serious bodily harm or dishonest entrepreneur? Of course not. That is why, as has been said, there was an urgent need to increase access thresholds for second-line legal aid and to include them in the legislation. We have had this debate in committee as well. It was important to include them in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u116	Mrs Gilson, if you want to speak, ask for it! Is that for a personal fact? Did Mrs. Rohonyi mention you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u117	Yes, I quoted it, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u118	I give you the floor, Mrs Gilson.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u119	Mr President, I will not repeat the whole debate that has taken place in committee. At MR, we already agreed to increase access to legal aid at the poverty line. But we must not deduce anything else from the fact that we consider that all the challenges of justice must be considered in a comprehensive way, - this is the case for you!- and respond to them equally comprehensively. That is not to say that we are answering the question that you are asking, that we cannot defend ourselves or have access to justice, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u120	However, I note, Mrs Gilson, - I quote your name, the MR's representative - that in doing so, you are refusing to support a solution that will allow the litigants facing the types of litigation I have just mentioned to go to court.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u121	I must give the floor to Mrs Gilson. That's the rules. If you don't hear it, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u122	We had already made a proposal that gave access to justice to anyone below the poverty line, to deal with the urgency. For the rest, we know that discussions are under way and we hope to have a government as soon as possible. We believe that the problems facing justice must be addressed together and not limited to a single theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u123	I'm going on. These access thresholds must be increased, but also included in the law because it will result in much greater legal certainty than if they were included in a simple royal decree, which is known to have deprived us of the public debate, rich, contradictory and transparent that we had in committee. This debate was accompanied by opinions from the Court of Auditors and the Finance Committee. It proves that the improvement in access to legal aid which is carried by this text – and which was carried out by all parties during the last elections – is far from having been realized "anyhow", to use the terms used by the MR representative. On the contrary, the number of opinions we have obtained, the number of discussions in committee and the number of amendments tabled are proof of how constructive and responsible the Committee on Justice has produced. Such work was essential, even more so in the case of such a fundamental right as access to justice. Improving access to second-line legal aid is a focus on the quality and affordability of justice that the Minister of Justice has always called for in the previous government. It is true that this text will have a budgetary impact. That is why we have twice asked the Court of Auditors. But this is a choice of society, an opportunity which, if not seized today in Parliament, will ultimately have an even greater social, economic and therefore budgetary impact. It is also a question of supporting justice, as we have supported other sectors hit hard by the coronavirus crisis. Justice is not one sector like another: it is our third constituted power, a third power that will be sought more than ever before by the litigants because they will be confronted with bankruptcies, abusive dismissals, domestic violence, divorces, unpaid rents. I do not understand that this text cannot be supported by advocating other priorities in the field of justice. I understand this argument even less when it is raised by party representatives who were in the previous government and therefore had all the time and opportunity to respond to these priorities, these needs. It is true that our justice is ill for lack of means, and my group has constantly denounced it, but also because too many people are turning away from it. This cannot be accepted because justice is a whole. Justice is a public service that must function with a Finally full of judges, with judicial buildings and a computer system worthy of the name. But it is also a public service that must be accessible to everyone, regardless of their income, regardless of their financial facilities. It is about our social peace. It is a fundamental right that every democrat must defend not only at the time of the elections, but also and above all, at the appropriate time, in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u124	Colleagues, I have the feeling that we have already started the discussion on the future Justice budget with a possible future government. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u125	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (175/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (175/10) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposed law amending the Judicial Code in order to improve access to second-line legal aid and legal aid by increasing the income ceilings applicable in this area". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the Code of the Court in order to improve access to second-line legal assistance and legal aid, by increasing the income ceilings in force." The bill has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u127	I have just received a motion to amend the agenda of the plenary meeting on 16 July, so tomorrow, in accordance with rule 17.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, tabled by Mr. Dallemagne, Ms. Van Hoof, Mr. Cogolati, Mr. Piedboeuf and Mr. Van Quickenborne. The motion reads as follows: "The House of Representatives proposes to amend the agenda of the plenary session on 16 July to include the motion for a resolution on Taiwan's place on the international stage. This motion for a resolution was adopted in the Committee on External Relations on 8 July. The adopted text and the report were distributed on Monday, 13 July, and validated at 1 p.m. Therefore, this proposal is ready to be put on the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday, 16 July 2020. In particular, this resolution calls for support for any diplomatic initiatives aimed at mitigating emerging threats to peace in the Asia-Pacific region around Taiwan. It is therefore important to approve it before the parliamentary holidays." The motion reads as follows: "The Chamber of Representatives proposes to amend the agenda of the plenary session of 16 July 2020 in order to add the proposal for a resolution on the international position of Taiwan ( DOC 55/1206). This proposal for a resolution was adopted in the Committee on External Relations on 8 July 2020 and the text adopted and the report were distributed on Monday 13 July and validated at 1 p.m. Consequently, this proposal is ready to be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday 16 July 2020. In particular, this resolution calls for support for all diplomatic initiatives aimed at reducing the new threats to peace in Asia and the Pacific region around Taiwan. It is therefore important that this motion for a resolution be adopted before the parliamentary recess. The Conference of Presidents had not agreed; there was no consensus. A motion has therefore been tabled to amend the agenda and it will be considered tomorrow at the beginning of the sitting to see if we are amending our July 16 agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u128	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Bercy Slegers, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u129	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u130	Mr President, in view of the busy agenda, I am of course referring to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u131	Thank you, Mrs Dillen. I will give you the floor immediately for your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u132	Mr President, the present legislative proposal can be described as yet another potpourri, covering many aspects of our legislation. It was initially a very large proposal, which was reduced by means of amendments. A number of controversial elements were removed from the original text, but absolutely insufficient. It remains yet another potpourri in which Minister of Justice No one wants to push through a number of very different elements that are absolutely not corona-related. Colleagues, the bill is not from the Minister of Justice. I also regret the fact that he once again excels in his absence. The proposal comes from Mr Slegers and Mr Verherstraeten, but was actually drafted by the services of the Minister of Justice. We don't have to be silly about that. Everyone knows that. The method followed is, in itself, not susceptible to criticism, but still makes the eyebrows frown. The Council of State is right to point out to Members of Parliament the consequences of the procedure that is being followed here. We all know that a draft law requires a number of formal requirements. I am thinking of the different advice questions. The usefulness of such a procedure is that the results of these consultations can be incorporated into the draft law, which is the final stage of the preparatory procedure. The Council of State therefore pointed out that at the end of the consultation process, after the other bodies or authorities have been consulted, it would be desirable to seek an opinion from the Legislative Section. In this way Parliament will be given a draft with sufficient guarantees to take account of the results of the prior optional or mandatory formal requirements. This didn't happen. The Council of State is therefore right to state that there are no guarantees that the text takes into account the results of the formal requirements. In fact, not all the necessary consultations have taken place in this proposal. I think it is absolutely outrageous to push it down Parliament's throat. That is not just the position of our group, but of almost all the bodies that have been consulted. An urgent opinion was requested from the Council of State. The Council of State has really levelled the argument of urgency. The Council of State has therefore only shed light on those parts that are corona-related. Not about the rest. The Council of State clearly warns that the opinion cannot be guaranteed to be complete, and states that not making a comment on a provision does not mean that the text is not open to criticism. We share the same criticism with the Supreme Court of Justice. I quote: 'The Supreme Court of Justice strongly rejects any procedure, will not give its opinion at this stage and will not accept that an opinion should be drawn up in such circumstances for legislative provisions which are not really urgent'. That's what it sounds like right there. We hear the same criticism in the opinion of the Order of Flemish Balies, which clearly states that the comments are not exhaustive in nature, but that the proposed reforms require further research. The criticism of the Magistrate's Advisory Council is also particularly striking in this respect. I quote: 'The vast majority of the provisions of this proposal are of no urgency. They are not related to the health crisis and are not considered because of the crisis. This working method is not conducive to relations between the state institutions, while they must be able to trust each other and cooperate as much as possible." A criticism, ladies and gentlemen, which can really count. This is proof that there is a need for a deeper debate on the substance, with hearings with the authorities concerned. Indeed, it concerns a number of far-reaching reforms on the basic principles of justice, for which a further in-depth investigation is absolutely necessary. Colleagues, I will conclude my speech. It's an unjustified supreme law. Experience has shown that such a practice leads to the adoption of laws whose provisions are not well thought out and/or poorly drafted. The number of repair laws already issued or considered by the Constitutional Court following judgments of destruction is proof of this. Our group does not want to participate in such a procedure. We are not saying that there are not some things in the law that are good. You can't hear us say that at all. But we will abstain on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 May, we considered this proposal in plenary and chose to have it dealt with in a matter of urgency. Thank you for that, colleagues. After the introductory part of this legislative proposal, we received a lot of reactions from colleagues on certain chapters, which were found to be too little corona-related or on which we wanted to have a more thorough discussion. We decided to deal with the political groups' proposals and to inform them of a number of chapters and proposals contained in this bill, including the use of videoconference in criminal matters, the written procedure, the restoration of bailiffs and most of the provisions relating to the amendment of the law on notarial duties. However, CD&V remains in favour of these measures. For us this is a respite and not a setback. We will certainly come back to this and have a more thorough debate in Parliament. We had two constructive committee meetings, where all the provisions were carefully discussed and assessed and the text was amended on the basis of all the opinions received. I am glad that the majority of the original legislative proposal is before the plenary today. I would like to address a number of issues in this bill. The legislative proposal includes a series of refinements and adjustments to civil status legislation. These are technical improvements, which, however, were suggested by civil servants themselves, so that their work can be 100% correct and the digital operation is 100% correct. In addition, this legislative proposal also responds to various judgments of the Constitutional Court in various areas. These corrections allow us to fully safeguard the principle of equality and the right of access to justice in these cases. The bill also responds to a call from the Supreme Court for Justice, which, following Julie Van Espen's case, asked for the policy to pursue a thorough formation of the magistrate in the field of sexual and intra-family violence. This training will contribute to raising awareness of the problem of sexual violence. A distinction is made between basic training and in-depth training, which the magistrates will have to follow at the Institute of Judicial Training. A transitional measure is provided for as they will have two years to do so. According to the IGO, this training can be carried out easily through webinars, which actually ensures that the two-year period introduced from the entry into force of the law is a feasible period for all magistrates to be able to follow the training. This is an important step forward in helping to raise awareness of this issue, as it is being confronted in more and more cases, directly or indirectly. As a fourth point, I would like to stress that a shortened digital procedure is being introduced on the final step in the service of the bailiffs. If the person to be served has no address or is untraceable, the bailiff will now be able to do the service digitally by having them recorded in the central register. This innovation avoids a number of movements from the bailiffs to the parquets involved and allows the exploit to be charged digitally. The time of charging shall then be deemed to be the date of service of the exploit to the competent prosecutor of the King. This measure has a positive impact both on citizens and on bailiffs and courts. They are all faced with less costs and more efficient operation. The legislative proposal also provides for the introduction of a mechanism to monitor more effectively the number of cases pending in the overall role. Today there are a lot of things on the table that are dormant and hanging and that makes it difficult to properly assess the workload of courts and courts. The Registrar will now send a letter to the parties for those cases in which no hearing took place for 18 months to obtain the file from the active role, but as soon as a party replies that it does not wish to do so, the case will remain pending. It is also true that a request from the most qualified party may always result in the case being re-registered on the roll. This does not affect the rights of the parties. The bill also offers more flexibility in the seat of the Court of Assists. By corona, we must keep our distance, even in the courts and courts, of course. This could give rise to the search for larger, more suitable rooms to handle cases in a safe manner during the corona period. If no suitable room is found in the main place of the court of assists, a solution can be offered by looking for a larger sitting room in another place. Finally, this law on several urgent provisions postpones the entry into force of a number of laws because their roll-out has been delayed, also in view of the corona crisis. Colleagues, this legislative proposal on several urgent provisions on justice has three objectives: to make justice more efficient, to bring it into line with the Constitution and to avoid physical contacts, with a view to the further functioning of justice in the current pandemic context. I would like to thank the Minister's staff. They assisted us in committee. I would also like to thank colleagues from the Committee on Justice for the speedy handling of this legislative proposal and the very constructive cooperation in the debates, which will enable us to adopt the legislative proposal today, even before the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we sometimes talk about the shock strategy of taking advantage of a moment of great crisis or disaster in the population to impose political measures that would have been difficult to pass at another time. This is clearly the tactics that Minister Koen Geens used to impose his vision of the functioning of the judiciary. He tried to use the consequences of coronavirus on justice to make permanent temporary measures for the organization of the courts applied during confinement. Within the framework of the special powers established during the crisis, special measures were adopted through a royal decree. While these exceptional measures that empty the courtrooms of their audience had some interest during the health crisis, they should not continue after the deconfination. Indeed, they pose a danger to democracy and further deepen social inequalities in the face of justice. The Minister of Justice has therefore tried to make these measures permanent by inserting them into a general text on justice and by passing this text as a matter of urgency, with coronavirus as a pretext. In fact, most of these measurements had nothing to do with coronavirus. The Legislative Section of the Council of State points out that to table in the form of a bill a text which has been fully prepared by the executive authorities allows the Minister of Justice to dispense with a number of formalities which are not negligible guarantees. In this bill, therefore, there have been proposals for major changes which are questionable on several points such as civil written procedure and video conferencing in criminal proceedings, without any agreement as to the content of the text. However, legislative reform with permanent consequences must be carried out in close cooperation with the actors on the ground. A lifting of protests welcomed this desire to pass in force and urgency on these important issues. Both lawyers and magistrates and other legal professionals quickly criticized many aspects of the text. I want to talk about the Supreme Council of Justice, the SPF Finances, the Data Protection Authority, the National Chamber of Judicial Officers, the Judicial Advisory Council and the Association Syndicale des Magistrats. In the face of pressure from the various actors in the judiciary, the minister was obliged to withdraw from the text of his reform all measures aimed at the dehumanisation of justice and to step back to the level of his political agenda. Seeing a minister who can count on a majority in Parliament to be forced to back down on proposals is quite an exceptional fact. It is a message of hope for all those who are fighting against this government. It is also a victory for all those who are committed to human justice, more respectful of fundamental rights. We know the managerial logic currently at work in justice: pressure on productivity, logic of the figure, reduction of available budgets... The minister does not see justice as a public service. For us, on the other hand, justice does not have to be profitable. Today, we want to welcome this victory through mobilization and warn the Minister of Justice: we will not let him impose his vision of justice far from the citizens. Another proposal, also tabled by the Minister during the crisis of the VOCID-19 through parliamentarians, is the definition of a new Code of Criminal Procedure. This bill aims to abolish no less than three essential pillars of democratic justice: investigating judges, civil party systems and the popular jury. Such a measure is unacceptable! Trust in justice is an essential element in a democracy. To undermine this trust is a serious act, and this confidence also requires the direct participation of citizens. All the players in the judicial world and we are ready for a new arm around this text from the start.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u135	Mr President, the text presented today is an umpteenth pot-pourri that is significantly lightened, fortunately indeed. As noted by the Council of State, the original text was a huge bill that used the pretext of the coronavirus pandemic to pass a whole series of provisions that either were unacceptable or required a more documented analysis before they could be adopted, rather than being voted on by the Hussard. We were many to ask for the relief of this project and, fortunately, the firm listened to us. We thank you for that. You wanted to see certain measures taken as an emergency measure during the crisis, namely the written procedure before the courts and tribunals. This issue has led to the lifting of shields because the assessments of the facts have not yet taken place, although they are essential for the adoption of targeted measures on the basis of the courts and matters. For example, the presence of the parties is absolutely indispensable in the family court, in the labour court, and I pass it on. Judges, lawyers and litigants could not understand that this system of written procedure was being imposed without taking their interests into account. This written procedure was, moreover, used very little in some courtrooms, even during confinement, during which time magistrates and lawyers braved security measures to fulfil their role with a great deal of professional conscience with those who needed judicial intervention. Here's a first example. I will not take up all the matters that we have wanted to remove from this bill. Of course, we remain in favour of initiating procedures and living them more flexibly through digitisation, such as electronic filing of applications by unassisted litigants and other procedural simplifications. This would of course be the demand for the digital future of justice. Many provisions were accepted when they were not urgent, but because they were of common sense or good administration of justice, such as the transition to 24 alternate jurors in the court of assize; the unfortunate but necessary postponement of certain laws; the simplification of certain procedures in the matter of notariat; the simplification of the meanings to the king's prosecutor when the accused is not found; obvious answers to certain annulments issued by the Constitutional Court, etc. However, we have not been able to agree to re-establish video conferencing for prisoners who cannot be imposed rules that might be contrary to their right to defence. As a result, we worked constructively on the issues that we felt were acceptable and tabled an amendment on video conferencing before the Commission to assist victims of violence, allowing the individual concerned to always claim a hearing in physical presence, even if the chairman of the Commission would like to conduct it by video conferencing. The bill with various provisions is now relatively balanced and we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u136	Mr President, I am not going to repeat the lengthy debate that we have had in committee, but also in plenary because I asked the Minister of Justice that it was not acceptable to take advantage of the special powers to sustain measures that should have been exceptional and temporary. I am therefore very pleased with the work done in committee, but also with the office of the Minister of Justice. He understood that both the written procedure and the videoconference could not be generalized in this way. As a result, this umpteenth Pot-Pourri law has been redacted from the aspects that posed the most problems to the actors on the ground, in particular the magistrates and lawyers. They were very worried about it. I am pleased to see that the office of the Minister of Justice has had the wisdom to delete the most problematic points from the text. For the rest, we will support this text, although it is true that we would have preferred to have a more calm debate in this respect from the outset.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u137	I give the floor to the chairman of the committee for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u138	Mr President, as the previous speaker says, I think that we have started a difficult debate on this bill, but it has worked out well in the end. We've reached an agreement. It was a constructive Justice Commission. A number of aspects of the initial proposal have been highlighted. For our group, of course, this does not mean that the points raised in this proposal are not important to us. For example, on the issue of the videoconferencing, we hope that we will soon be able to hold a substantive debate on this in the Committee on Justice and people on the ground. So it is not because these aspects have been taken out of the proposal today that we do not like them. We hope to have an in-depth debate on it in the future in committee. Furthermore, I believe that there are a lot of positive things in this proposal, for example the more extensive education for magistrates to deal with sexual and partner violence. I think our committee has done its job, and I say that as chairman. We have also worked on this proposal to achieve a more concrete and supported result. Unfortunately, we must also note that in the proposal we must also vote for a further postponement of the discussion on the temporary staff framework. Which brings us to one of the pain points of the Justice Department. After all, there is still no workload measurement. I have been saying for as long as I have been in this House that this must be done. In the opinions we have had to read that a number of technical points are still not in order with regard to computerization. We can continue to vote laws in the Chambers to get the computerization in order, but if the technical side doesn't want to go, there's no point in voting those laws. We are therefore going to vote on this proposal. There has been a constructive attitude in our committee, but we still have some progress to make in the area of justice, and I think that remains a point of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u139	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u140	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1295/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1295/9) The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law on various urgent provisions in the field of justice." The title was amended by the Committee in the form of a legislative proposal laying down several urgent provisions on justice.' The bill has 115 articles. The bill has 115 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u141	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u142	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kathleen Depoorter, Peter De Roover, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Valerie Van Peel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u143	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u144	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u145	I give you the floor for your statement. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u146	I'm sorry, but you're not registered. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u147	This is your group secretariat. I'm turning to the service. This is not the first case. I therefore give the floor first to Mrs de Laveleye. We'll clarify your registration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u148	Mr President, I will take a few minutes because we have had exciting debates in committee. I'm still going to explain our position. The purpose of this bill is integrity in the area of development cooperation. We can only adhere to this principle. Integrity must be a central value of cooperation. It must, of course, be one of the pillars. What exactly are we talking about when we talk about integrity? In the lead of its authors, this proposal targets only displaced sexual behaviour and abuse of power in the form of sexual behaviour. This is in any case what was presented in the introductory statement. This can be regretted because integrity also covers financial integrity, so corruption and fraud, for example, in addition to moral and physical integrity, but it does. Integrity is therefore an element that must be central in all sectors and in any case in development cooperation, which must embody the values of human dignity, human rights, good governance, solidarity and equality. This is also the conviction of the sector itself, since its various actors are largely involved and this, for a very long time, in the establishment of procedures to ensure the integrity of their structures and their teams, we will return to it. If we take the trouble to analyse the proposal submitted to us by the colleagues of the N-VA, we realize that it poses several difficulties. These difficulties were also highlighted by the experts we interviewed on 4 December 2019, namely a representative of the cabinet of Minister De Croo, the director of the Flemish Federation of NGOs and the representative of the Fédération francophone des NGOs. These difficulties have been partially eased by useful amendments, notably by the N-VA but also by colleagues on the CD&V, but they remain. What are they? The first is that this bill is superimposed on mechanisms that are already present both in the law and in the practices of the sector. These elements were recalled by the representative of Mr. De Croo, who highlighted the various elements of the existing legal framework by putting integrity objectives at the forefront. We have been able to remember that the foundations of integrity are already found in the 2013 Development Cooperation Act, but also in the management contracts of ENABEL and BIO and in the royal decrees on humanitarian aid and on non-governmental cooperation. Beyond the legal framework, we must also point out that a mechanism specifically oriented towards integrity has been put in place since 2018 by Minister De Croo and the actors in cooperation: civil society organisations, institutional actors, BIO and ENABEL. Indeed, being aware that the commitment to integrity should always be strengthened, and aware that zero risk does not exist, the actors of the cooperation took the step to participate, together with the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation, in a task force "integrity" set up by Minister De Croo in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u149	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u150	I'm sorry. It's probably hard for the interpreters. Thank you for the comment. I'm gonna try to be a little quieter. This task force has led to various measures. The first is an "integrity" charter in which each of the organizations confirms its commitment on ten specific points. This charter was signed by the various actors. It is this charter that the proponents of the proposal wish to include in the law. The second measure is the establishment or updating of codes of conduct in each organization. Finally, the third is the introduction of reporting procedures for abuse that would occur despite risk prevention procedures. This system, consisting of task force, charter, codes of conduct and reporting procedures, has different merits. First, to be anchored in the realities of organizations and to be based on their own risk analysis, which is very different from one organization to another. We understand that the risk management of a front-line humanitarian NGO or advocacy NGO is necessarily different. This mechanism also has the merit of being built by the organisations themselves, with a system of control by DGD, of course. It thus gains in the ability to mobilize their members and thus to own the device. All of this to say that the current legal framework already puts integrity at the forefront and that, in addition, the sector, together with the Minister, DGD and stakeholders, has already given itself clear tools and beacons to continue to evolve. It therefore seems to us that this proposal is redundant and therefore largely unnecessary. The second difficulty we have with this bill is the respect and protection of victims. The text proposes to create a central point of contact for victims of abuse. That is a problem. The proposal does not provide sufficient guarantees with regard to respect for the privacy of individuals, and in particular of victims, while the objective is precisely to provide assistance to victims of abuse. It must therefore be understood that a person is the victim of an abuse and the description of his or her abuse arrives at a central point without a guarantee of confidentiality. This lack of guarantee undermines both the protection of the victim's privacy and the victim's safety, as it is not known how the victim's entourage can use this information. It can turn against her. It therefore seems to us that this proposal is potentially dangerous and counterproductive. The third difficulty is that the aim is to set up a central contact point which is both remote and not visible. I'll explain. Populations that may be victims or witnesses of abuse are very little, and are understood, experts in institutional arrangements for cooperation. It is therefore to be expected that a central point of contact is not really identifiable and therefore not really accessible to victims. On the other hand, the proposal stresses that this central point exists in parallel with and in parallel with the points of contact set up at the level of the organisation. While it is appropriate to keep decentralized contact points closer to the communities, the difficulty of having several contact points, namely decentralized contact points, on the one hand, and the central point, on the other, is well understood. In addition, there is the fact that actors have multiple donors who could all want to have their own focal point at once. The confusion would then become total for victims or witnesses of abuse. In short, this central point, which is intended to be neutral and accessible to all parties, would be de facto very little accessible, as it is very little identifiable by the parties directly concerned. It therefore seems to us that this proposal is ineffective. The fourth and final difficulty is that there is confusion between the individual responsibility of an abuser and the moral responsibility of the organization that employs him. Article 5 of the Act states that any breach of the obligations of the Charter of Integrity gives the Belgian State the right to proceed, in accordance with the gravity of the breach, to the immediate suspension, complete or partial, of the liquidation of the subsidies and to the termination, in full or in part, of the commitments within the framework of its programmes. This article, even though it has been the result of useful amendments, remains at least complex. If an employee or volunteer of an organization has engaged in criminal conduct, the responsibility of the organization must first be verified to see if its charter has been properly followed, implemented, etc., and, if necessary, to withdraw its subsidies. But there is nothing in the bill to explain how these links will be analysed and by whom, or when, a member's responsibility should fall on the organization as a whole. So it would be as if an employee of a supermarket was stealing from the caisse and the store was being chased for theft. This proposal seems to us to be unfair under the law. These are, therefore, the main difficulties that this text poses. In conclusion, the bill relates to an object – integrity – that is and must remain at the heart of our concerns, everywhere and all the time. Nevertheless, on the basis of the hearings, our experience of the file and our analysis, it seems redundant, and not only unnecessary, since the legal framework of the "Integrity" scheme put in place by the minister already responds to it. Moreover, it is counterproductive, as it does not guarantee the protection of victims' privacy. Moreover, due to its out-of-ground and centralized dimension, it is ineffective and potentially abusive for organizations. As such, we will not be able to support it. Thank you for your relative attention and, Mr. Chairman, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u151	Thank you, ma'am. We received the application at 2:31 p.m. I urge the group secretaries to make an effort to inform the House services in a timely and timely manner when it comes to writing a point, because it is somewhat disruptive to the general organization. We will try to make up for this with the reduction of the length of the interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u152	However, thank you for the floor, Mr President, because it is an important legislative proposal. I am very pleased that I am the second to be given the floor and that I have heard how this one left-wing party is all looking for excuses to bring down a bill dealing with victims of sexual abuse. I find that incomprehensible. I also hear the comparison between theft and sexual cross-border use. Are those the big, progressive words? We compare theft with a victim of sexual abuse who can bear the consequences of what has been done to him or her for a lifetime. That's hallucinating. With this bill, we will make the integrity charter binding. That was forgotten in the speech. It shall be binding and enforceable. We can indeed point out to actors their responsibilities. We are doing this for the most vulnerable victims, where the progressive parties in other debates are so full of words. Abuse of power in the form of sexual abuse is unacceptable, here, now, everywhere and always. We'll agree to that anyway. We have to face the fact that despite the steps that have been taken effectively, despite the integrity charter, it still happens too often. If you refer to internal reports, I must remind you that, despite these internal reports, there have been casualties very recently, but people have still fallen out of the boat. That is why we have taken this initiative. In the debates we have had on non-discrimination of sexual abuse, we have heard many testimonies from victims who indicate how difficult it is to cross that threshold in our social system, where there is a great deal of support to cross that threshold and to make it clear to the perpetrator that he should not do so with the victim, that he does not have that right. All the courage has to scrape those victims to report it anyway. When one thinks of a victim in a developing country, who depends on certain actors for his or her existence, for the existence of his or her family, who has no support like here, the need for this bill is much more obvious. I have heard all the side jumps that have been mentioned here in committee. I continue to find it remarkable that no progressive, left-wing party has approved this proposal. I'm not gonna keep comprehending this. There have been many references to the legal systems of the countries on the ground. It is true that SDG 16 advocates a strong Justice. SDG 16 advocates strong structures for every citizen. We in the N-VA are absolutely in favour of this. We need to work on that. But you need to explain to me how a woman is currently protected by that legal system in a legal system where she has to report rape with four male witnesses. Four male witnesses she has to bring to report her rape. Well, it's for those women, it's for those men, it's for those kids, that this initiative is now in place. The Integrity Charter is now officially elevated to the national standard. That's only logical. If we want to promote the capacity of development cooperation, if we want to bring it into line with all the efforts made by the Belgian State, then I think it is only natural that we respect and appreciate that national standard effectively. Then I find it absolutely unacceptable that we should hide behind legal systems that are not defending citizens' rights at all at the moment. In Latin America, ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying that sounds wonderful in Spanish, but the truth is terrible. La justicia es una serpiente que solo pica a los descalzos. Justice is a snake that only bites those who aren't wearing shoes. For those people without shoes, who need development cooperation, for those victims, we want to guarantee legal certainty with a neutral hotline, where they can be accompanied and where they can deal with their sometimes very serious concerns and complaints. It is our job to ensure that volunteers, people working for an organisation in development cooperation, are also made aware of their responsibilities. That is a very nice characterization of right and left today, because we have problems that we can name and address. So yes, to see a problem, to name it, to tackle it and to act decisively and righteously. That's what this law means. Shall we be rigorous? I hear you refer to an organization with an employee who is a bit off the line. Of course we will not be rigorous. Of course, we will be able to take measures in proportion to the Minister. The text states, I quote: 'Absolvements of the obligations of the integrity charter give the Belgian Official Journal the right, depending on the seriousness of the infringement, to proceed with the immediate or partial suspension of all or part of the payment of the grant and the automatic or partial termination of all or part of the commitments contained in the programmes, projects and contributions'. It's in here. I therefore do not understand why this accusation should be made. We're not going to declare anyone outlaw. With this text no one is constrained in work force. No one is limited in projects and statements. We're definitely going to protect any victims. We are going to ensure that an organisation has to or can take its responsibility when someone in that organisation puts unacceptable actions against others. You mentioned the internal report. This bill also makes the progress report truly binding. This can be used to prove the proper functioning of an organisation. It's like a tool that organizations can refer to. This isn't a bully law. This is a law that must ensure that everything is done correctly and that victims are effectively protected. I am very glad to be able to present this text. I think he died four times, and CPR just as often. That's very difficult in real life. But it is because we have continued to work in committee and a number of colleagues have worked very constructively. I am very pleased with the result and I would also like to thank the Minister's cabinet, because they too have made a very nice contribution to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u153	Mr President, as Mrs Depoorter has asked me very directly, I will speak quickly since I have already made myself clear. Ms. Depoorter began sarcastically by saying that I was comparing theft with sexual abuse. But that's not what I did. I think we are all able to distinguish between the two acts - there is no doubt about that. I have only come out of this case to show that the responsibility of a structure was confused with that of an individual who must be punished for his criminal behaviour. There is no doubt that an abuser must be identified, prosecuted and punished. I simply noted the confusion in your text between the levels of responsibility. On the other hand, you have mocked the progressive left a lot, which has not supported you. I do not think we have spoken sarcasm during the debate on your text. On the contrary, I think I have always shown respect for the N-VA's introduction of the bill. We have been regular and constructive in the exchanges. We wanted to point out that your bill was not effective. Mr. De Croo, who just arrived at that time...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u154	No, let's not start the debate again!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u155	Mr. Speaker, look, it's still a bill, and I'm the only one who comes in. I therefore believe that I should like to honour Mrs Depoorter by speaking. The system put in place by the sector has the merit of existing and must first be evaluated before any precipitation. To freeze it in a law would probably make it less relevant, less flexible and, above all, less attentive to the victims – who are our first concern. We therefore simply regret that this initiative does not reflect the needs of the sector and the victims. We don't have to blush and let's just stand there for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u156	That's a good idea, ma'am! Madame Depoorter, vous concluez?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u157	You reassure me that you do not equate theft and sexual abuse. I hope, however, that not too many victims have looked. They will not be reassured. Mr President, following your observation that the N-VA is coming forward with a constructive proposal on development cooperation, I will give you one thing. There are no bad N-VAs. We're all good people with good breasts. We very much want to work on a correct world, but we want to work on a world in which we also name and address the problems and in which we do not hide behind so-called ideological games.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u158	Mr. Troosters is down. Mr. Dallemagne's not here. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u159	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (647/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (647/11) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation and establishing the existing Charter of Integrity in the field of development cooperation as a national reference for the policy of integrity". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation and raising the existing integrity charter on development cooperation to national standards for integrity policy'. The bill has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u160	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u161	Mr President, we had a Conference of Presidents earlier, where a point arrived like a hair in the soup. In addition, I personally acknowledge that I have not been well informed. This was an amendment by Mr Franken on agenda item 15 on a proposal tabled by Mr Vandenput with reference No 1347. The request was to refer the amendment back to committee in such a way that it could be discussed and decided and the item could return to the agenda in plenary. I had misunderstood the information and was the only one not to reach consensus. I'm going back to that choice. I have taken the trouble of going around the group leaders in session and it does not cause any difficulty to refer him back to committee. What procedural act do you want, as soon as a consensus is reached to refer it back to committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip052x.u162	I assume, Mr Franken, that you are not going to oppose the referral to committee. If no one objects, I propose that the committee meet immediately, all the more so since I must, for technical reasons, interrupt the work for ten minutes. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 15, 2020 at 8:14 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 July 2020 at 8.14 p.m.
