ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, as chairman, I am only the replacement of the President's replacement. I have to leave at 3:15 p.m. In the meantime, however, replacements have already been provided for. A member who has one of the last questions will take over from me. At the same time as this committee meeting, there is also a plenary sitting, with all the unpredictableities attached to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u2	Minister, this is not the first time I've asked you about the collaborative economy. I recently warned you about some abuses against the workers on these platforms. Indeed, hiding behind a role of intermediary, these platforms actually impose a real subordination on workers who are often forced to work under the status of self-employed. However, two years ago, the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations considered that the working arrangements proposed by Deliveroo were "incompatible with a qualification of self-employment". Since then, the platforms have been playing with all the procedures to avoid taking on their responsibilities. Minister, the lines are moving everywhere. At the end of December 2019, the Brussels Labour Auditorate accused Deliveroo of not declaring its couriers as employees, and therefore of having avoided paying employees' salaries and social contributions. In March 2020, the French Court of Cassation ruled: Uber's drivers are not self-employed but wage-earners. In addition to this false entrepreneurship, the platforms give us a sad reality with sometimes disastrous consequences. Workers are rarely warned that they have to bear the costs of their activities alone and that they have to contribute themselves for their pensions, leave and social protection. In Belgium, your government had set up a kind of third status for platforms at the expense of workers who were deprived of any protection. We welcome the fact that since the date of submission of this issue, the Constitutional Court has overturned the Casual Labour Act, which we considered inadequate and totally discriminatory. Nevertheless, this law remains valid until the end of the year, thus keeping these workers in a difficult situation for several months to come. Will you take an initiative to clarify the situation and allow workers in the platform economy to obtain the status of employees? Are you going to put in place measures to combat false self-employed people? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u3	Mrs Thémont, in a judgment delivered on 23 April 2020, the Constitutional Court annulled the law which establishes a favourable tax and parafiscal regime relating to associative work, occasional services between citizens and services of the collaborative economy provided through an approved platform. Since 1 January 2018, these three types of activities allowed, subject to certain conditions, to benefit from additional income exempt from tax and social security charges below a certain threshold. Nevertheless, the Court maintains the effects of this regulation to the benefits made up to the end of the year. This favourable regime should therefore apply until 31 December 2020, including for providers who started their activities as associations, occasional services or collaborative economy in 2020. The purpose of the cancelled regulation is not to determine whether, for example, in the context of a work carried out through a collaborative platform, the employment relationship must be described as independent or as an employee. As I have just explained, this regulation only introduced a favourable tax and social security system for the three categories mentioned. Regardless of the sector to which the worker belongs, including workers on collaborative platforms of the Uber or Deliveroo type, the question of whether an employment relationship is carried out on the basis of an employment contract or on the basis of an enterprise contract is assessed in Belgium on the basis of the criteria of the programme law of 26 December 2006, also known as the Labour Relations Act. This law has not been annulled. Taking into account the criteria of this Act on the employment relationship, it is determined in practice whether a person carries on his or her professional activity as an independent person or as an employed person. Depending on their status as self-employed or as employees, each worker shall be entitled to the social protection resulting therefrom.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u4	Minister, thank you for this complete answer. It is true that the quality of employment in our country is deteriorating: flexijobs, unwanted part-time jobs, piece-work jobs, as is the case with Uber or Deliveroo. These precarious jobs are not only invivable for workers but also put pressure on quality jobs that are likely to deteriorate. We are facing social dumping in Belgium. The crisis we are experiencing today must make us aware of the importance of giving every citizen a decent quality of life. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u5	As Mr Hedebouw is absent, you have the floor again, Mrs Thémont.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Compass Group's food chain is active in the food sector with almost 2,800 workers in Belgium. The company recently announced the establishment of a comprehensive restructuring plan. I hear the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic have been disastrous for the sector. I am thinking in particular of the restaurants that have been closed for months, the cancelled events, the distance courses, the general telework. All this has had a major impact on the Compass Group's turnover, which has recorded a decrease in its activities of around 25%. Management has thus announced that it will have to separate 550 workers. 550 families will be affected. To frame this broad restructuring plan, the Renault procedure has been initiated within the company. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, I am surprised that such a decision has been made at this time. In my view, this restructuring ignores the government's ability to minimize the impact of the crisis on the medium and long term. This multinational takes advantage of the current crisis climate to pass on a rather violent restructuring plan. The crisis and turnover are just pretexts. My question has been tabled, it is true, some time ago. For the past month, I have not received any further information on this restructuring. I would therefore like to know what is happening now. Have there been any redundancies? Was the decision to separate 550 workers really justified, given the current economic recovery? Do you intend to release funds or extend certain aids in order to avoid the tragedy of collective redundancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u7	Mr President, here I have an answer combined with the answer to Mr Hedebouw's question concerning GSK. However, I will only answer Mrs Thémont's question. Ms. Thémont, the announcement of the intention to proceed with collective redundancies at Compass Group Belgilux took place at an extraordinary meeting of the works council on June 4, 2020. On the same day, the announcement of collective redundancies was also notified to my administration. The company wishes to eliminate 550 jobs. With regard to collective redundancies, the information and consultation phase between the unions and the employer was initiated at the works council within the framework of the Renault law. We hope that during this procedure the number of redundancies will decrease. The conciliator of my administration has not yet intervened actively, but he remains at the disposal of the parties if they so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. I understand that this is a collective dismissal. Here we are talking about 550 posts. Of course, we will have to be careful. I would have liked more information, but I hear that this is not possible at this stage. I shall allow myself, if necessary, to return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Kitir is in the debate in plenary. She wondered if her questions could be postponed for a while. She will then come here after the first debate to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u10	Other members are also waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u11	Mr President, it is difficult for her to get in half.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u12	Mr President, I understand the question, which is difficult for me. I've been sitting here for half an hour, and I haven't been asked that question in advance. I would therefore prefer to ask my question now. Mrs Willaert is also present. Moreover, the debate will not be exhausted. We shall continue to debate the matter. I'd have known better half an hour ago. I am sitting here waiting for that specific question and did not know that it would be the intention to postpone it. I'd like to ask them now. The question has also been postponed once.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u13	Yes, she's already been postponed once.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u14	Mr President, it is not a setback. As soon as the debate in plenary is over, Mrs Kitir will be here immediately. It's definitely not a setup.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u15	As she has no other questions on the agenda today, I understand her question. Mrs Lanjri, I also understand your question because you have no other questions on the list today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u16	Mr President, I have two questions on the agenda. I still have question No. 55007881C are on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u17	Mr President, it would be good if we were to continue. As announced, I have to go to the government at 4:00 p.m. I'm really here to answer full force. Mrs Vanrobaeys, I would also like to give my answer to Mrs Kitir, but the parliamentary process has to wait for the answer. Advice has been requested. I've got numbers I'll give you. In that sense, there is little news value.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u18	Mr President, I do propose that I put the question briefly. I know that Mrs Kitir would have liked to ask this question, as the Minister says. I assume that the Minister will certainly take into account Mrs Kitir's question in her reply, which is more or less similar. Madam Minister, in the previous legislature, several decisions were taken in connection with mysterycalls. First of all, I had tabled a resolution with colleagues from Open Vld and N-VA on discrimination in the labour market. Afterwards, on 15 January 2018, the Peters Act was published, creating a legal framework for the mysterycalls, allowing for practical tests on the work floor. The social inspection is subject to three conditions for the deployment of mysterycalls. There must be objective evidence of discrimination, such as a complaint, a signal or a warning. Those objective indications should be supported by data mining or data matching results. Social inspectors should also be given prior authorisation by the employment inspector or the public prosecutor. In adopting that law, which has been debated for a long time, I indicated that the conditions may be too difficult. I also tabled an amendment at the time, the amendment was accepted, to provide for an evaluation in the legislative text itself. This will enable an assessment to be made of the difficulties encountered. The law has been in force for some time now, but the results on the ground are far less than we expected. Madam Secretary, how many mystery calls were executed? Has the evaluation already been completed, provided for in the law, and are the results delivered to us? In the context of work in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have already asked for the results of this evaluation. Do you already have a look at the possible thresholds for the execution of mysterycalls? What adjustments do you think should be made to make mysterycalls more effective? An initial explanation of Mrs Kitir's bill has already been given in committee. Even I have also tabled a bill to remove some existing thresholds. The results of the evaluation can help us to discuss both proposals in committee in September, possibly supplemented by further proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 December 2018, COL 15/2013 of the College of Attorney General entered into force. In 2019 mystery calls were performed in two files and this year there are five files in the pipeline. Because of the corona crisis they are currently on hold because there were fewer job vacancies and job application procedures. We therefore thought it appropriate to postpone the tests, which focused mainly on recruitment, until everything got back on track. The Labour Inspectorate made an important effort in the field of training in 2019 and 2020. All inspectors on site are required to follow the online eDiv training of Unia. In this way, they should be more aware of discrimination if they encounter them on the ground. They should then contact the inspectors from their region who have followed a thorough training course. [[That's 45 right now.]] Of those 45 there are 26 who followed a specific training in the mysterycalls methodology. In 2018, 45 files were handled by the Labour Inspectorate which directly covered anti-discrimination legislation. In 2019 there were 49 and in 2020 9. This resulted in 23 infringements for employers: 13 in 2019, 9 in 2019 and 1 in 2020. The consequences of these 23 infringements were 13 warnings for 9 employees, 5 regularisations for 28 employees and 5 minutes for 11 employees. Subdivided per calendar year, there were 8 warnings, 4 regularisations and 1 minutes in 2018, 4 warnings, 1 regularisation and 4 minutes and a provisional 1 warning in 2020. A total of 10 complaints were submitted which could form the basis for a file. The consequences of this report on criminal sanctions or administrative fines are not known to the Labour Inspectorate. It has also drawn up an administrative report in a number of dossiers. Such a report shall be drawn up when the analysis of the inspection does not reveal sufficient elements to prove that there is a criminal offence. It concerns mainly difficulties with regard to evidence of intent. The report contains a summary of the information collected by the Labour Inspectorate during the various procedures, of course only with regard to anti-discrimination legislation. This information can be collected through an on-the-spot visit, an interrogation of the person concerned or witnesses, the collection of documents, etc. The information provided in the report may be useful in the context of a civil procedure which may be initiated by the employee, Unia or the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, or in the context of a negotiated solution such as the payment of the standard fee of three months' pay. To date, only the databases available to the social inspectors have been used. The techniques were provided by the dataminers of the RSZ. In concrete terms, the data of the DmfA are checked against the data at sector level. Applications have so far been submitted to the Labour Auditor in four files. In two cases the consent was obtained. It concerns a file on origin and a file on gender. Those responsible for combating discrimination in the Labour Inspectorate are currently analysing the issues raised by the mystery calls, also at the request of this committee. Indeed, Article 35 of the Law laying down various provisions on work stipulates that a year after its entry into force there should be an evaluation submitted to the Chamber of Representatives with a view to a possible revision of the law. Because the actual start-up of the inspection only took place in March 2019, after the agreement on the approval of the labour inspector, a little over a year of experience has now been built up. We believe that the next government should put this issue further on the agenda and, following an evaluation of the issues raised, should continue to work. You know better than I do that there is a bill pending in the committee for which advice has been requested from the Social Inspectorate and the Data Protection Authority. I believe that there is certainly a possibility for further improvement and refinement of legislation. I would therefore like to make a positive contribution to the work of Parliament in order to move forward and, on the basis of the opinions, to bring about more refined and better legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u20	Madam Minister, the figures confirm that there are still too many thresholds for the use of the law. I'm glad to hear you say you're open to a meeting to refine the law. It is a well-known debate that has been held several times in this committee. You say it's food for the new government. In the meantime, you know that the government negotiations are going on for a year and a half. Fortunately, Parliament is not sitting still. I look forward to the coming opinions on the proposal that we have tabled and for which we have been given the urgency. We will certainly restart the debates in September and include the information you have provided today on our questions in the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u21	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you wish to continue and continue the work that has been initiated by your predecessor, Mr Peeters. The fight against discrimination is a battle that we must all fight by all means. We must not let any talent be lost. It is therefore a good thing that this evaluation is finally being carried out. You say she has been effectively delayed, for which I understand. We can also see that the number of files was rather limited, for which we feared, especially when we see how many files have ended up having a judicial follow-up through the labour inspector. There have been about 45 files a year in the beginning, but there really is a bottleneck and we need to take away those bottlenecks. Since there is no government and even apart from that, this should be followed up in Parliament. Mrs Kitir had a proposal prepared, and I myself tabled a legislative proposal on this. I hope that we can work together for this, in Parliament, but also with the government and with you to refine that legislation. I'm sure you'll be willing to cooperate. You have also indicated that you are prepared to remove those thresholds, for which you are grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u22	Mr President, Minister, we have received many figures from you, for which I thank you. We'll take a closer look at it. I understand that since the last time I questioned you about the mystery calls, not much has happened. It's all very well for that. You've outlined how that happened. Of course, we all know that. I have said many times, and Mr Lanjri has just put it nicely, that we will have to review that bottleneck, which is a result of the cumulative condition. Mr Lanjri's bill also proposes this. We will also have to look at the criteria of civil law, in order, for example, to be able to do mysterycalls for age, because for that these mysterycalls are not possible. The only thing I didn't get right has more to do with the M.O. Can we expect another paper report from the evaluation or is that evaluation in what you have just given us? I think it might be very interesting to be able to look at a document within the framework of the legislative proposal that is now being discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u23	It seems to us very difficult to do so on the basis of four dossiers. I think it is too early to draw up a report that has added value to the discussion. You know very well what the pain points are. I am at my disposal to cooperate with Parliament. The figures themselves show that there is something wrong with the procedure and that there are too many locks. Those figures alone are sufficient to enable us to get to work on them. Let Parliament do its job and hold the debate on the basis of the opinions of the Data Authority and the FOD WASO. I suspect that they will include some of the aspects raised here in their opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u24	Madam Minister, a survey of the HR company Randstad with 1,500 students shows that in 2019 1 out of 5 students without a contract worked for student labour. More importantly, the same survey shows that 31 percent of 15-18 year olds indicate without working a contract. However, the provisions of the Labour Agreements Act relating to the Student Agreement aim to provide the student, who has no experience in the labour market, with maximum information so that he can carry out his work with knowledge. The main aim of these provisions is to provide additional protection for the student who comes into contact with the labour market for the first time and occasionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u25	Ms Vanrobaeys, the checks on the registration and declaration of students at the RSZ are carried out by several inspection services, including the Labour Inspectorate, the Monitoring of Social Laws of the FOD WASO and the RSZ inspection. The figures I can give you are therefore partial. These inspection services usually carry out checks on student labour in the context of larger actions against undeclared work. It will then be done on the basis of marked sectors. In 2019 1,203 working students were checked, including 86 minors. 258 infringements were detected, with 41 minutes for 88 employees. This means that for about 1 out of 13 students a serious infringement was detected. I realise that these are high figures, but one must see them in very targeted controls, which have been carried out in sectors where there was already a suspicion of undeclared work. This should therefore not be extrapolated to the entire student population. However, they are an indication to me, I must admit. Students can check their own student days balance, you know, in the RSZ application student@work. Employers can also check and follow up on this. This does not alter the fact that student work requires a written contract. The TSW inspection service receives very few complaints from students. This is usually about not paying or not paying enough wages or overtime. In 2018 a total of 13 and in 2019 17 specific student files were dealt with. This year, TSW has not planned any specific actions in the context of student work, but on my question and on the basis of the figures I have just quoted, the social inspectors will be asked to pay particular attention to student work in the coming months in the context of regular checks. This is also going to give us more clarity in terms of figures for regular checks, in order to be able to better understand what the problem is in the context of abuse, which there would be in the context of student labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You're confirming Randstad's figures. Of course, they are sectoral and they are sectors that are susceptible to fraud. You say that there are no specific prevention actions this year due to the corona crisis, but fortunately there is the attention of the inspection services. I am very pleased with this, because first contact with the labour market is important for students. That is precisely why they have this protective status. We must continue to pay attention to this. All measures via the web application are very simple and flexible to comply with. I really don't know why they would still work in black as a student. Moreover, for the past period there was also the neutralization of the number of hours. For me, therefore, there can be targeted checks. If students come into contact with the labour market for the first time, they can do so in a protected statute, they are paid decently and the working time rules and all labour laws are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u27	Mrs Willaert, the RVA is fully aware that a clear and non-formal language is important in its communication with the citizen. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the very complex regulation can often not be clarified in simple terms. You are also very well aware of concepts such as degressivity and occupational integration. For some time now the Rijksdienst has been organising online training courses in readability for its employees. This resulted in 2018 in a style guide with various tips on writing an e-mail and a letter in response to a customer's question. Templates with a simple language for correspondence with citizens were also developed. The RVA has also established a service Readability within the Regulatory Board to reformulate the content of the letters and to check for comprehensibility. The service will provide simplified and correct documents to the offices of the RVA for daily use. Since 2006, the RVA has employed an experienced expert in poverty issues. One of his tasks is to develop awareness actions to identify poverty among customers and to make proposals to improve the legibility of documents. In 2018, more than 400 training sessions were given to more than 2,700 staff to communicate with citizens in an easily accessible and uniform manner and with people staying in precarious situations. A Wabbief test can certainly help the RVA to clarify the forms and letters more clearly. I also briefed the RVA on this, in order to make sure that this possibility is used and to include it in a new Department of Rules of Procedure, which will be set up within the Regulatory Board in 2020. May I also point out that the RVA is strictly bound by the GDPR regulation in its communication with citizens? The RVA shall use in written procedures as laid down in the legislation. It happens that the citizen asks questions about his file by e-mail or by phone. The RVA shall not communicate private data via email or telephone and shall transmit its reply both in writing and electronically via the eBox. The eBox is the digital mailbox in which social security institutions post their correspondence with citizens. The RVA is very committed to the use of the eBox. He was even a pioneer in the use of it in 2012. The problem, of course, is that not all citizens use the eBox. I know that there are also some social thresholds in the use of such instruments. The RVA shall also make available an electronic application for all written procedures. For example, over half of the applications for career breaks have been online in recent months. So, Mrs Willaert, you will notice that efforts are being made. We'll keep going. However, I realise that we still have to work on the readability, which is also the intention of the RVA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u28	Madam Minister, I would like to thank the people of the RVA for the tons of work they have done in these unseen times over the last few months. It's nice to hear that a lot has happened. I would also like to thank you for your commitment to make the Wabelube test more visible to the RVA. I know that it is very difficult, and I myself have that experience at the Ghent OCMW when we try often to make very legal matters understandable and at the same time correct to the citizen, but I see that a lot has already happened and that a lot is still on the table. As you say, it is a work in progress, but especially the continued attention for it is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u29	Mrs Willaert, agreements and arrangements on a syndicated premium are being negotiated in the private sector and this is laid down by the social partners at sectoral level. Administration and funding are usually collectively regulated through a sectoral fund, managed autonomously by these social partners. The government only organizes the tax and parafiscal exemption up to a maximum amount, just as employers can tax their membership of an employers' organisation. As a government, we are therefore not involved in the administrative process of paying the syndicated premium in the private sector. In fact, there are also considerable differences in administrative handling. For example, there is an automatic grant of a premium in certain sectors, such as hotels and restaurants. In other sectors, pen and paper are indeed more important and local trade union representatives still play a role as courier. In others, this is done by e-mail, for example in education. Of course, we are in favour of simple procedures. In certain sectors an adjustment of the procedures would not be possible in the short term, it may also be considered to adjust the date of submission. The initiative therefore lies mainly with the social partners. In the framework of collective agreements, we have already taken important steps forward, so I am certainly in favour of every step forward in digitisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u30	Thank you for your reply, Minister, that was clear. For the public sector, I will put a question to another minister, because I understand that further steps can be taken there too. We have that in hand, but of course you have no message.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u31	Dear colleague, the SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale has not received any announcement of collective dismissal from ArcelorMittal. According to our information, at the works council of 18 June 2020, ArcelorMittal Belgium, Liège site, announced its decision to devote the Marchin site to the production of specific products. With the production of these steels requiring fewer personnel, the company made a commitment to reclassify workers who had become surplus at its other sites. In this regard, working meetings were held with trade union organizations on 24 and 30 June. Of course, the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation remains available to accompany this reorganization and the successful case, with social mediation if necessary. For the time being, we have not received a termination announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you. This announcement was well made to the workers and transcribed in the press. I must admit that this decision seems rather cynical to me since, for five years, ArcelorMittal received aid, in particular from the Walloon Region. The company was therefore prevented from announcing any dismissal. Now that these five years have passed, ArcelorMittal seems to want to cut down on the Marchin site. I think this attitude is rather deplorable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u33	Mrs Houtmeyers has her question No. 55007341C withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u34	The issue was raised yesterday in the COOVID-19 Committee. Consultations were held between the Ministers for Employment, Social Affairs and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Group of Ten on 7 July. The proposals of the Group of Ten were explained there. My fellow ministers and I have explained the decisions to extend measures in the context of the COVID-19 crisis. These include temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure, temporary unemployment for economic reasons 2.0 and accompanying measures such as the freezing, degressivity and the neutralisation of the period of benefits. Those measures were extended by the Royal Decree No. 37, No. 45 and No. 46 which we discussed yesterday, and the two KBs on unemployment. The government will not come back to that. It was agreed at the meeting that a technical working group would examine on 8 July the criterion to be applied to sectors and businesses in order to qualify for the extension of the temporary unemployment regime until the end of this year. An agreement was reached at that meeting to extend the temporary unemployment corona until the end of this year for those sectors which are required by a decision of the National Security Council to limit their activities, and for companies which can demonstrate 20% of temporary unemployment on the total number of days indicated before the second quarter of 2020. These criteria are included in the Royal Decree, which is currently before the King for signature. The Group of Ten will, through the NAR, draw up another proposal on the cost of equalizing the days of temporary unemployment force majeure for annual leave. The government will then examine the opinion. With regard to the proposal to provide two days of training in the application of temporary unemployment for economic reasons as from 1 September, it was agreed that the offer made by the regional employment services for the temporary unemployed would be eligible for the two-day training. To this end, I have written to my colleagues, the Ministers for Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We were talking about it yesterday. There was indeed a partial response from the Government to the Group of Ten that temporary unemployment could be extended until 31 December for firms hard hit which have to place 20% of their workforce in temporary unemployment. But there was also the question of the neutralization of the degressivity and the periods of the benefit. The extension of the regime for the reference periods for artists until the end of this year was approved in plenary last week. This is not the case for the other periods. Why has the government abandoned the balance found in the proposal of the Group of Ten, while so many restructurings will lead to a wave of redundancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u36	I'm not talking about balance yet. I have just said that we have sought a solution for the extension of temporary unemployment at company level, because a sectoral scheme was not a good solution. The equivalence of holiday days is currently on the table of the NAR. The Group of Ten will continue to work out the arrangements. The extension of the degressivity is linked to this. The NAR is working on a balanced exercise and takes time to do so. Then we'll see how we can get the results back to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 55007417C by Mrs Leroy was referred to the Committee on Health and was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55007428C by Mrs Leroy will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u38	The new scenario to which you refer, which would apply in secondary education from next school year, was agreed between the Flemish Minister of Education and the various education frameworks. The federal government was not consulted or informed about this, and therefore no policy could be pursued as a function of this scenario. In the case of any increase in the age conditions, for example up to 18 years, I believe that this should be done within the framework of the ordinary parental leave scheme. The Corona Parental Leave scheme is a temporary and additional balance in the context of the fight against COVID-19. It was implemented in the form of a power of attorney decision, during the period in which we had powers of attorney. Apart from that, I believe that the problems you raise should be framed in a broader context. At the moment children are also at home on Wednesday afternoons, working parents seek solutions, without any specific leave today from 12 years old. In addition, teleworking can also provide relief in cases where this is possible. Finally, the increase in age conditions in the context of time-credit is a decision to be taken initially by the authors of this scheme, which is the social partners. They are, of course, free to discuss this in the NAR's lap.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u39	I asked that question because I do think that the context is still special and that this requires special measures. Some parents have already taken their holidays at the start of the lockdown, take parental leave to bridge the holiday or try to put different systems together to provide care for the children. In the meantime, two camps have been closed because of a corona contamination. It's not all cake and cake. One can suddenly face children who have to be cared for at home. I regret that there has been no consultation on this, that there has been a regulation on education, in which children are still at home one day a week. Given the specific situation in which parents have already combined different leave schemes and that some are therefore a little short of cash, it is desirable to provide special solutions. For example, the specific parental leave scheme can be extended until December or until as long as it is necessary or other measures can be taken within the ordinary schemes allowing parents to take care of their children. For example, when it comes to teenagers aged 14 or 15 who have to work at home, I can imagine that a little support from parents is needed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament 55007555 by Mrs Hanus will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u41	The end-of-year and other annual premiums are not regulated by law, but are usually awarded by a collective agreement at sector level. Any changes to the implementing rules can thus also be determined at sectoral level. No legislation is foreseen to deal with this at intersectoral level. A number of sectors already provided for the assimilation of periods of temporary unemployment before the crisis of coronavirus for the payment of the end-of-year premium. In addition, there are currently eight joint committees which, in response to the coronavirus crisis, have concluded a specific collective agreement to assimilate periods of temporary unemployment resulting from coronavirus to periods worked. The annual premium in the Joint Committee 322.01 has been granted by the sector since 2016 through an autonomously negotiated collective agreement. The amount of the end-of-year bonus shall be increased to 4,5 % of the gross remuneration paid to the employee on an annual basis during the reference period starting on 1 July of the preceding calendar year and ending on 30 June of the current calendar year. The premium shall be granted during the month of December in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Board of Directors of the Fund. No collective labour agreement has been concluded within the Joint Committee to equate the period of temporary unemployment due to coronavirus with temporary unemployment for economic reasons or actual benefit days. Since the negotiations on wage conditions, which include the end-of-year premium, are part of the autonomous powers of the social partners, it is not appropriate that I should intervene, especially since this is really about sectoral end-of-year premiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. We know that domestic workers are already experiencing difficulties. For many households, this premium is necessary and I find that the situation is not very fair. I understand that this has to be regulated by sector level, but domestic workers are not responsible for this crisis. They have already been penalized and should not be penalized even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I can only join Mr Thémont. The housekeepers were already severely affected by the crisis. Most of them are single women who work part-time. If they are put on unemployment for some time, they have already suffered a huge loss of income. Those are amounts that one simply cannot live by in a month. On top of that, they will be punished at the end of the year by losing again on their year-end premium. We can only call on employers and industry to think carefully about this, especially when they want to keep the profession attractive. I am doing the same thing to my colleagues in the Flemish Parliament, in order to draw particular attention to this in the sector agreement that has been concluded, so that the household helpers will have a good year to come. Last year I was busy with their raises of 1.1 %, which is not much on their wages. This year, I hope, at least with their wage increase and their end-of-year bonus, they will be able to benefit from their end-of-year period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u44	Mrs Moscufo is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u45	Madam Minister, the Planning Office warns of a surge in unemployment in our country, with a peak of 11.5 % next year. It also predicts that it will take at least five years before that unemployment rate falls back to the pre-corona crisis level. Unemployment would not peak this year, but only next year. According to the Planning Bureau, this is due, among other things, to the high level of temporary unemployment which is slowing down the number of job losses today, but whose impact will be worked out next year. Then anyone who makes goods and services traded through the market will be affected by the economic crisis. This will inevitably result in the removal of jobs and the loss of self-employment. The Planning Bureau also indicates that the level of activity in the private sector in our country would not reach the precorona level again until 2025. That's a long time. We also see this in Flemish exports, which are under very strong pressure today. Mr. Secretary, I have the following questions for you. What conclusions do you draw from the Plan Bureau's analysis? What structural measures do you think can be taken to keep that peak of unemployment as low as possible and to keep the recovery period as short as possible thereafter? Are you critical of the measures taken? In what way do you think that they will unwittingly contribute to the increase in the number of unemployed in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u46	Mr Anseuw, there will also be elements in my answer that answer Mrs Moscufo's questions. Although the Planning Bureau indicates that the analysis is still surrounded by great uncertainty, it is in line with what other Belgian and international institutions set up. I share the conclusions that 2020 and 2021 are likely to be particularly difficult for the labour market, with perhaps a significant increase in unemployment. It is true that the sanitary measures did not have an immediate effect on unemployment from March 2020. The number of ordinary unemployed, benefit recipients and full-time job seekers registered by the RVA decreased by March 2020 by February 2020 and slightly increased by April 2020. Unemployment also decreased in the Statbel data from a labour force survey in March and April 2020. From May 2020 onwards, the payment data of the RVA show an impact on unemployment. Please note that the entry into full unemployment is not limited to persons temporarily unemployed before that period. On the basis of the available data, approximately 4% of the total unemployed of May 2020 was temporarily unemployed during the previous month. This would mean that this group accounts for about a quarter to a third of the increase in total unemployment. We also do not see any increase in the proportion of temporary unemployed in relation to the period before the corona crisis, which flows into full unemployment the following month. The monthly figure is between 1.5% and 2% of the temporary unemployed. Thus, it seems that temporary unemployment still fulfils its buffer function properly. In order to curb the rise in unemployment, a rapid economic revival seems particularly important rather than additional labour market measures, although, of course, the necessary capacity must be guaranteed to accompany the unemployed back to sustainable work as soon as possible. Training and training as a function of sectors with existing or new needs are indicated. Of course, the policy pursued with temporary unemployment and the right to bridge did not encourage the increase in unemployment. On the contrary, in countries without such systems, with the United States as the most prominent example, the rise in unemployment is much more dramatic. However, the impact of the measures will be gradually reduced. Some companies using the measures will eventually have to make redundancies. This will inevitably increase unemployment. It is not true, however, that the policy pursued would have facilitated unemployment. On the contrary, the prospects of the Plan Bureau show the importance of the measures taken. I can only give a positive response to the question of whether the outlook will take account of policy shaping and the adaptation of existing measures. However, I have to say once again that the Planning Bureau also points to great uncertainty. In addition, there is a need to respond rapidly to changed circumstances. For this reason, it is also impossible to estimate the impact of one or more measures in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u47	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I follow you when you say that the best remedy to deal with this problem is to ensure a good, structural, economical relance as soon as possible. The Planning Bureau indicates that it will have a lot of feet in the earth before we can reap the benefits of it. It goes beyond your powers, I understand that, but the question is what we can do to add measures based on the analysis of the Planning Bureau, which may allow the analysis to be adjusted downwards, with a shorter period of time for economic revival and reaping its benefits. I also endorse your analysis that the buffer function of a number of measures does its job effectively, although I will not surprise you with the fact that a number of things need to be evaluated. This will also be the case in September when it comes to temporary unemployment. I can also imagine, for example, that a number of companies that would never have gotten into trouble without corona, which is now and that the support has been forthcoming for them. This also applies to self-employed persons, of course. At the same time, there will be a number of entrepreneurs who will be able to survive thanks to these measures, but which would have long gone without corona and those measures. Therefore, the more targeted use of these measures may also offer a little more relief. As a general consideration, we must pay particular attention to the fact that the level of investment in the economy in our country has fallen down in recent months. As a government, we need to be able to play a role in this over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u48	Mrs Samyn, unfortunately I have little news to report on unemployment benefits for unemployed people from other Member States of the European Union. The dossier is still at the stage of the trialogue, the negotiations between the Member States united in the Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission. There has been little movement in recent months, partly because of the COOVID-19 pandemic, but also partly because of the positions of the various institutions, which have not changed, which makes it difficult to find a compromise. The German EU Presidency has announced that it wants to restart the trilogue. Because there was little movement in the file, very few political contacts have taken place. At technical level, however, the clarification and exchange of positions continued. The Belgian legislation has not changed in this respect and neither has Belgium's position. The revision of Regulation 883 on the coordination of social security systems, which is on the table as a whole, is important to us. In general, we can certainly support it, but the chapter on unemployment must remain balanced, at least in order to retain the possibility of access to unemployment benefits based on working periods in another European Member State only after three months of work in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u49	Madam Minister, I do hope that Belgium will stick to its position and will not support such an agreement, as it now stands, in the final vote, even in the future. The principle that we must first contribute to our social security before we can include social rights in unemployment must be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u50	Mrs Samyn, foreign workers coming to work in Belgium are subject to the same rules as anyone entering Belgium from abroad. This means that one should always check the travel advice of the Foreign Affairs Office which can be consulted on the website. Non-necessary travel outside Europe is currently prohibited, but anyone who comes to Belgium from those areas should at least be quarantined. Within Europe, if you return from a country, region or city marked by Foreign Affairs as a red zone, you will also be obliged to go into quarantine and have a test carried out. The organisation of the quarantine and the test is in the hands of the Communities and the Regions, which are also responsible for the contact detection. At present there is ongoing consultation between the policy cell, the RVA and the FOD WASO on access to temporary unemployment due to force majeure and travel to red, orange and green zones for workers unable to work at home during the mandatory quarantine. The guidelines will be added to the FAQ on the website of the FOD WASO and the RVA as soon as possible. We certainly hope to do this as soon as possible, this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u51	Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u52	Mrs Moscufo is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a question in which I am a direct object. As regards the Flemish incentive premium for corona parental leave, there was no prior consultation with regional employment ministers. It is up to the Regions to take their own decisions in this regard. Each government has its own autonomy, its own powers and its own responsibility. Since the incentive premium is not paid by a federal body, we cannot say how many parents are affected by the Flemish measure. A benefit of 25% higher than that of normal parental leave is provided for corona parental leave. For single parents and parents with a disabled child, this benefit is even 50% higher than for ordinary parental leave for the period July to September. As a result of this federal measure, the gross benefit may amount to 2,100 euros per month. For the first time, a benefit under a career break scheme or thematic leave will be higher than the gross wage. Since the employee cannot be expected to have more income by staying at home, the RVA will also for the first time drop the benefit in certain cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The result is, of course, that parents who have taken corona parental leave without the Flemish premium will have less left. Those who are hit hardest are the people in the healthcare sector. I think that's worth mentioning. I hope that you will be able to reach a compromise with your fellow ministers from the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I regret that this is how it is done. Perhaps there has been too little thought on the Flemish side about the consequences that this could have. However, we have to take into account the fact that parents, and certainly single parents, had a certain income. I have no problem with the RVA shutting it down. There should be no traps either. One still has to earn more by working than by taking parental leave or time credits, but it must be a living income. This has been done, especially in corona times, but it is now being capped, especially for the care staff, while people may have already made a number of decisions and counted on a certain income. I can only call for consultation so that this can be resolved and people can count on the income they thought they would receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u56	Just a technical announcement. At the latest within 15 minutes, there will be a vote in plenary. Let me give that to the colleagues present so that they can vote electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u57	The rules on corona parental leave provide for the employee who has interrupted his career or reduced his work performance, for example in the context of the time-credit collective agreement No. 103 the possibility, with the agreement of his employer, to suspend the time-credit in question with a view to taking corona parental leave. If the time-credit is not suspended for the entire foreseen period with a view to taking coronaparent leave, the time-credit shall be renewed from the day following the end of the coronaparent leave until the original expiry date applied for. In such a situation, therefore, I can confirm that the employee will indeed automatically return to his original requested time-credit after a corona parent's leave. The rules on corona parent leave do not contain any specific provisions governing the exercise of a future time loan, for example a time loan that corresponds to a corona parent's leave. The exercise of a future time loan should therefore in principle be carried out in accordance with and in accordance with normal seniority and employment conditions, as the partners have included in collective agreement No. 103. With regard to the conditions of employment laid down by the same collective agreement, there is no problem if the time loan following the Corona Parental Leave was applied for in writing prior to the admission of the Corona Parental Leave. A possible problem may arise when the relevant time-credit is applied for during corona parental leave. In order to avoid discussion and legal uncertainty on this issue, it would be advisable for the social partners to provide for a clear set of rules in the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u58	It's more of a technical question. I thought the collective agreement had to be adjusted. Maybe we should ask that question. The same thing happened at the time with the crisis-time credit. I ask that question because the context remains special. I said that in a previous question. It may also depend on whether corona parents' leave is extended until the end of December after negotiations with the social partners or not. When that ends at the end of December, parents will look again for different opportunities to receive their children and the time loan will be one of them. I am afraid that would require an adjustment of collective agreement No. 103. It has not been explicitly provided for, although for the rest attempts have been made to regulate all possible transitions in that collective agreement. However, if there is to be a new transition, this needs to be readjusted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u59	Dear colleague, I will devote myself to the employment situation, air traffic falling within the competence of the Minister for Mobility. Currently, the Brussels Airport Company still has a temporary unemployment rate of 60%. This concerns both forms of temporary full-time and part-time unemployment. Of the 1,000 workers, about 600 are still suffering from the consequences of the crisis. Due to cost-effectiveness and the temporary unemployment system, no restructuring or collective redundancies have been carried out so far at the Brussels Airport Company. For the airports of Zaventem and Charleroi, the SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale received in June files of restructuring of two companies linked to the airport - 242 jobs are threatened there. It is only from 2023 and 2024 that Brussels Airport Company expects the number of passengers to be comparable to 2019 figures, since there is no significant second wave of the virus and consumer confidence increases sufficiently. Brussels Airport expects that the level of employment will increase faster than the number of passengers, but that it will still be at 2019 level in 2023 and 2024. Today, Charleroi Airport uses temporary unemployment for 60 per cent of its administrative staff, out of a total of 150, and 40 to 50 per cent of its operational staff, out of a total of around 550. Since 1 July, the airports of Antwerp and Ostend have recovered a normal employment rate thanks to the resumption of activities. The airport in Liège did not have to resort to temporary unemployment because of the exponential growth in freight activities which more than absorbed the loss of passenger flights. After 31 August 2020, airports will continue to be able to rely on an administratively simple and sufficiently flexible temporary unemployment system. As far as Swissport's airport activity is concerned, the bankrupt banker, an employment unit has been set up from the Regions. We will be kept informed of developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u60	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your explanation. Let's cross our fingers and hope that a second wave does not point at the tip of its nose to avoid more serious problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u61	Mrs Lanjri, the minimum age to receive a benefit as a person with disabilities is based on the former age of 21 years of age. This is no longer the case today, of course, and the Constitutional Court therefore considers this to be the case. I would therefore like to amend the law in the short term so that people with disabilities are entitled to benefit from 18 years of age. This means, in practice, that they will get more than they do now. At present, they can only benefit from increased family allowances in the period between 18 and 21 years. In the future, they will be able to claim the higher income replacement allowance from the age of 18 and, where appropriate, integration. If the age criterion for allowances for persons with disabilities is increased to 18 years and the age criterion for the increased child benefit up to 21 years is maintained, there may be overlap between those two benefits. Since the children's money is not taxable, it cannot be regarded as an income within the meaning of the Law of 27 February 1987 and is not taken into account for the grant of an income replacement or integration allowance. With regard to the coordination with the regions, it is true that the coherence that existed for persons with disabilities with the system of increased family allowances no longer falls within the competence of the federal government. Nevertheless, I share your view that it is important for people with disabilities that both benefits are logically aligned and that the right holders are clearly informed. That is why I will certainly organise the necessary consultations with my competent colleagues in the Communities, whom I have already informed of the interim judgment. The reduction in the minimum age to 18 means that an adjustment of the automatic start-up of the application for a disability allowance from 18 years onwards will also have to be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u62	Madam Minister, you have indeed answered my questions. This year my bill was adopted, which automatically examines whether persons with disabilities are entitled to benefit, either an income replacement allowance or an integration meeting. So far, with the minimum age still at 21 years, about 15,000 people are potentially eligible for this, but some of the potential beneficiaries did not apply. With the automatic allocation, hopefully more rightholders will actually receive the concession. Not everyone will be eligible, sometimes they fall out of the boat. Now that the age is reduced, I think it is important that we also fully grasp that group. It is good that you will discuss this with the Communities. Later, when it is necessary to amend the legislation, we will come back to it. It may be possible soon, when there is a government soon, but if it takes too long, we will have to work on it in Parliament. However, I have the impression that it is now hopefully heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 55007871C by Mrs Jadin has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u64	Dear colleague, it is of course up to Ryanair's management to respond to any potential contradictory statements it may have made about the company's situation. The aviation sector is undoubtedly going through a very difficult and uncertain period due to the coronavirus pandemic, resulting in almost constant adjustments and changes in management and strategy. In the meantime, my services have been informed of Ryanair's intention to proceed with collective redundancies. In its letter, the company states that workers' representatives will be informed and consulted in the coming weeks, in accordance with the legal provisions. As is the case with other airlines, the matter is closely monitored by the relevant Joint Committee and its Chairman. Instruments of conciliation or mediation are available if necessary. As regards your second question, the National Employment Office (ONEM) contacted Partena, the social secretariat of Ryanair. We now know precisely how many hours a day should be indicated in Scenario 5 of the DRS form so that employees can receive normal compensation as temporary unemployed. Ryanair would have agreed that Partena would implement Scenario 5 of the DRS as such and that it would amend the statements made for the previous months. I am pleased that we have finally been able to find a solution after several weeks of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u65	I am obviously pleased to learn that a solution has been found for these workers from TUI, Brussels Airlines, Swissport and, today, Ryanair. We only hear about layoffs, whether individual or collective. I would like to make it clear that last May Ryanair presented to its shareholders a series of statistics which attested to its financial health. Therefore, I believe that we must keep an eye on the development of the situation, which certainly cannot be done at the expense of the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u66	Dear colleague, it is not excluded that new measures with an economic impact must be taken during the summer or autumn. These measures are likely to affect not the economy as a whole but a particular area or sector and their impact will be more limited. Moreover, companies are now better prepared, for example with telework. When this cannot be done, it will again be possible to use the measures introduced at the beginning of the crisis, such as temporary unemployment. Nevertheless, I do not agree with you when you say that mistakes have been made in this regard because the system allowed us to go through the first few weeks of crisis almost without job losses. That there was an impact on the labour market as well as an impact of containment measures on the economic activity of our country and foreign countries was inevitable and I do not see how we could have avoided it! The stimulus measures to be developed by the European Union, the Federal and the Regions will have to respond to them. The same approach will be adopted for limited lockdown measures. In the meantime, the temporary unemployment scheme has been adapted to the new phase in which we find ourselves. Further adjustments will be made in the fall, if necessary. In this way, we try to safeguard as many jobs as possible in the short term in order to put the recovery on as solid a basis as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you. Attention will have to be paid to economic recovery and the use of temporary unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote in plenary is under way. The first was Mr Laaouej's motion and the second was Mr Leysen's motion. I would ask Members to turn their questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u69	Madam President, we can certainly do that, because it is different until after the recess. I've got all the answers. If you give the message to put the questions in written questions, we can all email Members tomorrow and we can start with a clean sheet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u70	Minister, I agree to turn my question into a written question. Could I have the answer quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u71	You'll get it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u72	I informed the secretariat half an hour ago that my questions which have not yet been dealt with may be converted into written questions. That seems to me to be the best way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u73	Madam President, tomorrow we will forward all the answers to the remaining questions to the Members. If the answer is not satisfactory or if one wants to come back to a question, one can do so in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic245x.u74	That is a very good proposal, Madam Secretary.
