ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u1	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we hear every day from many SMEs in various sectors in this country crying out about the future of their businesses. As you know, Mr De Croo, I have already drawn attention to the strengthening of own funds in an earlier interplay. We must look at how we can get private capital to the companies. Today, 280 billion euros are parked in Belgian savings accounts. I have noticed, and I am sure you have, that the Flemish Government has already taken a number of measures to further mobilise this savings in favour of companies. We are talking about a EUR 500 million boost, but, as you know, the powers in Flanders are still too limited to give some tax incentives to further roll out such actions. That is why we wonder to what extent it is possible to mobilise the EUR 200 billion on the Belgian savings accounts in the form of private investment funds with which we can help ailing companies through equity participations. We want to link this with the banks, because there are investment funds in several banks that have the necessary experience in this area. It should be possible to set up specific equity funds and transfer tax-friendly private funds to those funds so that companies can use these equity funds. In addition to the measures taken by Flanders, I believe that a number of other initiatives can be launched in parallel, so that we can go much further. After all, it has not been a secret for a long time what will bring about the coming months and years, especially now that the economic crisis is beginning. Remember, Flemish Interest was the very first party in this Parliament to put a question about the economic crisis caused by corona. If I am not mistaken, it was in January or February 2020 that we warned against an economic crisis. Your colleague, Mr Muylle, said not to say the word'recession' in particular. That would scare people. But today we see that more and more jobs are under threat and many companies are in danger of going bankrupt in the coming months, despite a lot of measures taken by this government and which we have also supported. As far as we are concerned, it is only temporary measures, temporary impulses, and it is high time to look further than just today and next week, so to speak. Companies will continue to have difficulties in the coming months and years. In an earlier statement, you also mentioned the turn that will have to be taken to get out of the crisis and how we should look at it in the coming months. I believe that we should be working on this today, actually yesterday, Minister. Hence the interplay. After all, I was wondering what you had done with the government in the meantime to encourage any deposits into private investment funds by the classic saver to dwindle as much as possible the economic malaise that will result from COOVID-19. What other way did you and the government intend to use savings to strengthen own funds, which is ultimately a matter of ensuring the survival of businesses and SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u2	There are two elements that we need to deal with separately. Firstly, you say that companies have difficulties in terms of liquidity, but also in terms of solvency. That's correct. We see that the equity of many companies is weakening. That's dangerous. After all, that can have a domino effect. I will also comment on the measures we have already taken and what is still planned. Your second point is to mobilise savings. We need to think carefully about how we want to do this. Today, savings for the modal saver are one of the most secure financial instruments in existence. There's a deposit guarantee. Our banks were strongly strengthened after the financial crisis. This is a product that has certain characteristics in terms of risk. Inciting people to switch from a particularly risky product to a very risky product and investing in individual companies today, being the most risky product that can be chosen, is a huge leap. I am not in favour of encouraging people who are not sufficiently financially educated to do so. We are not doing them any favours. How does that happen? It'll be done through intermediaries. Banks are intermediaries. For example, the bank guarantee scheme developed by us is actually a way to support banks in the intermediary function they play, namely to take and lend people's savings. At a time of very high risk, a guarantee scheme is important. I will also be coming out shortly with a draft law, which, on the basis of the new circumstances, will amend the bank guarantee scheme. This is a method of mobilising savings funds and ensuring that they continue to receive sufficient corporate funding. Today it could be thought that they would go mainly to the real estate market, because that market is very stable. You're talking about investment funds. That's correct. Some of those funds exist. One of the measures we have taken in the past ensures that taxpayers have been able to benefit from a tax exemption on dividends from such funds or direct investments since the 2019 tax year. If new funds are created, I am, of course, in favour of that. Today PMV and others are located at regional level in such instruments, such as win-win loans. I know that win-win capital is also on the table of the Flemish Government. So a number of things have happened today. However, should we at federal level give additional tax advantages to people to invest their money in more risky products? I doubt we'll solve it that way. I would nevertheless like to mention a number of elements that we have achieved so far. I talked about the bank guarantee plan. That's one way to mobilise savings. The moratorium has been used very fiercely, because more than 250 000 loans have been requested to be delayed. I also have an agreement with the banking sector to extend that moratorium, which was valid until the end of September 2020, until the end of 2020, which is a good thing. We also discussed two measures in committee yesterday to strengthen the capital position of companies. A first measure is the so-called COVID reserve, a sort of carryback scheme. This measure is now going to plenary and has received the support of your group. The second measure, the reconstruction of capital, has not reached a majority. The absence of an opinion from the Council of State was an important element, I understand. That advice will come. We shall see what that advice will say. There is an agreement within the government to extend the tax shelter that existed for start-ups, a federal measure, to all SMEs whose turnover is severely weakened until the end of the year. This measure is absolutely in line with their question. I will also come to this committee with the extension of the tax shelter to SMEs, but also to managers. That's very important. It becomes possible that a manager with a company in difficulty can use his own capital to save his business. Flanders is looking at a similar measure. I have given you an overview of what has been done and what is to come. You were rather wondering how these investment funds could be created and how people could be encouraged to invest in them. At a time like this, the question arises as to whether there is a shortage of liquid assets. The European Central Bank, the ECB, keeps pumping money into the economy. This can be a good idea or not, depending on your point of view. Is there really a shortage today? Is the fact that there is too much money on the savings books today the reason why certain companies are not being financed? I'm not convinced of that. In international markets, there are very many resources. If in Flanders this is more in their jurisdiction... the Particatiemaatschappij Vlaanderen would like to start a fund of 2 billion to invest in ailing companies, PMV would have no difficulty in raising that capital on the financial markets. They'd probably be pretty good at that. They would probably do that cheaper than they would mobilise savings for it. If savings were to be mobilised, a reasonable return would have to be given, higher than in the financial markets. In addition, a form of protection will have to be provided. In any case, I would not be in favour of creating a retail product aimed at the modal saver without a capital guarantee. I am not in favour of that, because I think this is very dangerous. If we have to offer a capital guarantee, I wonder whether it really pays to create it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that it is a big leap, as it is about the caution and the defensive nature of a savings account vis-à-vis a private investment fund. You acknowledge that savers are not sufficiently financially qualified to make decisions in this regard. However, banks have experience of this and banks are also required to reduce risk profiles. I know that the ECB also makes a lot of money available. We do see, despite the existing bank guarantee plan, that it is possible to postpone certain credits, that it is not always obvious to be able to obtain new credits. Entrepreneurs face the necessary problems because own funds often have to be increased in one way or another. That's where the distinction is. When we talk about loans, the banks and the ECB, it is about debt on the balance sheet, which is, of course, never a good thing. After all, what bank will provide new loans to SMEs or companies that make important investments or need important loans? I think it's a win-win situation. Of course, we must be very careful about this, but if we can increase equity with private funds, for example, it will increase solvency and, at the same time, increase credit quality, which in turn makes it better for credit insurers, for the purchase of goods and the like. We now note that credit limits are falling, while credits are essential, especially for those who act internationally. I therefore want to focus on own funds, as I have done in the past. The measures you mention, such as the carry back and the extension of the tax shelter, are very useful and we will continue to support them. However, we must also consider measures without having a direct impact on the government. If there are so many resources in the Belgian savings accounts, why do we not try to mobilise them, so that it becomes an en-en-story, along with the measures taken by the federal government? The federal government has invested a lot over the past few weeks and months. Let us also look at other resources that are available and use them in addition to them to overcome the crisis as quickly as possible, preferably in order to protect companies' own assets. In this way, we can continue to protect not only those companies, but also all the jobs associated with them in the future. We have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation on which we would like to ask for a vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u4	Colleagues, would anyone like to speak? Three people have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u5	Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. With your three-stage rocket of carry forward, reconstruction and tax shelter, we are taking the first steps to give the necessary impetus to strengthen solvency. However, we must show some modesty with regard to motions of recommendation and legislative proposals. We need to get out of COVID-19. Despite these good intentions, we must allow the Minister to do his job and allow the government to assume its responsibilities. I shall therefore table a simple motion following Mr Van Lommel's recommendation. In due course, there will be a discussion in committee on possible further steps, but we must first let the government do its job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u6	Madam President, I would like to repeat that. You are talking about the COVID-19 urgency, Mr Leysen, but this is a matter of urgency. It's about our companies. Flanders is an SME country and many companies are suffering very much today. You say that the Minister and the Government must do their work on this, but Parliament must also do its job. It is our task as representatives of the people to make the necessary interviews and proposals on this matter, which can also be picked up by the government if they are useful. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is urgent. I have also seen in previous questions and requests for urgency that people always say that the economic revival and the turn out of the crisis are coming soon, but as we were the first in Parliament in January or February to warn of the great economic malaise that would come towards us, we warn you once again today that our companies will find it very difficult in the coming years, that many jobs will be at risk, that the Renault Act will be applied in a number of companies and that we will have to be in favour of it. Measures like this may cost society a little bit. We try to look at alternatives, but they do make sure that social costs will be much lower later. That is our job in Parliament, and we must continue to do so. As far as we are concerned, this is therefore part of the order of the day. In your simple motion, of course, you refer to the order of the day, Mr Leysen, but for me this is just the order of the day. I regret, moreover, that simple motions have been tabled. If the government, the majority or whatever it may be called in this House says that there is no basis for it, let us wait for the vote next week. You say that you do not agree with that, then confess colour and vote against our motion of recommendation. I find it regrettable that a simple motion is now being tabled to move on to the order of the day, because that does not really do justice to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u7	Madam President, good points have been raised in the debate, and I also understand that this is being discussed here, because Parliament must use the means at its disposal to discuss certain issues. Mr van Lommel, when you speak of moving on to the order of business, I would like to point out that a parliament can do a number of things, including adopt motions, put resolutions on the agenda but also do effective legislative work. In this committee we are now fully engaged in legislative work, and so we will change the world. It may be possible to do so with your motion in the long term, but give me the short term of legislative work. In fact, we were working on this yesterday, and I would like to thank the Minister for the correct and constructive cooperation in this area. I would just like to repeat a few words I said yesterday in this Chamber. There are no video cameras in this room, and great rhetoric might be better placed in the plenary room, so that we can get back to legislative work a little faster. After all, we are going to have to approve a budget that will have a real impact on this country in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u8	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for the fight against tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation, - whereas the corona measures and the economic crisis resulting from the crisis have a strong liquidity impact on many companies which are part of our economy, which is already perceptible today; - having regard to the recent measures taken at Flemish level within the limited framework of the powers available to the regions and communities; - considering the need for more fiscal powers at Flemish level to increase the capacity of the sub-areas and to respond to economic revival and in anticipation of increased powers; - whereas the equity of many companies is insufficient to survive the crisis; - whereas an increase in bankruptcies would have a serious impact on employment in that country; - whereas a strengthening of own funds (in this case capital) creates a higher solvency ratio, giving SMEs a greater chance of acceptance in the case of new necessary loans; - whereas many companies are not able to obtain financial credits today; - whereas a mix of measures should be developed by the Government; - whereas there is more than EUR 280 billion in Belgian savings accounts; - considering the need for low-threshold measures to allow savers to invest in investment funds for participation in the capital of coronatic companies; - considering the limited knowledge of many savers to invest in specific companies or sectors; - considering the experience of banks in the framework of private investment funds (so-called equity funds); - whereas fiscal measures may encourage savers to invest in equity funds that will only be used for economic relance as a result of the corona crisis; - whereas additional private capital may complement the strengthening of own funds in addition to the measures already taken by the Government; asks the government: - consult with the financial sector as part of the establishment of tax-friendly corona equity funds managed by financial institutions and supervised by the current audit bodies; - develop fiscal measures to encourage savers to invest in these investment funds; - to use these funds only in the context of participation in capital for SMEs suffering from the corona crisis." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation, - considering the considerable impact that the measures linked to the coronavirus crisis and the subsequent economic crisis will have on the liquidity of many Belgian companies participating in our economy, which is already visible; - in view of the recent measures taken at Flemish level within the narrow framework of the powers available to the Regions and Communities; - considering the need to give greater fiscal powers to the Flemish level by giving federated entities more means of action and enabling them to act in a targeted way on economic recovery and waiting for additional powers; - Whereas the equity of many companies is insufficient to survive the crisis; Whereas an increase in the number of bankruptcies would have serious consequences for employment in that country; - Whereas a strengthening of own funds (in this case capital) increases the solvency ratio, which improves the position of SMEs with banks if new loans are needed; - Whereas today many companies are not able to obtain financial credits; Whereas it is for the Government to implement a wide range of measures; - Whereas more than EUR 280 billion is sleeping on Belgian savings accounts; - Whereas measures should be taken that are accessible to as many people as possible to enable savers to invest in equity-oriented investment funds for companies that have suffered from the coronavirus crisis; - considering the limited knowledge of many savers about investment in specific enterprises or sectors; - taking into account the experience of banks in the context of private investment funds (the equity funds); - Whereas tax measures may encourage savers to invest in equity funds which will be used exclusively for economic recovery after the crisis of the coronavirus; - Whereas additional private capital may help to strengthen own funds alongside measures already taken by the government; Asks the government: - to organise a consultation with the financial sector in the context of the creation of "Corona Equity Funds" with a tax-effective status which must be managed by the financial institutions and placed under the supervision of the existing supervisory bodies; - to introduce tax measures to encourage investment in these investment funds; - to use these funds only in the context of participation in the capital of SMEs which have suffered from the coronavirus crisis." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. A simple motion was tabled by Christian Leysen. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u9	Minister, although income from real estate abroad is taxed under the double taxation treaties in the country where the property is located and is thus exempt in Belgium, they must be declared in Belgium. These foreign revenues are used to determine the taxable base and the tax rate. All double taxation treaties contain a provision allowing the exchange of information in order to combat tax fraud. This provision allows the exchange of information between States on the acquisition and disposal of immovable property. There is already an exchange of information on real estate within the European Union. That is, of course, a good thing. According to a study by the King Baudouin Foundation, 60% of Moroccans in Belgium own property in Morocco. Belgium and Morocco have signed a double tax convention providing for the exchange of information of a fiscal nature. In a 2018 statement by the FPS Finance spokesman, it says: "At the request of the Belgian Finance Minister, Johan Van Overtveldt, the Belgian tax administration contacted its Moroccan partner to start negotiations with a view to concluding an agreement for the automatic exchange of information on real estate. Such an agreement may be concluded between tax administrations, but does not require a revision of the Double Taxation Convention." On the intranet site, the FPS Finance published on 6 May 2020 a notice stating that the Financial Information Processing Cell has published two communications on money laundering and terrorist financing related to the impact of the corona crisis. The document states: "The economic uncertainty further causes the prices of real estate to fall. As a result, money laundering of drug revenues through the purchase of real estate will be more efficient. This also has an impact both at national and international level. Criminal organisations active in drug trafficking will have very large amounts of cash at their disposal. When taking up economic and social life, they are ready to bring these funds into the financial system. Large deposits in cash into accounts of companies with limited official turnover or in financial difficulties may indicate a possible connection with drug trafficking. Investing these funds through the purchase of other cash-intensive businesses or investing in real estate in Belgium and abroad are the final investment phase of the money laundering process. Spain, Morocco, Turkey and in particular the United Arab Emirates often come back as investment countries for real estate." So much for the quote from the internal document of the FPS Finance. In other words, real estate investments in both Belgium and abroad can be used to launder illegal income from the sale of drugs. In this case, Morocco is even explicitly referred to as a final destination for illegal investments aimed at laundering criminal money. It should be noted that Morocco is on the grey list of tax havens of the European Union. As far as the Kingdom of Morocco is concerned, the European Union does regard that country as cooperating in the implementation of its commitments. In view of the comments made by the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI) and Morocco's willingness to cooperate in the tax field, we consider it important to relaunch negotiations on the automatic exchange of tax information with Morocco. Minister, what is the state of play with regard to the negotiations on the exchange of tax information with Morocco? Do you intend to revive these negotiations? How many declarations in the personal income tax indicated which property is located abroad outside the European Union and for what amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u10	As you rightly point out, my predecessor asked the competent department within the tax administration a few years ago to contact a number of countries, including Morocco, with a view to reaching an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on the possession and acquisition of immovable property. None of the contacted countries were prepared to start negotiations. The reasons for this were more or less always the same. Firstly, priority is being given to the implementation of the automatic exchange of financial information, in line with the common reporting standard to which they have committed themselves. Secondly, there is currently no uniform international format available for the automatic exchange of information on the possession and acquisition of immovable property. Thirdly, at international level, there are almost no countries that are requesting parties to exchange such information. Fourthly, the information is not always available centrally and electronically. The ongoing cooperation between Morocco and the European Union in the field of taxation, to which you refer in your question, takes place in the context of the work of the EU Code of Conduct Group set up by the Council. This group uses a number of criteria that third countries must meet to avoid being included on the EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. The automatic exchange of information on immovable property is not one of these criteria and therefore does not play a role in EU-Morocco tax cooperation. In general, it is concluded that there is currently no interest at international level in organising an automatic exchange of information on immovable property. Finally, it is important to note that Morocco has formally committed itself to automatically exchanging financial data with all other engaged countries, including Belgium, in accordance with the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) from September 2021. This information will enable financial flows to be identified and targeted tax controls to be organised. As far as your third question is concerned, a distinction must be made between countries with which Belgium has concluded an agreement to avoid double taxation and those with which such an agreement was not concluded. For the former, the amount involved is 2,444 taxpayers, who have declared a total amount of EUR 6.2 million. For countries with which no agreement has been concluded, the amount involved is 142,648 taxpayers, who have declared a total amount of EUR 495,2 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u11	In your reply, Minister, you refer above all to what Morocco has done, but my question was what you have done to obtain information. You are hiding behind Morocco's response, which is in the process of computerization with a view to applying the Common Reporting Standard. My question was, however, what did you do to ultimately encourage Morocco to provide information? You have concluded a double taxation agreement with Morocco. So nothing prevents you from asking Morocco for information. I made that clear at the beginning of my speech. If Morocco says it does not yet have information technology, that is its problem. As Minister of Finance, you must ensure that everything in our country is fiscally correct. After all, the warning given by the Financial Information Processing Cell is not a bad thing. The CFI refers to money laundering in the context of drug activities and terrorist financing. Minister, I expect a much more comprehensive answer from you. Who are we, if the King Baudouin Foundation admits that 60% of Moroccans in Belgium own property in Morocco? Who are we, if the tax authorities themselves admit that real estate in Morocco is being used to launder drug money and other criminal money? Since we have a double tax treaty with Morocco and the European Union confirms that Morocco is a cooperating country, nothing will stop you from acting. The taxable basis and tax rate of Moroccans with real estate should eventually be increased. The mocromafia must be dealt with decisively. That must be a priority in this country. Today another grenade exploded in Antwerp. Of course, no link has yet been confirmed with drug crime, but it has been demonstrated in previous cases. Policy makers must make their approach absolutely a priority. Drug gangs and criminal gangs are ready to take advantage of the corona crisis to launder money. That confirms the taxis in black and white in an internal document; so it is not from the Flemish Interest. A great deal of time has already been lost and, as far as we are concerned, a further delay cannot be justified, particularly in view of the strong warning given by the tax authorities. So make the issue a priority, if necessary with other finance ministers of the European Member States. Put the item on the agenda in Europe. Tie the cat to the doorbell so we can finally get that important information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u12	With all due respect to the colleague in our sitting, I shall table a simple motion. After all, I think there is a lot on our agenda right now. There are a thousand legislative texts waiting in Parliament; a thousand questions and interplays surrounding the COOVID-19 crisis were also raised. In these circumstances, in the light of the Government's response, which is doing its job, we must not spend any time on this at this time. I shall therefore table a simple motion. We may need to consider efficiency and prioritisation at an appropriate time. To the extent that I should be allowed, but what I will not do is to make a recommendation to my colleagues in the Flemish interest. If things had to move forward, perhaps you should not have abstained yesterday. You have said here that you are in favour of the Minister's measures, including the reconstruction reserve. Retroactive recommendations are of no use. So I don't do them and I leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u13	Mr Leysen, may I just point out that I have not tabled a motion at all? I just asked the Minister a few questions while you tabled a motion to move on to the order of the day. That's something very special, isn't it? After all, you are from the province of Antwerp and it is in Antwerp that the mocromafia is so active. In fact, you say to your Antwerp voters that you do not care that drug money is being laundered as a result of the corona crisis, including in Morocco. That is clearly not a priority for you, even though the tax authorities have put it in writing in black and white. We abstained yesterday in the vote on the text on the reconstruction reserve, because the Council of State has not yet considered it, as the Minister has confirmed. We have the right to wait and see what the Council of State says. A reserve is not as urgent as a carry-back scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u14	There is no simple motion as there is no motion for recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u15	Madam President, my question was not answered. Minister, what have you done to obtain information from Morocco? Minister Van Overtveldt said that this was the beginning. However, you have apparently done nothing to obtain that information from Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u16	Normally, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u17	If a question is asked, I am prepared to answer it. That kind of thing happens through the administration. The administration has a department that deals with these matters. At the initiative of my predecessor, Mr Van Overtveldt, this service contacted the Moroccan authorities and the authorities of other countries. All countries reply today that they are operating via CRS. The exchange of information is carried out via CRS. That's gonna be the standard now. The question of another form of exchange of information was raised with Morocco and other countries, but the reply was that they worked through the CRS system. That is what my administration has done on the initiative of my predecessor. The administration has continued to work on this. I have continued the initiative of my predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u18	Minister, I conclude that under your rule nothing has yet been done on this issue, except for the administration of your predecessor's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u19	Minister, on Wednesday 27 May 2020, the European Commission proposed the creation of an economic recovery fund of EUR 750 billion. You were at the negotiating table on behalf of our country. Under the guise of the coronavirus, the European Commission plans to redistribute many billions of taxpayers' money. I have a number of questions here. Firstly, the first figures that leaked, namely that Belgium would be entitled to EUR 5.48 billion in grants from the European Recovery Fund, you mentioned in the press and also Belga prematurely and misleadingly. In your opinion, the figure refers only to one instrument of the fund. In the meantime, however, the European Commission's working document showed that Belgium would become a net contributor or a contributioner of no less than 13.5 billion euros. The figures in the working document assume that Belgium guarantees EUR 25.5 billion in loans, of which EUR 12 billion would flow back to Belgium. That makes a difference of EUR 13.5 billion. Whoever calculates these net contributions discovers that Belgium is ultimately the ninth largest net contributor in per cent of GDP, but also the ninth largest contributor per capita in the European Union. Minister, can you confirm these figures? Can you clarify that working document? Secondly, the Structural Funds and cohesion policy were fully delegated to the three Belgian regions. These funds are ultimately distributed regionally through partnership agreements. The same applies, for example, to agricultural and maritime funds. To what extent will the European Recovery Fund be delegated to the Länder? Will a partnership agreement be used? How will the proposed EUR 12 billion of loans from the Fund eventually be distributed regionally? Thirdly, the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden initially rejected the Franco-German proposal to introduce the corona recovery fund. For these responsible countries, I deliberately call them'responsible' countries, and not 'dirty' countries, the fund must be based on loans for loans. Subsidies are ultimately out of the question for these countries. However, the recovery fund consists of two thirds of grants and one third of loans. Why did Belgium not support these four countries' pleas at the negotiating table? You, as a liberal, I believe, will have your reservations about such a preponderance of subsidies. Fourthly, the recovery fund also introduces two new principles, on the one hand, the Community-making, mutualisation or joint-making of debts, on the other hand, a number of new own resources to finance. What is the government's position on the mutuation of debts and the new own resources? To what extent is the government prepared to give up our country's fiscal autonomy for the benefit of the European Union? Fifthly, the recovery fund requires unanimity of the Member States in the European Council and must be approved by the European Parliament and the national parliaments. To what extent do you and the government consider this unanimity and approval feasible? Sixth and finally, Belgium currently has a minority government with special powers to deal with the corona crisis in Belgium. How does the government see the final approval of the recovery fund in these special powers? What is Parliament's competence in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u20	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, you refer to documents, but you yourself say that they are working documents. Work documents are characteristic of the fact that they have not yet been knocked off. This is a proposal from the European Commission. You claim that I was at the table when it was being worked out, which is not true. Germany and France have found each other on a particular point and based on it or inspired it, the European Commission has made a proposal. The European Commission is autonomous in its operation and is not sent by national ministers. However, there was a first ECOFIN meeting of Finance Ministers yesterday, at which the proposal was discussed. I would, however, like to make a number of points which I put forward on that occasion. Firstly, the proposal is a proposal that balances solidarity and responsibility. The amount of EUR 750 billion is often discussed, but the fund also discusses necessary structural reforms and links with the European Semester and the Country Specific Recommendations. So it's not just the drawer with the money open. Part of the fund has a conditionality, which I think is absolutely justifiable. I have also asked the question as to how the distribution will take place. In my view, this distribution is still too much based on the traditional shift rules that have been in force so far, namely from West to East and from North to South. The impact of the COVID-19 crisis can be seen in all countries, albeit very asymmetric. In my view, the West East and the North-South axis are not the only ones. The problem is that too often old criteria are used, i.e. criteria that come from 2019. However, in 2019 there was no impact of COOVID-19. So the question is how we use criteria that have to do with the severity with which countries have been impacted. In my speech yesterday at the Ecofin Council, I also said that I believe that this should be reviewed. I also referred, like Ireland, to the Brexit, as a hard Brexit might come back to the horizon. A hard Brexit can potentially have an impact on certain countries in the future, including our country. We need to look at how these resources are distributed. The biggest mistake we can make is to calculate how much we spend in the EU budget and how much we get back from it. The real debate is about what benefits our economy will have in a well-functioning internal market. Countries such as Spain, Italy and France are among the largest exporting countries for our economy, including the Flemish economy. If the European market were no longer to function, the possible loss would be many times greater than in the discussion on whether we will get enough back in relation to what we have to pay the EU. So, please, let us not blind ourselves, as some people are doing today, by making purely a kind of accounting calculation of input and output, because for us the loss on the European market is much greater when countries like Spain and Italy drag a millstone of debt with them for ten years. If the internal Spanish, French or Italian demand falls silent, then this also has disadvantages for the Belgian company, or perhaps the Flemish companies that are more important to you, who sell their products in those countries. For me, the Belgian companies are important, and I understand that your attention lies elsewhere. In my view, therefore, the impact is not just about which one is the right return, but about whether the European internal market will emerge. The value of the latter is, in my view, many times greater. You spoke of the mutualisation of debts, but we must pay attention to that. The purpose of the mutualisation of debts is technically to mutualise existing national debts. However, that is not what is going on. It is now about a new package over the Member States, against which there are some own revenues. In doing so, the composition of these own revenues is still one of the great uncertainties. The demand for the link to the MFF remains open. In the final adoption of such a recovery plan, the government will respect the applicable legal framework, as always including the role of Parliament. I hope the deal gets there soon. We can do two more years, but then it is of course over. The sooner the agreement arrives, the greater the benefit. There are few countries in Europe that make as much net profit from the internal market as Belgium. It is about Denmark, Austria, the Netherlands and Belgium. These are the net main earners of the internal market. It is in the interests of everyone, of all companies and of all citizens of our country that our country is striving for an agreement that will enable the internal market to continue to function.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u21	Minister, in the study I have made for MEP Gerolf Annemans, we have calculated that Flanders is already the largest net contributor to the European Union today. The European Restoration Fund of EUR 750 billion will make a major contribution to this. You also referred to the Brexit: you know that Belgium's net contributor position will deteriorate after the Brexit. The fund before it is divided into EUR 250 billion in loans and EUR 500 billion in grants, especially to Spain and Italy. With all due understanding for Italy and Spain and the extent of the corona crisis in those two countries, it is not the responsibility of the Flemish taxpayer to assume the long-standing sovereign debt of those two countries. Let us not forget that Belgium too was particularly affected by the crisis: Belgium has the highest number of reported coronados in relation to the population and also the highest excess mortality rates. Countries such as Slovakia, where hardly any casualties have been suffered, would go home in this plan with some EUR 10 billion. So we are clearly saying yes to temporary loans, but no to gifts. The proposed non-refundable subsidies must be clear, Minister, because you did not stress this in your reply. However, we have nothing to give away, because yesterday it became clear once again in this committee that our public debt is now completely derailed by the corona crisis. All the tax money available must now be used to rebuild our own economy, our labour market and our purchasing power. Six out of ten families suffer financial losses due to the corona crisis, a quarter of a million people, employees and self-employed people risk losing their jobs. There is also a huge wave of bankruptcies. Mr Van Lommel just said that the Flemish interest warned about the corona crisis in January; now we also warn about the severity of the economic crisis that will eventually come. Minister, we ask you to defend the interests of the country and ultimately not to bow to the proposal of Emmanuel Macron and Angela Merkel, and certainly not to be prepared to transfer our tax money abroad. We fear that the Flemish politicians will once again join the umpteenth European plan that makes Flanders one of the largest net contributors, this time of the corona restoration. For the first time, common debts are incurred and European taxes are envisaged. First the money is spent and then it's only going to be looked at how it can be financed. That's not a proper policy, if you ask us. We therefore fit in with European taxes. These will be an attack on the Flemish assets. Fiscality is and remains for us a competence of, for and by the Member States. Flanders is not only the largest net contributor of the European Union, but, above that, Flemings will also be able to pay through European taxes the bill of the pivotal European institutions and the dampening of southern European wells. Flemish interest wants to see no half-hearted European compromises made at the expense of the Flemish. We ask the Minister to give us a guarantee that the government will ultimately not agree to a solution that includes European transfers from national taxpayers' money. That is why we have tabled a motion calling for the government to oppose the European Commission's present recovery fund. You referred to the working document, Minister, but we want you to take a tough position in the negotiations and finally join countries such as the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden. In your speech, you also referred to the economic benefits of the European Union. I do not have to explain to you that the European Union has long ceased to be an exclusively economic union, but is now increasingly becoming a political union. The economic benefits are therefore only part of what Europe is. The other part is a European policy on which we, as Flemish and Belgian voters, have less and less to say. You are not responding, but what you are doing here, in particular the granting of many billions to the recovery plan, is not one of the special powers you were given. I do not understand why no other party in this House makes one comment on this. This is not the power of this minority government. You will not be given the mandate of this Parliament to advocate this in the European Union. So I wonder why we are the only party to make a comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u22	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you, first of all, for stressing that economic corona aid must go to countries that are most economically affected. With the first EUR 37 billion corona fund, the parameters were not entirely correct because it had to be done very quickly. This is now in danger of happening again. It is good that you are vigilant in this respect. If there is a corona repair fund, it should also be used to repair the corona damage. That makes sense. Secondly, you are right that the European Union is not an input-output story and that it is much wider than that, especially for an open trading economy like ours. Yesterday, the Minister for the Budget gave a presentation. The deficit is already up to EUR 50 billion. Your colleagues' figures do not include the additional contributions to the European Union. The Minister also confirmed that Belgium will give more than will be returned. Belgium is therefore becoming an even larger net contributor. Hence our concern, but we have heard that it is also your concern to strike a balance between responsibility and solidarity. My third point concerns the national approval of what has been put on the table by the European Commission. One of the questions was how that would happen. In your reply, you noted that the government will respect the applicable framework, with respect for the role of Parliament. In my legal reading it should be 'with respect for the role of parliaments in this country'. In my view, this is not just the competence of this national Parliament, but also the approval of the Land Parliaments. It will be important to take this into account on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u23	Mr. Leysen, you have tabled a simple motion. Nothing to add!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u24	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Vermeersch and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Wouter Vermeersch and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for the fight against tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation, - having regard to the European Commission's press release d. 27 May 2020 on the European Recovery Instrument of EUR 750 billion; - having regard to the European Commission's working document d.o.b. 27 May 2020; - whereas Belgium is one of the largest net contributors in the European Union and is also one of the largest net contributors in this recovery fund; - whereas Belgium was particularly affected by the corona virus, but receives relatively little from the recovery fund unlike other heavily affected countries such as Spain and Italy; - whereas the recovery fund has a preponderance of subsidies versus loans. The Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden initially rejected the Franco-German proposal on the corona recovery fund. For these responsible countries, the fund must be based on 'loans for loans', and subsidies for these countries must not be allowed. However, the two-thirds recovery fund consists of grants and only one-third of loans; - whereas the proposed non-refundable grants amount to gifts to southern Europe; - having regard to the fact that the recovery fund is responsible for 'communitarisation','mutualisation' or'mutualisation' of debts; - whereas the Recovery Fund envisages European taxes and thereby undermines the fiscal autonomy of the Member States; - whereas the recovery fund requires unanimity of the Member States in the European Council; asks the government: to oppose the European Commission's present recovery fund." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Vermeersch and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Wouter Vermeersch and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation, - having regard to the European Commission press release of 27 May 2020 on the €750 billion European Recovery Instrument; - having regard to the working document of the European Commission of 27 May 2020; - Whereas Belgium is one of the main net contributors of the European Union and that this recovery fund appears to be one of the main net contributors; - Whereas Belgium has been particularly severely affected by coronavirus but receives relatively little from this recovery fund as opposed to other seriously affected countries such as Spain and Italy; - Whereas the recovery fund is financed more by subsidies than by borrowing. The Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden had initially rejected the Franco-German proposal for the Corona Recovery Fund. For these responsible countries, the fund must be based on "borrowing for borrowing" and subsidies are excluded. Yet the existing recovery fund is financed for two thirds by subsidies and for just one third by borrowings; Whereas the proposed unrecoverable subsidies amount to grants to the countries of southern Europe; - Whereas the recovery fund practises "communitarization", "mutualization" or pooling of debts; Whereas the reorganization fund highlights the possibility of levying taxes and thus undermines the fiscal autonomy of the Member States; Whereas the recovery fund requires unanimity from the Member States of the European Council; Asks the government: to oppose the recovery fund proposed by the European Commission." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. A simple motion was tabled by Christian Leysen. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u25	Minister, one question has not yet been answered. How will these resources be distributed? How will this be distributed regionally? That is important, because we want to follow it up. The Chair: Mr. Vermeersch, you have already replied. No, it's not a debate, it's an inquiry. The minister responded and you replied. The debate is closed. The Minister of Budget is present. The debate is closed, it is the Rules of Procedure. You will again question the minister if you are not satisfied, but you have already replied and we have already exceeded the time allotted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u26	Let me get this straight. I cannot now anticipate the way in which the division will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic201x.u27	Thank you, Minister.
