ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u1	Kristien Van Vaerenberg, chairman: Good morning, I believe that all the committee members and all the guests are present in the meantime. So we can start our meeting. As agreed last week, we are continuing our work and today we have a hearing with former Minister of the Interior, Jan Jambon, the Commissioner-General, Mr De Mesmaeker, and former Commissioner-General, Mrs De Bolle. Perhaps first and foremost a number of practical arrangements. We still live in special circumstances and we still have to be careful because of the coronavirus. That is why agreements have been made with the press today. We agreed that the press could be present for 10 minutes to take some footage. Afterwards there is an opportunity to follow everything on screen in the room next door. In a turn-roll system, two journalists or two camera people can take pictures alternately. A mouth mask must always be worn in this committee room. The same applies to the members of the committee. If we establish at some point that too many people are present in this Chamber, the staff will also have to leave the Chamber. In principle, there is the possibility of having one member of staff attend the meeting per political group. These are a number of practical arrangements. An integral report will also be produced from today's sitting. The press can also use the internal camera footage. I just forgot to mention this. The meeting will take place as follows: I shall first give the floor to our guests: first Prime Minister Jambon, then Mr De Mesmaeker and then Mrs De Bolle. They'll have a brief eviction of about ten minutes. After that, of course, there is room for debate. To keep it easy and practical, we will use the size of the groups to determine the order. There is also possibility of reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u2	Madam President, I would like to respond to your proposal on the order of business. Last week, we decided to continue the hearings in the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs and Justice. I had raised some doubts about this, but now that this is the case, it seems to me that at least there should be two interventions per group: one representative of the Committee on the Interior and one representative of the Committee on Justice. Otherwise, we wonder what we're doing here. I propose that we organize our work by allowing one representative from each group in each committee to speak in the first round. Thank you. Kristien Van Vaerenberg, President: Of course I would like to give all the members of the committee the opportunity to express themselves fully in the debate, but from a practical point of view I think it would be better to let each group speak first, to let the minister respond and finally to allow for additional questions, replies and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u3	Madam President, I have a few more questions. I understood Minister Jambon would release all the documents. There would be no problem with it. It is therefore essential for us to do so. I expected that we would have all the documents and all the communication from the cabinet and the police summit, with the ministries and so on, and certainly also the police report here. We see no reason why these documents cannot be here now. So we should follow. I understand that Mr Soors will be asking a question about this later, but the documents must be available at the beginning of the committee meeting. Kristien Van Vaerenberg, President: After the debate, indeed, Mrs Soors' question is still on the agenda. You are now a little too ahead of the facts, Mr Colebunders. Let's listen to the guests first. After all, we do not yet know what they will tell us and how they will inform us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u4	Madam President, it would have been fairer for each group to have a speaking time, otherwise we will not be able to properly share the various questions to be asked by Mr Jambon and the two Commissioners, the present and the previous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u5	It is true that I had the request on behalf of the political groups last Thursday to have access to all the documents, precisely because we want to destroy the discussion and because we want to use the time of the people who are here today as efficiently as possible. It is logical that, as in a college, we first know the content and then continue to do so, then that we have a hearing and can only look at certain documents afterwards, with the risk that we will have to hold a second hearing next week because there are still facts to emerge. I don't think the order makes any sense. I therefore insist on my request last week that the documents should be made available to Parliament. Kristien Van Vaerenberg, President: Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we should be tempted to hold a half-hour procedural debate before we have heard our speakers. Your point is on the table and will be dealt with. We must wait and see what the speakers have to say today. Maybe there will be documents, I don't know. The intention is that we should be able to get everyone involved. I hope that the groups are reasonable and that they will not be spoken for too long. I think it is logical that we work according to the size of the groups, with one speaker per group. Let us keep a target time of five minutes per group. Afterwards the reply comes and then there is still the possibility for all Members of Parliament to go further. I suggest we get started.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u6	Madam President, I really think you should take on a neutral role. Last week, a joint committee on Justice and Home Affairs decided to continue its work. And now you say that there can only be one intervention per group and that will then be answered. Agreed if this had only been a committee for internal affairs, but this is a joint committee. You must allow each group to speak and replicate both a member of the Committee on Justice and a member of the Committee on the Interior. I do not understand why you want to conclude this debate now. I really do not think this is correct, Madam President. I asked you this from the beginning. I would ask that the members of each group should be able to express the reservations they consider appropriate. Everyone will try to do that in as short a time as possible. It is not intended to prolong the debate. It would be correct for the members of the two committees who have come and prepared for this debate. Madam President, I would ask you to take this into account before the answers are given. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: I certainly do not want to slow down the debate. We have not yet started the debate. But I would also ask all Members of Parliament to be a little practical with regard to the organisation of this committee meeting. Let us start with Minister Jambon's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u7	What will the first round consist of, Madam Chair? Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, chairman: We will see how far we can get in the first round. One speaker per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u8	Madam Chair, you hear that the members of the committee disagree. I understand your concern not to let us intervene for fifty minutes. However, here it is incomprehensible: you impose one speaker per group, but you do not react if one person speaks for an hour. It's not right. You wanted a joint commission. We have all prepared our interventions. Out of respect for the work done, you should therefore allow two speakers per group, even if you limit their speaking time to ten minutes. Kristien Van Vaerenberg, President: Mr De Roover, you asked to speak? [[No.]] We're doing a first round. We are looking at whether there are any groups that are still asking for the floor, and then we are moving on. I'll meet you, Mrs. Khattabi. There may be groups that do not have two speakers, but I suspect they do not. Let us be practical.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as I did on Saturday, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the relatives and friends of Mr Chovanec. The loss of a loved one is a heavy burden to bear, especially in those circumstances. I hope that one day everything will become clear and justice will be done. I will explain to you today how I and my then cabinet dealt with this sad matter. The judicial investigation is still ongoing, so I cannot comment on the judicial file and I am not aware of the state of play. The terrible images of the actions of police officers in Charleroi, who suddenly appeared in the press two weeks ago, were for me, as for you all, I assume, I repeat, completely new. These images did not reach me or my cabinet before and when I first looked at them two weeks ago, I was, like everyone else, deeply shocked. They did not remind me in any way of the dossier for which we are here today and which I want to prove today that it looked completely different two and a half years ago than what can be learned from the images in question, which were shown two weeks ago. I am always in favour of the police and will always defend the office with fire, as I have always done as Minister of the Interior. What I see on these images, however, is unacceptable, inexplicable and terrible for fellow police officers and society as a whole. I will now give you a account of the facts, as I have been able to reconstruct them with some difficulty over the past few days. As Prime Minister of Flanders, you will understand that I have very little access to archives or other relevant sources. The file as presented in the press today, so on the basis of the camera footage, which we have all seen in the meantime, is very different from the file that was presented to me two and a half years ago. Difficult, muscular arrest, followed by hospitalization and, a few days later, death at the hospital, that's how we knew the file. At that time, I only had a brief and neutral police report, which I would like to share with you today. I therefore ask the President to have her services examine how the police report can be requested and shared without harming the investigation. One could, for example, contact the current Minister for the Interior if he wants to share that report with the committee. But most of all, I want to see that we don't make procedural mistakes. Now I like to give the timeline of events, as we have been able to reconstruct them. We write Friday 23 February 2018, 19.11 hours. I quote from the police report: "Aggressive man is removed from the plane by the police." On the same day, at 21.02 p.m., the magistrate's advice, namely to have a doctor conduct an investigation, an identity check, the footage of the route taken by the arresting officer by the airport, a Salduz 4 interview, pv rebellion and reconfirmation on 24 February. So on February 24th, the magistrate would have to give new advice. On February 23rd, so the same Friday, at 11:31 p.m., the doctor arrives and declares that the man may be held in prison. Saturday 24 February at 1.05 hours the man becomes violent in the cell, wounds himself and gets calmed and apologizes. At 4:23 p.m. the same night, the man becomes violent again. The police are going into jail to calm him down. The video we've all seen is about that intervention. At 5:00, the doctor arrives and gives him an injection to calm down. You can see that in the video. At 5:03 p.m., the man will have a cardiac arrest and be stabilized by compressions. At 5:28, the man will be taken to the hospital. At 5:50 p.m. there will be contact between the police and the magistrate of duty. The order is given to share the known information with the hospital and to deliver pvs to the magistrate by 9 a.m. On the same Saturday morning at 7.50 p.m., the magistrate decides to lift the judicial arrest in the event of accidental death and confiscate the body. On Sunday 25 February at 16.55 p.m., the magistrate orders that an investigation be opened for involuntary beatings and injuries, which should be added to the file of rebellion and the video footage displayed in the Slovak media at that time. These are images of what happened at the airport. He also orders the filmer to identify as a witness. The magistrate also decides to let the file act that the video footage, taken at the airport and in the police cell, had already been confiscated. On Monday morning, 26 February, I received a request from the Slovak Embassy for a discussion on the facts of 23 February. At 1.55 p.m. on the same Monday, February 26, my associate requests information about the incident. At 4.29 p.m. on the same Monday, the Aviation Police DG (LPA) will deliver the police report to my cabinet employee. He also reports that the LPA Gosselies has been approached by Slovak television. At 16.40 p.m., the cabinet officer will deliver the police report to his superior, stating that he will prepare a sheet for receipt of the ambassador. The employee also distributes that police report to the Administrative-Technical Secretariat of the Interior (SAT). The SAT is the connection between the police and the cabinet. The service is in the same building as the cabinet. On 27 February, the husband's wife presented herself as a bourgeois party in the case of her husband to the investigating judge of Charleroi. The same day, but after the wife has made himself a bourgeois party, the man dies. That's Tuesday, February 27th. So the ambassador's interview had already been requested at that time. On Wednesday 28 February, Charleroi's parish will issue a press release on the death. Thursday, March 1st, 3:30 p.m., I will be informed of the death of the arresting officer, the Ambassador's planned visit on March 2nd and the judicial investigation initiated. 2 March 2018, two cabinet employees meet the ambassador of Slovakia. I myself am abroad at that time and am therefore not present at that maintenance. Then suddenly there's a jump to Wednesday, May 30, 2018. The Slovak ambassador is once again welcomed to my cabinet by myself and a collaborator. Now, I'm asking you, where is the flashing light in here? Apart from the report, which I hope can be shared with you, I had nothing else in terms of information. The information that appeared in the press in early March 2018 didn't cause alarm signals to go off with anyone either. There has also been no effect in the media, nor at Parliament's level through parliamentary questions. Many of you saw that I had dozens of parliamentary questions to answer here about every Wednesday. The meeting with the Slovak ambassador apparently did not provide me with any information which should have alerted me. What has my cabinet done about the death of Mr Chovanec? The cabinet therefore requested the police report on 26 February before the death of Mr Chovanec himself in response to the request of the Slovak ambassador for a meeting. From that police report, there's no way to infer that any mistakes would have been made by the police. The report speaks of a difficult arrest of Mr Chovanec and his placement in a cell for the night. After medical verification, the man was able to spend the night in a cell. The report continues that Mr Chovanec had to be calmed at 4:00 a.m. because he caused himself injuries. As Mr Chovanec could not be restrained, emergency services and a doctor were called up. The latter has given the patient a sedative after which Mr. Chovanec lost consciousness, had a cardiac arrest and was stabilised by cardiac massage. That report does not at any time mention the terrible facts that have appeared on the images that have appeared in recent weeks. As said, the ambassador to the cabinet was received March 2nd. On the basis of the police report, an explanation was given for the police action. The cabinet is now being blamed for not acting proactively. That's totally incorrect. Immediately after the ambassador's request for a meeting, my cabinet requested the police report so that I myself could know exactly what had happened that night and inform the ambassador in full transparency. Without that demarche, I would not even have seen that report. There was no reason to doubt the correctness of the content of the police report. I have no built-in suspicion of the police. A police report is not simply questioned. Imagine living in a society in which a higher government should systematically check whether the reports of any administration are correct and would use inspection services to do so, so to speak. It would be unworkable to question standard such reports. What atmosphere should these services work in? The fact that the Slovak ambassador requested a meeting with the minister or his cabinet is not exceptional. On the contrary, it is an ambassador's job to defend the interests of his fellow countrymen. Such a démarche fits perfectly into that. It is also perfectly normal that an ambassador should continue to follow the dossier and that a follow-up meeting took place on 30 May 2018. As we read in the Committee's report of 26 August last, the Ambassador has also been in contact with other federal administrations at several times and directly with the public prosecutor to inform about the progress of the judicial investigation. That's what happened when I was no longer Secretary of State. There was always contact between the Slovak Embassy and the relevant police about the progress of the file through the FPS Foreign Affairs Office. Those contacts took place on 12 March 2018 and also several times in 2019 and 2020. At the time of the first meeting with the Ambassador, we are talking about 2 March. So the file was in the hands of the court. That's one of those checks and balances built into our system of justice and police. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought we were still living in the rule of law. On the basis of the information available in that conscious police report and of which I had no reason to doubt the truth, there was therefore no basis for taking further action on this dossier. I can't just do that either, or I couldn't just do that as Minister of the Interior. With regard to the question of justice, I think that is another important question that could have been open to me, whether or not I myself would have been able to pursue discipline, it should be noted that the competent disciplinary authority was not the Minister of the Interior, but rather the administrative police when it came to the facts as they appeared from the police report. However, ladies and gentlemen, a Minister of the Interior can, under certain conditions, draw up an investigation or disciplinary procedure or, by order measure, suspend certain persons for the time being. But all these possibilities are exceptional procedures, which assume that I, as a minister, have information or facts that justify me taking such additional actions, or which allow me to be disciplined against certain members of the police or to have a measure of order. In other words, it requires clear indications of disciplinary or criminal offences. I didn't have any such information at the time. I repeat, I had no reason to believe that such information existed. Not only were any disciplinary measures to be taken elsewhere, but there were no indications of any further action as Minister of the Interior. In addition, in the context of the open judicial investigation, the disciplinary authorities could write to the judicial authorities, which were now following the file, asking them to keep it informed of facts that might affect the functioning of the police services. The opposite also applies: the court should automatically inform the disciplinary authorities when it encounters elements such as incriminating imagery in the course of its judicial investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the presentation of the timeline, the facts and how the file was known to us in the Cabinet. Of course, I would like to answer additional questions from the committee members. Kristien Van Vaerenberg, President: Thank you very much, Mr Jambon. Mr De Mesmaeker, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u10	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 August 2020 I issued a communiqué because I thought that was necessary. After that, I kept a line. The media has kept pushing and my spokeswoman has no more sleeves, but I've kept a line. I wanted to reserve my further comments, information and explanations for this Parliament. It is very legitimate that the population, the media, the governments, the police and the Chovanec family ask questions about the role of Marc De Mesmaeker in it happened. It's very human that some people have doubts. Rest assured, in this context, I know that frustration tolerance is the longest word in Commissioner General's job description. I also realize that a thorough selection is never and never a final guarantee of infallibility. With these three considerations I take my explanation. Here are all the answers I can give you. In view of the importance, after all, of deep human suffering, I would ask the Presidents to be somewhat lenient in the timing. That is also a matter of respect, I think, you know what I mean. The federal police want to be unanimously recognized as a provider of professional and reliable services by resolutely opting for transparency, collaboration and accountability. I have just quoted the vision of the federal police and I hope that my intervention will live up to it. My presentation revolves around three chapters: first, the factual aspects and this is the first time I have spoken about it; then, a word about the investigations and finally, the future. The two pages I have given to the committee deal primarily and deliberately with this last aspect. In fact, I also point out first of all that one must make a difference between being aware of the facts/police report as delivered to the cabinet and the images. Having said that, where was Marc De Mesmaeker during the drama, what did he know, what did he do and what would he do if he became Commissioner General and what would he do if he became Commissioner General of the images in August 2020? First and foremost, briefly explain. At the time of the drama, I will use that term, I am director-general of the SAT of Home Affairs. SAT is the French abbreviation, which is easier in the mouth, and stands for Secrétariat administrative et technique, ATS in Dutch (Administrative-Technical Secretariat). Don't overdo it, it's a service of about a dozen people that the minister has to support administratively and technically every day. The SAT is not the Kab and the Kab is not the SAT. The cabinet is the minister's political cabinet. The Administrative-Technical Secretariat is an administrative and technical support in many areas. I think you have every right to think about this, both operational and non-operational. In that capacity, in February 2018, what are the answers to the following questions? Am I aware of the facts? Affirmative, and already on 26 February, so even before the death. After all, a cabinet employee informs me by e-mail of the first account of the facts drawn up by the aviation police. I'm not going back to that. The whole content has just been given. That'll buy us time. On March 1, after the death, I take note of the press review of the federal police. That press review is also delivered to SAT Home Affairs and that is seriously read for possible follow-up. That follow-up that day is concrete that one of my employees sends an e-mail to the cabinet. You have also seen it in the media and that mail informs the cabinet staff that there is an article in SudPresse, with the mention "Now also in the press trigger for questions." Understand that we were expecting questions at the SAT, including parliamentary questions, which explains why staff working in the SAT with the parliamentary questions are also in CC of that e-mail. So I was aware of the facts like a lot of people in Belgium. Those who do not read Belga or deredactie.be may read Het Nieuwsblad or Het Laatste Nieuws, L'Avenir, SudPresse or La Dernière Heure, because that was the menu of 28 February and 1 March 2018. It took a tweet to extract the collective memory from under the collective dust. Was I aware of an imminent consular interview? Yes. Did I participate on 2 March 2018? No. Such a thing does not fall within the competence of the SAT but within the competence of the Cabinet. All diplomatic, consular and international activities really belong to the domain of the cabinet. So the police report is in the hands of the cabinet. The SAT draws attention to that press review versus the cabinet. After four years of cooperation, the mechanisms are known by everyone, understand cabinet-SAT. I'd like to open a parenthesis here, because it's not unimportant. I have set the period between the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018 aside from the seven years that I have been director-general of the SAT, for different ministers, different language systems and different political approaches. I must say that there have been few periods in which I have so intensively supported the Minister and his cabinet staff administratively and technically. Let me give you two examples, the second of which is relevant to the Gosselies case. Firstly, we were at the stage of dealing with the sectoral agreement for the staff of the integrated police. That process was going on for two years, and on 30 May, which must be a coincidence, I sat around the table with the trade unions and tried to conclude that long course by means of a protocol: abolishing, as everyone asked, many allowances and allowances, and upgrading the baremas. Secondly, more importantly, what happened on March 2nd? Where was Marc De Mesmaeker on March 2nd? Not on the consular interview. I was in Koksijde at 8:00. That means an early alarm clock. What was I doing there? On request and according to the instructions of the cabinet, I found the integrated police, a substantial delegation from the federal police and an even larger delegation from the Permanent Committee of Local Police. What were we doing there? One day we tried to smooth out the differences between the local and federal police. Disagreements on what? About a preliminary draft of a brand-new disciplinary law. We began that day with an explanatory statement, toutfait, bienfait, in the two languages, and with a draft law of about a hundred articles, toutfait, bienfait, in the two languages, and at the end of the day we found a consensus, as often happens, within the integrated police. Why am I telling you that? Because that 2nd March was a culmination of a project that SAT and Kab had set up for weeks, months before, to put the new disciplinary law into the circuit, perhaps on the initiative of the two guardian ministers. In other words, at some point certain cabinet employees knew the disciplinary law and all the possibilities I am not going to give them credit as well as SAT staff and as I personally have, because I personally drew that file and provided all the administrative and technical support in that file. And again, that law was going to be a complete makeover, and we were going to change all aspects: the difference between high and low disciplinary penalties, the difference between ordinary and higher disciplinary authorities, simplify the procedure, change the law of evocation, change the powers of the Disciplinary Board. It was a total makeover and the cabinet knew equally well the old, current, law of 1999 and the new design. You note that the SAT is not in possession of the consular verbal note. You note that the SAT does not know what was said at the consular meetings on 2 March and 30 May. I think I've done my job and more than that. And to put it more bluntly, I firmly believe that I acted correctly, transparently, accurately and in accordance with the KB SAT of 15 January 2001. I would also like to stress that the SAT does not have any authority over the federal police, and cannot and should not interfere in its management powers and procedures. In this way, I could reasonably and in good faith expect that each level and body concerned would have dealt with this matter in accordance with the processes and procedures in place and – moreover – known. It is with the same reasonable conviction that I have begun my mandate as Commissioner General. So when I become Commissioner General, I can reasonably and in good faith assume that everyone has done their job, again, with the facts as they are known in the police report and the press review. I do not think that anyone who starts a top job as Commissioner-General should go into all the factual files, including the many heavy files, like a monk, to find out whether everything has been done by everyone. No, he or she is going to work politically. Moreover, in my reprise/remise with the Commissioner-General ad interim, which makes the bridge between 1 May, the departure date of the previous Commissioner-General, and mid June, when the new Commissioner-General takes up his duties, there is no mention of the dossier, nor is there any mention of it in my first bilateral talks with the Director-General of the Administrative Police. Moreover, and it may still surprise some, the Commissioner-General is only a slim discipline, according to the law of 13 May 1999. I am only disciplined over my own staff of my own Commissioner-General, and that counts about 2,700 people. For the personnel of the aviation police, according to the police report 2018, the disciplinary power lies exclusively with the general management of the administrative police. As Commissioner-General, I do have some other powers. Among other things, I have a margin of discretion for certain measures of order, such as transferring someone from one general management to another. By the way, you will find an illustration of this in my decision of 21 August 2020 by which I transferred the director of the aviation police by order measure. Third, was I aware of the footage? No. Neither then, in February-March 2018, nor at my appointment as Commissioner-General, nor at the ministerial exchange. Now, being aware, my services have immediately requested access to the judicial file and the internal investigation is well under way. I'll get back to you on that. I read and hear here and there that it can't be that Marc De Mesmaeker wouldn't have known anymore. Again, the doubt has its legitimacy, but it can, because it is. Searches in my calendars and email archives confirm that. As former Director-General SAT, as current Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, and as Marc De Mesmaeker, I am telling you that I can look the Chovanec family straight in the eye. I would like to do that literally, by the way, because I know what nightmare she has been going through for more than two years now, of course, in so far as that family would be open to it. The way things are turned around, I am now Commissioner General of the Federal Police. I'm the boss of my associates now. I am now in charge of those staff members who acted on behalf of the Belgian Federal Police in Gosselies in 2018, except for one staff member who has meanwhile made mobility to a local area. Whether I want it or not, I'm identified with that case, with that drama. Furthermore, I am well aware that I am part of the Belgian authority representation at the highest level of administration in my office. And then from an authority department that has the monopoly of violence. That rational sense, coupled with my heart, makes me do that gesture, reach out to the family. I take advantage of being here, because I can imagine the people's representatives wondering what that is all about with the federal police. I think, I know that now thousands of federal police staff are saying, "Good job, chief! Do, because that's what we want to do!" And if I reach out one hand to the Chovanec family, I'll actually reach out to thousands. Maybe we're bumping into a refusal, even a blunt refusal, and I can understand that. Or maybe that contact will continue, and that will be a very embarrassing and uncomfortable moment for me. But what then to say what that moment would be for that family, who takes the outstretched hand from the Belgian federal police? Now we all have to clarify as quickly as possible, on the one hand through the judicial investigation and, on the other hand, certainly also seek answers through our internal administrative inquiry on the following question, and that brings me to the fourth question: is it really, really, that no one in the political groups I hold to the politicians who had, had or still had images and who would never have looked at them? Suppose someone looked at them, what did they do with them? I cannot give you an answer to that at this time, but I would like a clear and unambiguous answer to that. So much for the billing part. In my view, what needs to be said is what has already been said about the judicial investigation. I'm waiting for the trial. It's also a medical issue. So I am waiting for the judicial investigation, and I realize that it is a humanly difficult period for the next of kin, but also for my staff, and for some even a hellish one. However, I cannot and cannot say more about this. I will now proceed to our internal investigation. With regard to the internal investigation, access to the judicial file was granted on 20 August 2020. On Monday, August 24, our consultations and analyses began at the Registry. This concerns 1,600 pages. According to information from the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police (DGA), this analysis is carried out. It is now up to the DGA – and its Director General – to take the necessary action on the basis of this analysis. This means that he has four options: he decides on a classification without action, he decides that a proposal for a light disciplinary sanction is required, he decides to launch a procedure for heavy sanctions, he asks for additional hearings to complete information that would be incomplete. This survey has two components: individual behaviours during police intervention in 2018 and organizational and operational aspects. In view of the vision of the federal police, which I have just quoted, you will understand why I place these two components on the same footing in terms of importance. It is simply about the public's confidence in the police and the efficiency of its operation under the supervision of the authorities. I fully appreciate the vital importance of this. The internal investigation, as the Minister of Security and the Interior has already said, will be conducted in a professional, diligent, transparent, detailed and objective manner. Be convinced of it! Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the monitoring investigation initiated by the P Committee on 28 August, I quote 'the flow of information following Mr Chovanec's arrest', it will be ensured that double use is avoided, bearing in mind that these two investigations have a different finality. So you now have a monitoring study by the P Committee, which aims to make recommendations for better functioning. We have an internal administrative inquiry, the aim of which is to see whether a disciplinary procedure is required. It's about the same facts, about the same people, but with different finality. One will serve as matter for another, but we must be careful not to mix things. Still about this internal investigation, I hear and read and see the social outrage and I can understand it. The call for immediate punishment is resounding. The demand for the positioning of the federal police summit remains, even in this forum, that I heard last week. But conducting an internal investigation professionally means respecting the rights of the defense. The disciplinary authorities will assume their responsibilities, but in accordance with the laws adopted in the parliamentary hemisphere. It's not once and the other time it doesn't follow the rules at all. Thirdly, all of us must not forget the conceptual, the content. Who shouldn't we forget? Who am I supposed to forget? Those are my associates, my colleagues in the field. After all, I am particularly expected to work on the same substance in such a crisis. I refer to my two pages, which I submitted in writing to the committee. What do I want to say? Urgentness is absolutely necessary for the difficult and delicate problem of the excited delirium syndrome or EDS, in which we must act multidisciplinaryly in solidarity. There's no alternative. We must help our people, but also society. We'll do that, along with the local police, I promise. Besides, in the coming month, September, the High Consultative Committee will be meeting for that. Quant au flux d'informations.............................................................................................................................. Information that comes at the right time and level allows good management. In this context, in the second quarter of 2018 and 2019, I issued a number of clear instructions on how, as Commissioner General, I wish to be kept informed of my organisation's daily life, whether operational or not. I recalled these instructions again on 21 August. Those are my instructions, not my predecessor's. I'm saving myself from speaking in her name, of course, but I do have this. In the line of the administrative police on 23 and 24 February, if there had been an immediate notification to the national permanentity DAO, as the notes prescribed, we might possibly have had another settlement. After all, what does DAO do with such information? They put them in about seventy alert texts, which are sent everywhere, even extra muros, and or in the following daily report, which is delivered via 80 mails everywhere, even extra muros. It is difficult to get past this simple determination. Adequate risk management and intervention management requires appropriate supervision. This is particularly true of the role of the administrative police officer, who can carry out and carry out his important tasks only by having all the information on police intervention. On 21 August, I ended the full discretion with regard to the assumptions that the officer must personally visit the premises by giving the following instruction: from now on, the administrative police officer (OPA) is required to visit the premises in the event of any attack on the physical integrity of a person, whether he is a citizen or a colleague. Business processes are one thing, the behaviour of our police officers is another. As I have communicated quite recently, and I repeat, integrity work inevitably involves encouraging staff to dare to speak. I repeat: to speak to refer to it, to speak to each other and to encourage one another to respect our rules and our values. All leaders play an important role in this regard. In addition, my integrated service – made up in particular of people of integrity, in compliance with the law of 15 September 2013 – is constantly working there. Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by addressing myself, perhaps somewhat mistakenly, to my colleagues with the story of the 99% good guys and the magnifying glass on the other 1%. That's the way the world works. Micro devours macro, that's what it's called. It is a second sledgehammer in a short time for all employees of the integrated police. But I know you. I know our resilience. I don't doubt that for a second. I had and maintain a great faith in all of you. And that 1% gets mine, but also your attention. Let's take responsibility for that together. I repeat: inappropriate behaviour or statements must always and everywhere be followed up. Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, with once again a special thought for the Chovanec family and fully in line with the views of the federal police, I have started with these two aspects and I will continue to be consciously at your disposal. I know that thousands of my employees are there day and night, and that's no different from the local police. Thank you. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: Thank you, Mr De Mesmaeker. You provided our committee secretariat with two pages. The committee members will be able to consult them online via the extranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the invitation because it gives me the opportunity to answer your questions directly. Like any well-thinking citizen and, I am fully convinced, every well-thinking policeman has seen with horror the images of intervention with unexplained behaviour by policemen. I sincerely offer my condolences to Mr Chovanec's wife and to the members of his family. There must be clear answers in this case to a number of questions that are being asked. Firstly, for the wife of Mr Chovanec and his family, but also for the integrated police services and the policemen who give the best of themselves day and night and who, through this case, are in a bad light. For the sake of completeness, I must inform you that on 1 May 2018 I left the Belgian federal police and since then no longer have access to police information and/or police data related to my previous position. Nor do I have any authority over Belgian police officers since then, and the information I will now give is based on communication with my employees from back then and on elements that have recently been made public. The first question is, what did I know? I can tell you quite openly and honestly that I was not informed of the facts and that these facts should have been brought to my attention. Neither are the images shown to me nor the contents of the images communicated to me. If this had been the case, I would have taken immediate action, as I had to do several times in the past, when I was Commissioner General. The second question is: what is the normal procedure after such an incident? In the event of incidents, the police officers concerned shall inform the officer of the judicial police and, if necessary, the officer of the administrative police. They contact the parquet and in addition to the instructions they have asked internally, they also ask for instructions from the parquet floor. Those instructions shall be carried out. In this case, the parquet would have decided, among other things, to confiscate the images. The search has started once all these steps have been carried out. When the investigation begins, the secret of the investigation must be respected. What else is planned besides the internal? There is a procedure established by the Infoflux Note in 2015 to report such incidents through the Directorate-General for Administrative Police. This Directorate-General is responsible, inter alia, for the aviation police. I can only conclude that the information of the facts has not reached me. As I said earlier, I would have taken action if necessary. I am therefore counting on the internal investigation to show why the existing procedure has not worked, particularly why no one has reported the events to me. I would also like to say a few words about the press release that was published at the time. If police incidents are discussed in a press release and we read that the public prosecutor is conducting an investigation into the circumstances of this intervention, I quote: "Une survey a été ouverte pour vérifier que la procédure a bien été respectée par la police fédérale aéroportuaire, précise encore le parquet de Charleroi." Then we can assume that the action of the police will be thoroughly investigated and that disciplinary action will be informed, if necessary. This press article also shows that an investigative judge was apprehended after the bourgeois election. If one reads the press release of today, after the recently published video footage and with that video footage in mind, then this press release will of course have a completely different dimension. Fourth question: how can disciplinary proceedings be initiated within the administrative police in the event of such an incident? The first possibility exists for the director who becomes aware of possible disciplinary offences and initiates a procedure himself. The second possibility is the following: if disciplinary offences are detected in a judicial file, the disciplinary authority may/should be informed by the judicial authorities. If the Disciplinary Board wishes to initiate a disciplinary investigation into disciplinary offences within a judicial investigation, the Disciplinary Board may request access to the court in charge of the investigation. In such an incident, the legislator has determined that the disciplinary procedure is to be fully handled within the Directorate-General, in this case administrative police, and does not give the Commissioner-General any disciplinary powers in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the images of the inexplicable behaviour of police officers who were sent into the world on 19 August have hurt me enormously. Like many colleagues, I joined the police to serve people and society. Those who have read interviews from me, those who have worked or worked with me, know that human rights, equality, integrity and respect for the rule of law are central to the way in which I have led the federal police. I have put this into practice in several areas, but I would like to mention a number of them here: a diversity policy, an integrity policy, human rights training in cooperation with the Dossin barracks in Mechelen, with the emphasis on dilemma training and with the emphasis on the danger of dealing with power and authority, the change of basic training, a specific follow-up of all the recommendations of the P Committee by the Audit Service at the Commissioner General. Despite all these initiatives, unfortunately, there is no guarantee of value-driven behaviour by all policemen. However, I am convinced that the police are doing their job with respect for these values, despite the totally unacceptable and reprehensible behaviour of individuals. I'm ready to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: We shall now proceed to the debate. I have heard Prime Minister Jambon say that it would be good if the police report were made available to Parliament. However, it is necessary to examine whether this can be done in the current state of the judicial investigation. Services checked this out. We can, of course, always request that document from Minister De Crem and he will then decide whether he can transfer it to Parliament at this stage of the judicial investigation. I assume the committee agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to thank the three people for their speech, which has given some clarity in a sad matter. I do not have to speak on behalf of all the political groups, but I assume they will also join in the deep feelings about the suffering suffered by the Chovanec family. Whatever the outcome of these or further investigations, one decision will and can never be made, in particular that Mr Chovanec has earned it, under no circumstances. This means that the family and society, especially after this long time, are entitled to clarity in this matter. Everyone will agree that it has taken far too long. The vast majority of policemen are also entitled to clarity, because they are in danger of being dragged into a negative spiral. The fact that a death is to be regretted here is an emotional matter, and it is not without difficulty, but I will do my best to call for an analytical approach to this matter. After all, we are looking for a good friend who is in danger of being lost, in particular: the truth. The serenity we must exercise here must guide us today. We are and say that we are a rule of law, and I would like to give you three elements in that regard. I can assume that all my fellow Members agree with those three elements. Firstly, we have decided that the monopoly of violence is given to the government. This means that there must also be clear control of this, otherwise an agreement will of course go wrong. Secondly, also a constitutional principle, one is guilty only after facts have shown it. When allocating blame, we can never be frivolous because, for example, the professional integrity of people is at stake here. Of course, if we have to follow rules on the designation of culprits, we must also ensure that innocent people are never dragged into the same bathtub. We must punish who should and above all not punish who should not be punished. The third rule of law is the separation of powers. That is a good principle because it is through separation the powers that a particular investigation can be controlled by someone other than their own environment. These are the checks-and-balances that should give us, for example, the necessary guarantees for the transfer of the force monopoly to the government. What are the issues that are of the utmost importance here? First of all, the police report. This has been published in the media. Even extracts have been published, or perhaps even the whole report has been published. From everything we know, it indicates that what the press has said about this was not so wrong. But of course it would be only right that we should have the full and correct text here. In any case, and all the speakers have pointed this out, there was no indication in that police report that the unfortunate death of the victim would be the result of an incorrect police action. The rule is, of course, that an official report is believed until it turns out to be wrong. I do not think we can reverse this; I do not think we should distrust every official report until it is proven to be correct. For then we have a fundamental distrust of the institutions. But that shouldn't make us naive. Because a police report can also be incomplete. It might hide, or it might even hurt the truth. There is that possibility. That is why it is very important that there should be a second element, in addition to that police report, that there was also a judicial inquiry, which has already been referred to many times. This means that in February-March 2018 the Chovanec file was not classified. It's important to give. The Chovanec file has been put aside until we were told what the control investigation, the judicial investigation, would be, and possibly indicate that the police investigation was not correct. There are still elements. There are the two visits of the Ambassador to the Interior, one in the presence of the Minister. There are a number of press releases, I believe on the basis of a press release from the public prosecutor, at the very beginning of the situation. There is also, I believe, an announcement from the police. On this basis, I would like to ask the people concerned the following questions. I believe that they are of the utmost importance to be able to see the forest between the trees and not drown us in matters that would lead us to the truth. The first question I ask is all three. The questions I put to Mr Jambon relate, of course, only to the period between February and December 2018. Mrs De Bolle was, I thought, employed until 1 May 2018. Mr De Mesmaeker may be involved in this matter in two functions, as it were indirectly. My first question, to all three, is: have you received any relevant information at any time that gave rise to doubts as to the accuracy of the police report drawn up? I shall repeat that fact to all three people: have you been informed at any time in the course of the investigation, which you all three were aware was being conducted, by the public prosecutor of any facts which would give rise to a re-examination of the police report and any additional disciplinary proceedings? Have you been briefed on this at any time? If so, when, by whom and in what way? Mr Jambon, twice the Slovak ambassador has been in contact with your cabinet. You were present once. In the meantime, you have again requested information from people who were there. A very simple question: did the Slovak ambassador ask for information or did the Slovak ambassador provide you with information? By this I mean again: relevant information, which contradicts the correctness of the police report he has been informed of, and which could possibly give you reason not to assume it? My third question has in fact been answered, but I will put it again to the two policemen, even though they have already answered in detail. Who was the discipline in this case? I would like to make this quite clear: I believe that this can be answered quite quickly and technically: when exactly does disciplinary action take place? I repeat what I said earlier, taking disciplinary measures against people is a far-reaching matter in which one cannot act lightly. There are rules and procedures to be followed. Who's the discipline? Who's gonna tell them? On what basis can it possibly take action? Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, if at no time has relevant information reached either the police or the minister who questioned the validity of that police report, if that is the answer, then the work of this committee should continue. In the meantime, we know that the report was certainly not sound. We know that fact today. Then I think we should look further, because then the problem is not there for the three people who have been invited here. Then I think we should continue our work, because this matter is so important in its consequences that we will have to complete this track and meet others here, in order to answer the question as to why they did not inform those who could have acted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u13	Madam President, I would like to thank the three guests for the explanation they have given. Colleagues, there's been a death following a police action. I think everyone agrees that this always requires a thorough investigation. Always, in all circumstances. In a democratic rule of law, this should always be a priority and examined with the utmost care. Any attempt to wipe it under the mat needs to be dealt with as hard as possible. I hear from your statements, the investigation will have to prove that you were apparently unaware of all the elements and that there was a difference between what was shown on the images and what was put on paper. That calls on me to suspect that there have been attempts to sweep and minimize a number of things. This is bad. That would damage the image of our police. This undermines the confidence of our people in the police. We also know how far international it is: it has been all over the news on the BBC, The New York Times, the debates in Slovakia. We're gonna be a really bad guy. Many people wonder why there is only a shot in such a case, when the images leak. This isn't the first time. In Jonathan Jacob's case, it was the same. The file was in the wreckage. There's only movement in it once the footage came out. Do we want to live in such a society, such a rule of law, in which justice, police and policy-makers only really take action when images are leaked and we actually have to do something that cannot and should not be done? Just to get the file moving. Those are the fundamental questions we need to ask ourselves. After the examination of the P Committee and the investigating judge, we will get answers, but there is something structural wrong with the system, with regard to the way in which the justice system deals with these matters. There is also a structural error in the way in which information flows within the federal police. I think the examples are very clear. I have questions for all three of you. I would like to start with Mr Jambon. You have already given different versions of what you and your cabinet knew or didn't know. It is remarkable to us that you did not remember this case, nor did you remember the meeting with the Slovak ambassador. I don't think there's a lot of ambassadors coming to visit the Ministry of the Interior. So if that happens in connection with a file of a fellow countryman who died after a police intervention, then these are not fatal divers who just come on the agenda and disappear again. I think this should attract the greatest attention from the cabinet and from the minister. By the way, you said that you were already informed on 1 March 2018. That's also a new element. You were also present at the second meeting. It is always said that the notes received from the police continue. Those notes were incomplete. We may have to see that in the future. But there is an ambassador who will come and raise the alarm. Apparently, he does have data. He knows that this has gone very violent. There is a first maintenance and then a second. What happened between the first and second maintenance? Weren't you worried about the embassy's first intervention? Did this not require further investigation, to ask for more information? You may have prepared a note following the second meeting, with answers to questions. Such a meeting is not unprepared. Then what exactly happened in the meantime? Didn't it ring a bell that there was more to it than what was claimed in the documents? Mr Minister, we look forward to the documents that I hope we will get. You also refer to the report that has been drawn up and forwarded to your cabinet, quite shortly after the facts. That report's already circulating. If I take a good look at this, the report delivered to the cabinet is quite clear that the police in Charleroi were informed that the person concerned had mental problems and had not taken the medicines at 11.30 p.m. that night. That was known at 11:30 p.m. and it's in the police report that was drawn up and delivered to your cabinet. In other words, they knew there was a medical problem. The further investigation will have to show what happened, but doesn't that ring a bell, along with the ambassador's alarm call, that there has to be some deeper digging into this file and there may be more going on than what is in the reports? But that was clearly stated! You were aware of that. The sixth question is what initiatives have been taken. The chronology you give, Minister, both on Saturday at your press conference and today, ends on 30 May. The question is what happened after May 30th. Is the file closed with you? Was that case closed after the last interview with the ambassador, or has there been any further investigation? After all, new information was received on 4 July in your cabinet via Foreign Affairs. This was also apparent from the chronology of a few days ago. What else did you do with the file, or did you just classify it, despite several signals that were already there and that pointed out that something was wrong? One final question for you, Mr Jambon. In the past, the P Committee has made many important recommendations on police action. I referred just now to the Jonathan Jacob case on which a follow-up report was made. As a result, many recommendations have been made on how to deal with such a very difficult situation. There has also been a report 2017 on police violence. The question is what happened to all these recommendations. What have you, as a minister, as responsible, but also the police summit, so that question can just as well be put to Mr De Mesmaeker in concrete terms with those recommendations? Which were executed and which were not, and why? That is how I come to Mr Demesmaeker. What is incomprehensible to many people is the response of the police summit, or should I say the lack of response, both shortly after the facts and now, since the images came to light. One policewoman has received a preventive measure, pending disciplinary investigation, but the others have been able to continue to work, while their behaviour is totally unacceptable. That's what we're seeing on the footage. For two and a half years they have been working, while they may not all be very suitable for the job. Why don't you stand up to them, Mr. De Mesmaeker? Why do these people get to keep working? How can you maintain the confidence of the citizen if every citizen ends up in a cell if two and a half years after the facts continue to work in the same place? Even on the premises, with the police, people don't understand that. There's a lot of anger, not only among the people, but also the many police officers I know and tell me they don't understand. You declared confidence in the 99% good versus those 1% rotten apples. I do hope it is only 1%, but after the messages in the facebook group I start to doubt the percentage; I hope not. The 99% good agents, who are at the disposal of the population day and night, perform their job in conscience and in the right way, also do not understand what is going on. It also embellishes their image, while today they also have to pick up people on the ground and continue to enjoy the trust of the people. So we need a more powerful signal. Of course, you must follow the laws and therefore respect the disciplinary procedures. However, you must act more vigorously in the short term to ensure the credibility of your service. I have the following specific questions. First, you were aware of the facts of your role in the SAT, which you explained. You have explained that your services have pointed out to the cabinet that the matter may give rise to parliamentary questions and commotion. If you do that reflection, does that mean that you also have questions about the file and that you want to know what happened? What did you do with that reflection? Did you advise the Cabinet to investigate the matter further? Have you made contact with the hierarchy higher up and given signals to the Commissioner-General, for example? Did you not start to ring a bell that other initiatives should be taken? What do you think is normal practice when such facts occur, for example at an airport? What information should be provided by whom? Was the director of the airport police aware of the facts? Was he aware of the footage? If so, how come things stuck there and didn't flow to higher up? If there are images, aren't they automatically retrieved and watched? I believe you know perfectly which cells or places have cameras. If a dead person has fallen, why aren't the images systematically called up and made a priority job of investigating them somewhere in the hierarchy? That should be the rule, Commissioner-General. We may even have to decide at some point that if a person dies after a police operation, the P Committee should be systematically involved. We will have to have that discussion in another place. But why not systematically carry out very thorough investigations into such incidents? I have one last question for you. What's next with the aviation police? There is a structural problem with the aviation police and we have known this since the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016. There are also some problems in the airport police and in Zaventem. Perhaps this will be reaffirmed in the report of the P Committee. The service drags a past along, think of the problems with changes from a few years ago. So what will you do with the Air Force Service? There is certainly a problem on the ground, both organisationally and structurally. I also have a few questions for Mrs De Bolle. Mrs De Bolle, the director of the aviation police had a double role: he was involved in different ways, in different positions. Why wasn't the file passed on to a colleague of another department? That person himself could not take disciplinary action or take an initiative, as he himself was responsible as a responsible officer for the night in question. Why has not a number of measures been taken in this respect? That question remains open. How do you think the footage never ended up with you? How is it possible, in such a police organization, that things are stopped somewhere? That is the essence of the questions. In the police, a lot of attention is paid to violence control. There are, among other things, training courses in the police schools. But what was the role of those responsible? Were they involved in the analysis of the facts in Charleroi? Did they see the footage? Have they been able to give feedback to police officers in the field on how they acted? If we attach such importance to the control of violence, which is important in training and in the formation of posters, then it is important that those responsible are involved. My question is very specific: I do not know which of you can answer them, Mrs De Bolle or Mr De Mesmaeker, what their role in the dossier was and whether they were analysing the situation. That would have taught us a great deal, and that would have caused the information to go much faster and that signals had been given that it had gone completely wrong. That is something that has not yet been discussed, but which I have a lot of questions about. So far, Madam President, a number of reservations, but also a lot of questions. I certainly hope, Commissioner General, that you will perhaps be a little more strongly mandated by Parliament later this afternoon to act harder and to take clear action in the interests of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u14	There was probably a misunderstanding. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, chairman: We first cross all the groups and we return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u15	Was that the deal? Kristien Van Vaerenbergh , Chair: Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u16	I continue to say that the operation is not correct. I wanted to reiterate my point, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u17	Mr Jambon, your defense system and your story are not credible. They are not credible for at least three reasons. The first reason is a general reason that relates to the whole. A few days ago, you didn't remember anything! And from "I don't remember anything," you're telling us today that your firm has worked perfectly and managed the case well. In between, a miscommunication! How can a person in charge of your level, then Minister of the Interior and today Minister-President of the Flemish Region, explain to us that this was a miscommunication? No, Mr. Jambon, in general, you have approached this issue very lightly. Most certainly, from the lightness on the background of the case at the time, in 2018, but even more so when your responsibility was proven as a result of revelations of a number of visual elements. The second reason why you are not credible: you have been the songwriter of the adage "need to know, need to share". It was in another commission, an important commission of inquiry, during which you told us that the essential thing in the management of the police in general is the need to know and the need to share. Here you have explained to us that you have received a lacuna report in a very particular and tragic context - the death of a man, in troubled circumstances° - and in a more general context of diplomatic démarches from a foreign state concerned about the fate that had been reserved for one of his nationals. You who were the singer of "we need to know and we need to share", you tell us: "You know, I only had a lacunary report" in the context that I just recalled. Obviously, you have contented yourself with this incomplete report. I come to the third reason why you're not credible. You say you received the ambassador on 30 May, adding that at the end of this interview, you did not feel it necessary to apply an important legal provision, section 26 of the Police Function Act, which allows you to refer the matter to the disciplinary authority. This article does not apply if you have evidence of a disciplinary transgression, but from the moment you consider, as Minister of the Interior, that the facts of which you have become aware may constitute one. That's for the 30th of May! You cannot ignore these facts, because they have been taken back in the press. I hope that he has found himself in your office to prepare for the meeting with the Ambassador of Slovakia and to inform you that on 27 February Mr Chovanec's wife filed a complaint - by filing a civil suit - in the hands of an investigating judge for assault. We are talking about February 27, so three months before. In other words, a criminal complaint is brought in the hands of an investigating judge, with a civil suit. Three months later, you meet the Ambassador of Slovakia, who is concerned about what happened to his national and who can be imagined to have been informed by Mrs Chovanec or her relatives – or by a consular authority, in short by another source. However, you state that at that time, in your opinion, you do not have sufficient elements to seize disciplinary authority, as required by section 26 of the Police Function Act. It's not credible, Mr. Jambon, it's not credible! You didn't do what was in your power at that time! There is another element on which it is essential to come back: who was aware of what in your firm? In other words, we need to know more about the members of your firm. I understand that a collaborator first intervened, then his superior. What has been their relationship with the police in order to best inform their minister? In the account there are still, of course, some whites that will have to be filled. That is a question I will ask Mr. From Mesmaeker. I admit I didn't quite understand your long digression. It was obviously important since it was long. It consisted of saying that you had spent a lot of time with cabinet members thinking about disciplinary reforms. Therefore, on the basis of these lengthy exchanges, there could no longer be any mystery, with regard to law and disciplinary procedures in police matters, for the ten members of the cabinet. What do you mean, Mr. De Mesmaeker? What message should we understand? In your opinion, since the observatory which is yours, with the responsibility which is yours today but also that of the time, it would have been necessary, at the level of the cabinet, to propose to the Minister of the Interior, to initiate a disciplinary investigation, seizing the disciplinary authority of course, considering that they might have had enough elements to do so. You also recalled that, as far as you are concerned, you did not participate in the meetings with the diplomat, so this is a fact. It was very interesting. Is it also necessary to understand, implicitly but with certainty, that you give this contact with the ambassador sufficient importance only to trigger the application of section 26 of the Police Function Act and, therefore, to lead, Mr.Minister, to refer the matter to disciplinary authority? We also need to know more, Mr. De Mesmaeker, about your relationship with the airport police, what we call LPA. You are in charge at certain times... You are basically the interface: support, technical support. What contacts have you developed in your former position, with the airport police, both at the level of Gosselies and at the central level? I imagine your interlocutors are the central services at the base, to get as much information back as possible. Why this question? Because you recalled that your services are sending a message to the firm that says: "Warning! Attention, possible parliamentary question!" It was in the press, anyway. From this particular attention, you probably expect the firm to react and say that indeed, the death of a man, visibly as part of a police intervention – and at this point, we will stick to your version of things – does not happen every day. We must be informed as much as possible. So, what means have you given yourself to that effect? I am of course asking the same question to Mr Jambon and to the cabinet of the time. After receiving a message informing you that parliamentarians might question you on the matter, what means have you given yourself to inform yourself as best you can? In this regard, Mrs De Bolle, you have given an important sentence which has not escaped me. You said, "I, as Commissioner General, should have been informed." By whom exactly should you have been informed? Which service, which official has thus failed to fulfil his duty of information? Who should have informed you at both the hierarchical and operational levels? The outline you have given us – and I thank you for that – does not contain any details of the continuum. Mr. You and De Mesmaeker spoke of the important role that the administrative police play. We're gonna have to focus on this police. For what reasons did the police, on the basis of the evidence available to them, not consider it useful to inquire into the circumstances either? In fact, were they aware of the circumstances? The above question refers us to other questions, which it may be difficult to examine today, but which we will certainly have to consider some day: who saw the images? When were these images seen? What was their content? We need to know how long the recording lasted, what was in the whole recording and who saw the recording. Of course, it can be assumed that these images were seen by the investigators in charge of the judicial investigation. However, we need more information. Who are the federal police in charge of disciplinary matters and compliance? Who took the case immediately before passing it on to the courts? Has the justice system seized all these elements from the outset or has it seized only one copy of them? In short, we need to know how far information on the circumstances of the tragedy has been provided and what has happened to this information at the various levels of responsibility. How far did they – or did they not – trace the information? That is what this is all about. What concerns us here is whether there has been inertia or impunity. In both cases, there is a problem, of a different gravity. That is why, Madam President, we will make a number of proposals that will allow us to pursue further. I referred to article 26 on disciplinary sanctions. Mr Jambon, you will have to tell us whether it is every day, as Minister of the Interior, that you have been given to meet an ambassador who is concerned about the fate of one of his nationals – who led to his death – in the context of a complaint lodged with an investigating judge and that, despite all this, you no longer have the memory of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u18	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by expressing my group's condolences to the victim and, above all, to the victim's family, but I would also like to stress that we regret that the reputation of so many police officers that day in, day out of work, in very difficult circumstances, is smeared by the mistakes of some people. Firstly, there is a big difference between being aware of the police report on the one hand and being aware of the shocking images that we have only recently seen. My first question coincides with Mr De Mesmaeker's fourth question. I ask three clear, concrete questions. First of all, who had that footage in his possession? Second of all, who had seen that footage before? Third, who was supposed to see that footage? What went wrong there? Why didn't you get those images in your possession in time? Why didn't you see the footage? Whose fault is that? What procedures have not been followed so that these images have not been taken and viewed by the necessary persons? If there is any difference between the police report and the facts as we have seen on the footage, we have no reason to believe that what you have said here today would not be true............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ You yourself have said that it is crucial to obtain this police report. It would have been helpful if we had already had this in our possession before today. It would be useful for this debate to be conducted calmly and to draw the correct conclusions in order to obtain it as soon as possible. As far as the facts are concerned, there are still many things that are not clear. In my view, it is also crucial to identify the control mechanisms that have apparently not worked well, and what you intend to do about them in the future, in order to ensure that this control is indeed followed. It is very important to wait for the trial to take place, but, like last week, we can still wonder how it is possible, for God's sake, that this investigation has been dragging on for so long. This is not just the case in this very tragic case, but in many cases in our country where families, victims, have to wait years for answers. This is unacceptable in a modern country in the twenty-first century in Belgium. Finally, I would like to ask colleagues not to make a witch hunt out of this, but to find out to the bone what exactly went wrong here and who has been responsible for the mistakes that have been made in this case. Apart from party cards and government negotiations, we need to investigate what went wrong and see what we can do better in the future. In the interests of the family, to ensure that this very tragic death has not been for nothing, but also in the interests of our police forces whose reputation has been heavily tainted and who carry out their job properly on other days in very difficult circumstances, with respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u19	Madam President, Mr President, Mrs Europol's Executive Director, Commissioner General, I thank you for your presence this morning in the Committee on Justice and the Interior. Last week, we met urgently about the images of the police intervention on Mr. Chovanec's person at Charleroi airport. These have given rise to the legitimate indignation of all of us here. Together with Ministers Geens and De Crem, we have had the opportunity to clarify certain factual and chronological elements. In particular, we wanted to know what the authorities were informed of the tragedy at the time and what follow-up they had given him. Nevertheless, these exchanges and statements have revealed new questions. Here are a few of them: Minister De Crem told us, Mr Jambon, that unlike your initial statements in the press, you have – at least your office – been made aware of this intervention. We heard your explanations this Saturday, Mr. Jambon. You confirmed that your firm was kept informed of this intervention. But you don't remember. A judicial investigation is under way. You had to respect the principle of separation of powers, of course, and we understand that. However, did there exist, in your prerogatives, a possibility of internal disciplinary proceedings parallel to judicial proceedings, yes or no? The answer is yes! We understand from your intervention that the incomplete nature of the report did not allow for the initiation of disciplinary proceedings. However, when you learned of Mr. Chovanec's death, was it not worth asking for more information? Has this been achieved? Minister De Crem told us that he was not informed of this matter when he took office. Mr Jambon, Mrs De Bolle, Mr De Mesmaeker, to whom is it incumbent to brief a Minister of the Interior who takes up his duties in this type of case without prejudice to the judicial investigation? Minister De Crem suggested that the Federal Police was aware of the incident: "The current Commissioner General informed me that the Federal Police Protocol Officer had been informed on 27 February at 6:42 p.m. and the Slovak Ambassador's note was also communicated to the Federal Police. The federal police were also aware of the incident but not of the video images. The incident was also mentioned in the press review of the Federal Police. I am convinced that the press reviews are read by all interested members of the police services and leaders. As to what action is being taken internally by senior police officials to deal with this information, I do not know." Mrs De Bolle, Mr De Mesmaeker, can you tell us more about the follow-up you have given to this information? The newspaper De Morgen was able to obtain the report on the police arrest of Jozef Chovanec. The document would ignore many crucial elements. Nowhere is it written that Chovanec's face was buried in a blanket or that agents sat on his back for several minutes, so he could no longer breathe. The report also stalemates Hitler's salvation. De Morgen also notes a difference between the narrative of the operation on the aircraft and on the tarmac, which contains many details, while the continuation is only the subject of eleven lines. Mrs De Bolle, Mr De Mesmaeker, how do you explain these differences? Are there any elements that you think have been ignored? Is this hypothesis likely? If so, for what reasons? What measures do you think can be taken to improve the quality of the reports, so that they reflect the reality as closely as possible? How can such a difference in treatment no longer be noted in such a report? Orderly measures have recently been taken after the images were released, that is, two years after the facts! The availability of images could, in fact, be systematically included in two lines in all reports. These are two important indicative questions, which are already a reflex for many police officers. Are there any images that can be used in an investigation? Yes or no. Do you consider it useful to exploit them and why? Yes or no. Has in-house information experienced transmission problems? If so, what are they? How can this be addressed? Are they solely due to a lack of precision in the report? Directive MFO-3 of 2002 on the management of the information of the judicial police and the administrative police specifies the procedure to be followed in the transmission of information. Indeed, the collection of information related to the occurrence of an event likely to require action by the administrative authority is of concrete interest to transmit the reports. Have the information been provided pursuant to this Directive? With regard to the images of the police intervention in the cell, Mrs De Bolle, Mr De Mesmaeker, can you tell us clearly who, within the federal police force, had seen them before their intentional release by Mr Chovanec's widow and lawyer? What has been done with this information? With regard to the young policeman who made a Nazi greeting, we learned that she was 22 years old at the time of the events – which does not excuse the gesture – and that it was her first assignment. Mrs De Bolle, Mr De Mesmaeker, is it optimal for the first assignment of a police officer to the airport police? Is that where an officer is likely to learn his or her profession best or in a local area? What steps should be taken? The next point is essential and concerns the intervention. Not to mention unacceptable behaviors, one has a feeling of amateurism and great improvisation by viewing these images. Mrs De Bolle, Mr De Mesmaeker, how can we make this happen as soon as possible? What measures can be taken in terms of training both at the level of knowledge of this type of agitated behaviour and at the level of the concrete, well-established and well-known intervention procedure of our agents? Some spoke of agitated delirium syndrome. Can you tell us, in the current state of your knowledge, whether this was actually diagnosed by a doctor? If so, at what time of intervention? Minister De Crem told us about police training that would be at the development stage, somewhat delayed by the VOCID-19. What is the situation and, in view of these images, will that suffice? With respect to the period of VOCID-19 and confinement, can we also ensure that our young police officers who have just left the academy have had all the theoretical and practical training to be able to deal with this type of intervention? Madam President, it is important to shed some light on what really happened by not losing sight of the fundamental objective of knowing how to help our agents react as adequately as possible when they are confronted with this type of behaviour. Once again, find solutions together and quickly so that our police officers are not collectively victims of the unworthy and unacceptable individual actions of some. These actions must not harm the vast majority of our police officers, whose work and daily dedication I sincerely welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u20	First of all, I would like once again to express our condolences to Mr Chovanec's family. I would also like to express my appreciation to the Commissioner-General, who is reaching out to the family and wants to visit them. Ladies and gentlemen, between our meeting last week and today, a great deal of new information has come to light on this unfortunate and serious matter. As the current Minister for the Interior stated here last week, the cabinet of the then Minister was indeed aware. There were press articles, diplomats who contacted the cabinet and there was the Slovak embassy. Initially, there was a oblivion, despite the fact that a person had died. But despite that limp communication, we must not forget the content. There is much to be said about this content. The facts and communication about them leave many questions unanswered for me and for many here. What everyone is still wondering is we have got some answers here, I will come back to it later, how is it possible that the agents concerned could just stay on the job? At such a serious event one cannot simply proceed to the order of the day? On the contrary, when a police act causes a death, all the alarm bells must go off everywhere, with everyone. Who was informed of the facts? Who had access to the footage? If some of them weren't aware of the images, or they didn't see them, shouldn't they have been? Those are still questions that remain open to me. At first, I am thinking of the head of the Charleroi airport police. It's hard to imagine that this man wasn't aware of or should have been. I would therefore like to address Mrs De Bolle in the first instance to specific questions. You say, and you sound honest in that, that you were not aware of the facts. Did you not then have any contact with Mr Elst or Mr Desenfants of the aviation police? As head of the federal police, don't you think it's your job that you or someone in your cabinet should have contacted the persons of the police hierarchy who were present there? Was the person on watch also effective in his place? Could he have come to the scene? Mrs De Bolle, if the information stopped at a certain level, what do you think is causing this? However, the police's deontological code of 10 May 2006 is clear as far as I am concerned. Police officers who are aware of serious deontological violations must inform the competent authorities. Apparently, that didn't happen here. How do you think that happened? On the basis of the information contained in the police report at his disposal, then Minister Jambon stated that it is not a correct picture of the facts that have taken place and thus does not correspond to the images in question. Is everything we hear right here? Can you confirm this again? What do you think is the reason for this? Is the correctness of such reports not verified when it comes to serious facts? A death is an absolutely serious fact. Is there a double check? How do you think we can avoid such things happening? In your speech, you spoke just now about an infoflux note that you had received. Can we get this note from you, too? Can this note be released to Parliament? Although the footage was confiscated, I think you could have had it. Criminal proceedings allow access to the criminal record when a reasoned application is made. In that case, the King's Attorney will decide on the basis of the available information. The facts were serious, because they were about a death, which we did not know was so serious. That's why I think you could ask that question and get the footage. On the basis of the information available or the information that should have been available, it is clear that a disciplinary measure, whether provisional or not, would have been appropriate. It is unbelievable, as I said at the beginning, that there was no such thing. This is where I believe we are hiding behind the judicial investigation. But such an investigation does not make it impossible at all to take a provisional disciplinary measure. I believe that the law of 13 May 1999 on the disciplinary status of the police is clear about this. Haven't you ever really considered pulling the case towards you and starting a disciplinary procedure, given the weighty fact? Finally, the Minister for the Interior can play a role in such matters. As has already been said, the cabinet, and also the minister himself, have been informed by various means and have not taken sufficient action. Could the minister draw more cases? Important here is, it's already been referred to, the liaison officer. Therefore, Mr De Mesmaeker, a few specific questions to you. You were aware of the facts. You said, thank God, with many ministers, with all the signatures, a good understanding, did you inform the Minister of all the steps and measures he could take in this matter? You also have a history with the federal police's legal department. In that capacity, you are familiar with the disciplinary status. What possibilities do you think the Minister has in these circumstances? Have you fully informed the Minister or his cabinet of his options? I also have questions for Minister Jambon at the time. In the meantime, it is clear that your cabinet was informed of the facts through various channels. Did you take proactive steps to get more and clearer information about what happened on that day just after the facts? If so, which one? Have you talked to people about it? What information did you request? There's a staff meeting in every cabinet. Did this point come to your staff meeting? Killing by police acts isn't a failure diverse, is it? Although the footage was confiscated, we believe that you could have been accessed by making a reasoned application to the King's Attorney General. Mr Jambon, were you informed of that possibility? Have you been informed yourself about the possible applications that you could have made as a minister in the framework of the Disciplinary Statute? Have you yourself considered what steps you could have taken in the framework of the Disciplinary Regulations? To conclude, why did you not take the initiative yourself to take a disciplinary measure, whether provisional or not, since a death occurred here after all? Soon Mrs Slegers will ask a number of specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u21	I would like to thank the speakers for being here today and answering our questions, to the extent that they can or wish to do so. I have a few problems with it anyway. I have heard your explanation here today and in the first round there are a number of questions. You have spoken strong words to the family, I will not say sorry, but of strength, but I think that family has much more right. We must therefore get to the bottom of this matter. If I sum up what I have heard so far, there is a problem of communication between politics and the different police services. I have heard every single one of you today and each one of you has opened his umbrella in his own way. You said what you did, but I came here to find out what you didn't do. I think the family has a right to know what went wrong. There is a common thread in the information I have heard from the press in the last week, but today in committee we have received very little information on this issue, apart from some reports on extranet. I am not talking about a communication problem, but about a serious cultural problem, both in the police and in politics. What I am most concerned about, and we heard this from Minister Geens last week, is that it seemed an innocent file. Do we have people who die every day in a police intervention? Both myself and the citizen are asking questions. Is it an innocent fact when someone leaves their lives in a police intervention? In which I am really rushing, is the fact that people are referring to the images. We were all shocked by the footage and I think no one doubts it. Did we really have to wait for that investigation until they had that footage to know that something went wrong there? Will you really fall back on a police report, which you say will be correct, as I have heard several times here today? We are going through the fire for our people, and rightly so, but I am looking at you now, Minister. Once a wise man said that being a minister is like running a business: sometimes good measures are taken, sometimes not, but one must have control over the whole business. Why didn't you ever ask the question? How many hints should you and your cabinet get, how many questions do you need to get before you effectively initiate an investigation to the bone? I am seriously questioning this, and I think a lot of people here in this Chamber. The first thing I'd like to stop at is the wrong police reports. We've been getting all kinds of information from the media for the last two weeks. There appear to be a lot of mistakes in it. For example, it is claimed that the man was aggressive, while the witnesses contradict this. I'll take a look at Mr. De Mesmaeker. If someone is killed or is dead, I remember a lot of police reports and a lot of files before the investigation is completed. There's only been one report here. What's that supposed to mean? Has only one report been effective, or have the police summit, the cabinet and the minister always heard and seen the same version of the facts? Were there any messages, reports or images that provided any additional or other information? It is very important to hear this effectively here today. What does that report say effectively? Is the use of a blanket mentioned? Is there any mention of how long the police officers were on that man? All small questions where you should have stopped. Who's actually responsible for that police report? Who is responsible for the control of that? How often, just mentioned, are proceedings initiated for incomplete or incorrect police reports? Who's responsible for that? Is there any control over that? What is not clear to me at all is why there was no investigation, or very little. At least the investigating judge should have informed the disciplinary authorities, so the police, of the facts. Did this happen or not, it's not clear. The judge assumed that they were already aware of the fact that they were involved. On 25 February, the public prosecutor and the P Committee began an investigation into the occurrence of involuntary beatings and injuries. At that point, the victim hasn't died yet. Has there been disciplinary proceedings at that time, and why not if there were none? According to some sources, such as Farouk, the P Committee even had these images. Is this true? Isn't this true? Mr Jambon said that disciplinary investigations could not be opened if the P Committee and the court had already dealt with the case. But that is another lie you have told in the media, Mr Jambon. Mr De Mesmaeker knows that this is possible. Shouldn't an internal investigation be initiated automatically in case of each death or serious injury following police intervention? Shouldn't the cops have been suspended temporarily? Shouldn't the investigation have been speeded up? Last week, someone died in Bree after an intervention, whether or not in a police cell. The question is whether we have learned anything from this case. Is this already with the P Committee? Mr De Mesmaeker, you will receive an e-mail after the death stating that this matter could raise parliamentary questions. You just mentioned that a lot of people saw the press release. Forgive me if I misunderstood, but you're actually rolling the ball to the Members of Parliament. If there are no questions, you should not investigate them either. Is this right? There's got to be a ringing bell, right? Why didn't you look up any additional facts? As regards the order measures, only after the images became public, Danny Elst resigned and transferred to an administrative service and an order measure was imposed. The same goes for the officer who delivered the Hitler greeting. Why is it possible now that the video is coming out, not earlier in the file? It was already clear that this man died after a muscular police intervention. I also have a few questions about the procedures and the investigation. Mr Jambon is hiding behind the secret of the investigation and the separation of powers, I have heard many times here today. If a man dies after a police action, isn't the Minister going to investigate? It's not a banal file, is it? This can never be justified. If your cabinet has had two contacts with the ambassador asking for clarification in the months after the facts, you will ask for information at the police summit. How often does such a meeting between a minister and an ambassador take place on such facts? Is that daily, weekly, annual? That's what I'm wondering. Is it true that a minister is not allowed to do anything if the P Committee or the public prosecutor opens an investigation? That he can't ask for information or consult? I don't think that's right at all, really. I would like to talk about the procedures for your interventions. This is not the first case where someone in so-called "agitated condition" dies after an intervention by the police. Last week Pieter De Crem told us that a working group was set up in 2018 to work out a better procedure. Is that decision related to the incident with Joseph Chovanec? Why wasn't a different policy set up immediately after the incident? That seems obvious to me. Has the working group been set up under Minister Jambon, or is it an effective initiative of Minister De Crem? In the second case, the problem was known and the question arises as to why there was no policy under Minister Jambon? I would then like to go into more detail about the memory. Minister, I understand that you have a lot on your mind, but if I may analyse your story for the last week, then your memory changed from day to day. It went from "I don't know anything" to "I don't remember anything." We believe that the reality is that Mr Jambon did not want to know about anything. I told you before: as long as no questions are asked, as long as no pots are stirred, there is no need to switch. It is quite clear that around the death of Mr Chovanec no one has made the slightest effort to clear things up, while the family really needs answers. In either case, Jan Jambon as minister did not assume his responsibility. And you're not actually doing that today. You are now pulling your umbrella open, but I have not heard once how we could work solution-oriented, what has gone wrong with you or with your services. That hurts. I'm sure this will hurt the families involved. I have just asked the question, and I would really like an answer to it: how often does someone die in or after a police action? There is, after all, a certain culture within the police. Last week, a right-wing party said that we should not blow things up and that it might well be an isolated case. Allow me to doubt that. Last time I repeated it up to five times that it is true that a lot of police officers act conscientiously out of commitment to the people and from human values. But there are also a lot of people who ruin everything. It's a part that's getting bigger and bigger. There is a part that is held over the hand by the superiors. I think you really should take responsibility for that. It's not just about the cop who delivered the Hitler greeting. Yesterday an article was published by the research magazine Apache. That piece exposed a facebook group with 6,700 members or ex-police members, a closed group where one has to pass on his badge number to get in, a secret group in which many things were posted that are racist, inhuman, glorifying violence, showing ways of elimination. Then I'll worry. I said here last week that 1% is ruining everything. I am concerned, and I believe you should do the same, Mr De Mesmaeker. Really. Such groups spread and normalize extreme right-wing ideas within the police. That shouldn't be normal. The police must have zero tolerance for fascism, racism and sexism. It's the people who have to protect us every day. We really have to respond to that, and not just today in an interview. I expect answers from you on how we will deal with this to the bone. But it goes even further than that. Earlier this year, the RTBF showed a reportage in which several police officers testified about racism and sexual harassment within the police. There is a culture of silence, and that culture of silence needs to be addressed. If someone opposes that, the whistleblower is even intimidated and transferred to another zone, rather than dealing with the problem. One can speak of no-go corps. Gentlemen, lady, I really hope this is not going to be a single case and that we are just asking questions here. There really needs to be a solution-oriented approach. That is the least we can offer that family and all the people involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u22	Madam President, our group also expresses our deepest sympathy for the families of Mr Chovanec. After the committee meeting last week where Mr De Crem put a number of things on the table here and after the press conference on Saturday by you, Mr Jambon, this is our first moment when we can ask you, Mr De Mesmaeker and Mrs De Bolle questions. I would like to thank all three of you for being here. We want clear answers. Since there have actually been no clear answers since last Wednesday, Members of Parliament and journalists have started playing researchers themselves. A number of things have become clearer in recent days. These new facts are: a false police report, a prosecutor who sees the footage but doesn't inform anyone, groups in the aviation police who sometimes have special practices, a nurse who says that losing that man wouldn't be so bad. Colleagues, this is a very serious fact. A man died, a man who turned out to be in trouble because he didn't have his necessary medication. A man who, in that situation, was counting on our security services and doctors to protect him. It was also a man who had wife, children and relatives. A man who, as has often been shown by the facts, was not a danger to his immediate environment, but was above all a danger to himself and therefore needed medical attention. The information that has now been released shows that the problem is much deeper and wider in some of our essential services. We are here today mainly to get honest answers and to learn how to avoid such matters in the future. These things must not happen again. A lot of questions have been asked. I'm not going to add much more. I do have some specific questions. A first question is for all three of you. None of you saw that camera footage. You said all three of them. It's known that every police cell at an airport has a camera. In our police zone, there's a camera in the cell, too. That the Minister does not know where there are cameras, I understand very well. I doubt that a Commissioner-General does not know that images are being recorded in a police cell at the airport. I think you know that well. Hasn't there ever been the reflex, to yourself or to your subordinates, to get that footage? The footage was confiscated by the investigating judge. Minister None of us confirmed that here last week. I don't know at what time. Either it was just or just not, but even when the images have ended up with the investigating judge, one can still request them. For my question I am not looking at Minister Jambon, but above all at Mr De Mesmaeker. Hasn't there ever been the reflex to get these footage? I also have a few specific questions for Mr Jambon. You're talking about a flashing light. The flashing light here is a man with a heart attack in a police cell, who's being taken to the hospital. He spends four more days in a coma there and then dies. In a police note there is talk of a muscular act. I have noted that on 1 March 2018, as Minister of Security, you were informed of the police note on that muscular performance. Mr Chovanec had already died. On 2 March 2018, two cabinet employees received from you the ambassador of Slovakia, as you have just reported. What exactly was said on that maintenance? You were abroad at the time. What was said between your two employees and the Slovak ambassador? Is there a record of this? Did you get any feedback on this? Did the two cabinet employees just keep this to themselves? I worked in a cabinet myself. A short report or e-mail is usually drawn up for such conversations. Many colleagues have already mentioned the discipline. According to the Disciplinary Regulations, you are the higher disciplinary authority for the officer framework and level A staff. Of course you do not know what level of people were in the cell in question during that night. If your cabinet or the SAT had requested access to the footage, you could easily have started a disciplinary procedure. That didn't happen. I understand you're saying that neither you nor your cabinet were aware, and so no mistake has been made. But where do you think a mistake happened? What times have mistakes been made? Soon I will put a question to Mr De Mesmaeker about who wrote the note, and this will be clear. So much for my three questions for you, Mr Jambon. Then I have a number of questions for Mr De Mesmaeker. It is a public secret within the police and beyond that the aviation police have to work, firstly, sometimes in difficult circumstances and, secondly, that there are islands there after all, I am not talking about the whole aviation police who have their own rules and their own application, and who do not take it too closely with the rules. That is well known, but it is also unfortunate for the vast majority of police forces, federal and local, who are victims of these escapades. The example that emerged in 2017 in the event of the expulsion of displaced asylum seekers is that people from that service went to party abroad and did other business at taxpayers' expense. That's what's happening over there. I regret that for the vast majority of the police. An audit of the aviation police took place in 2016. I asked the Home Secretary today to get that report. A number of recommendations have certainly been made in this audit. Are there any recommendations from the 2016 report that have already been implemented on the ground? Where are we with that? Is that still current business or is that over? I'd like to get some information on that. The crucial question for me is: who wrote the police note, of which we will get a copy, which was received by the SAT and was forwarded to the cabinet? We are talking about a wrong note here, but I would like to know which person that was. Is that a person who's on those videos of that cell? Then I can understand that it doesn't describe everything. Or is it someone else who wrote the note? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u23	Actually, can I come in? The note was requested by my associate and came to the cabinet. He didn't come to the cabinet through the SAT. This for the correct, correct rendering.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u24	That note was written by someone from the police department. I would like to know where in the hierarchical line that happened, who wrote that note, what name is underneath it, who approved it. So much for my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u25	I would like to thank the speakers for their explanation of the dossier, which caused a lot of eyebrows to frown, caused suffering and grief to the family concerned, cast a shadow over the reputation of the police and did not give a good picture of politics. I recall from the testimonies today that all three of you were unaware of the seriousness of the matter in order to take the necessary steps. Allow me to underline that I remain left with questions. I said this in the last sitting. If a man dies after a police brutality in a cell, isn't that a signal to take steps? I ask all three of you that question. Mrs De Bolle, when you took office as Commissioner General of the Police, the Jonathan Jacob case came your way. It is a very similar case in which someone died in a cell after police brutality. Even then, a person needed medical attention and then the ball didn't start rolling until camera footage appeared in the press. Do you agree with me that it was your job to learn the necessary lessons? Have you taken action to prevent such incidents? Then what are these actions? How did you ensure that the different departments should be aware of the new policy? You're saying you weren't aware. What weren't you aware of? You were aware of the brutality of the police in a cell, because, first of all, there was an internal press review. Secondly, the ambassador's note concerned you. Thirdly, if I have understood Mr De Mesmaeker's explanatory statement correctly, many more people were aware of the situation. So you were indeed aware that a man had died. Why wasn't that enough to take the necessary steps? Mr De Mesmaeker, you are the only one who has been informed and many others, along with you. How often does the liaison officer have to inform the cabinet about a'strange story' and that there may be parliamentary questions? How often do you send such e-mails? Do you agree with me that this is exceptional, or not? How often does an ambassador come to the Home Secretary's cabinet to ask for information about such facts? Are these exceptional facts or do they often happen? Mr De Mesmaeker, you say by heart that you did what you had to do, but could you have acted proactively? You, too, were aware that someone had died. You've described your position. You have explained that you must inform the Cabinet. But there is nothing to prevent you from speaking in another file about a liaison officer and his role, and the Minister will remember that you might have acted proactively. Minister Jambon, you have said that you have no built-in distrust of the police forces. Me neither. Neither are the citizens. As many of us here in the Chamber have said, the police are the only ones who get the monopoly from us to use violence in an honest way, only when necessary. They got that trust from us, they don't have to ask. But you also agree with me, Minister, that the matter does not promote trust with the police. I think this is the worst thing: if the case had been taken seriously, it would not have been possible for it to have been tarnished by our police forces. The judicial investigation will show exactly what happened and who was responsible for what. That file's still running. Those concerned are not in the Chamber today to explain why the dossier has remained for two and a half years. That doesn't change the fact that there were enough other flashing lights to shoot into action. It is not because, on the one hand, there is a long delay, for whatever reason, that we will have to resolve this problem, and, on the other hand, we can act as if nothing is going on. You ask which flashing light. There's a police report. That police report is very brief. We haven't gotten it yet, but if I can rely on what has appeared in the press, it seems that there is a very detailed description of what happened on the plane and only very briefly what happened in the police cell. The fact that the police report is not the correct representation of what we saw on the footage is also worrying. That is what we are establishing now, and we need to see how we can prevent it from happening in the future. Anyway, the report was there. At the same time, there was a judicial investigation. So if there's nothing wrong with the report, maybe there should be a call to explain why there's a judicial investigation going on. Why wasn't that fact in itself enough as a flashing light? The Slovak embassy will come to your cabinet twice to raise the file. How often does something like this happen? How often does an ambassador come to your cabinet personally to discuss a case twice? I was never Minister of the Interior, but I hope in your career as Minister of the Interior you didn't have such a file on your agenda every week? That an ambassador comes to your cabinet twice to demonstrate the seriousness of a situation, why isn't that a flashing light? Moreover, there is a press article which, as I understand it, has been widely distributed. In that press article a link is made with the police action and possibly the death of the man. Let me be clear: the court will decide whether it was. But why wasn't that a flashing light? Finally, and most importantly, someone died. Why isn't that a flashing light? I haven't checked the police report yet, and after your testimony today, I'd like to believe it was a summary report. But please explain to me why all the other flashing lights were not sufficient to take action. You yourself stated in your explanatory statement that you were not the disciplinary officer. But if the file was serious enough, you could draw it to him. Why did you fail to request more information? Why did you fail to initiate an internal investigation? Perhaps you would have found out more about what was going on through that internal investigation. Why didn't you ask the D.O.D. to initiate a procedure? Why didn't the disciplinary authorities ask for access to the file themselves to get the footage? From what point in time were the images effectively confiscated and were they no longer available for the services? So I still have a lot of questions. The answer that was not known, because the police report was brief, I find really insufficient. My final question to all three of you is what your recommendations are. Apparently, the system is not well organised enough to prevent such incidents. There was the Jonathan Jacobs case, today we sit together for the Chovanec case. I do not really want to come back to committee to discuss such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u26	Thank you to the three speakers this morning. Mr Jambon, I want to tell you that at the outset, no one is asking for your hearing. You told the press that you had never heard of this case, so in good faith no one asked for your hearing or in any way called you into question. Last week's commission quickly changed the situation. Indeed, in the light of the explanations given by the current ministers, we realize that you were well aware of the situation. We do not yet know exactly to what extent you were, but we know that you have been informed in different ways. Last Saturday, you justified yourself in front of the press by somewhat attenuating the speech and, the next day, you said that you could "not intervene in any way in disciplinary proceedings and that it was up to the police authorities to do so." Nevertheless, let us doubt your good faith, given the succession of untruths, for they are indeed untruths. We particularly question the fact that you could not intervene as a disciplinary authority. The first element that seems to me to be fundamental – and that other colleagues have recalled – is your assertion that the report was very incomplete and that there was no element that had put the chip in your ear. However, these elements were present. For example, the Embassy of Slovakia had repeatedly asked to meet with you, your office and yourself. There had been a civil suit with a criminal complaint and the referral to an investigating judge, which you could not ignore. Finally, an early warning signal was issued informing you that the incident was going to be the subject of parliamentary questions and that the case would therefore be highly publicised. All these elements should therefore have alerted you and encouraged you to seek additional duties, not in the judicial sense of the term, but in relation to requests for information. As for the disciplinary procedure, I can't hear what you just said an hour ago. You're saying you couldn't act. But you had three options: section 20, section 26 and section 59 of the Disciplinary Status Act 1999. According to article 20, it is yourself the disciplinary authority, according to the rank of the agents in question. We don't know him, he might be one of the elements. Maybe we can use that article, depending on the rank they had. These ranks must be high for you to be the disciplinary authority. According to Article 26, on the other hand, it is you - in case the grades are not those of Article 20 - who can ask the administrative authority, here the Director General of the Administrative Police, to conduct a disciplinary investigation. You said that it required special conditions to do so. This is, of course, article 59. It states that "without prejudice to other measures of a kind which may be taken in the course of disciplinary proceedings, the Minister of the Interior may temporarily suspend, by order, the staff member of the Federal Police who is the subject of disciplinary proceedings, judicial information or criminal proceedings and whose presence in the Federal Police is incompatible with the interests of the service." If you did not have the power in this article to effectively exclude, at the very least, the people in question, I wonder what you need. It's not a question of appreciation. That's the law. As far as the facts are concerned, you say you did not consider it important, in view of the elements; but it is the law, and you could absolutely exclude these people in the interest of service, as long as the other procedures succeed. You didn't. You don't explain why you don't do it at that time! Why don't you use this article, section 26 and/or section 20 to request disciplinary action? You don't care! You cannot say, either here or in the press, that you had no tools in your hands to act. I would remind you, however, that Committee P, in its main recommendation, mentions that dealing with the facts at the judicial level is not incompatible with the exercise of disciplinary action, on the contrary. To remain inactive on the grounds that legal proceedings are ongoing is contradictory to Darville case law. That's what Committee P is saying. We should not be told that these are two things and that you considered that the court was seized and that everything was fine. Behind my inquiry, there is no will to "do Jambon to make Jambon", allow me the expression a little trivial! Behind this, what is it? A family that has been unanswered for two and a half years. However, if you had initiated disciplinary proceedings from the outset, there would be more than likely established disciplinary responsibilities. This would have prevented this family from having a complete absence of answers, but it would have avoided putting reproach on the entire police force, as is the case at present. This is what is happening: it is the police in its entirety that is tainted, because we have not put a finger on the few agents who would have – the investigation will tell us – misused force, but whose behaviour has, in any case, proved totally inadequate: the Nazi salvation, but also their hilarious attitude since they seemed to be joking in front of this situation. In this case, it is your inaction and, perhaps, even if I doubt it, your lack of knowledge of the texts or your omission that are guilty. This is your personal responsibility. In addition, you have a more general responsibility for your policy or, rather, for your ultra-safe speeches. We've often discussed it when you were Minister of the Interior. I'm talking a lot about speeches, because no government has invested so much in security. Perhaps your very strong speeches led some police officers to believe that they could show a certain degree of lightness in the use of force. It was your speech that allowed some - I repeat - to go astray. So it seems to me essential that you can tell us why, while you have legal tools - and this is not an opportunity - you did not intervene despite the warning signals in this case? When the ambassador comes to you, I guess he doesn't say, "One of our nationals had a heart attack by pushing his suitcase to Charleroi airport." We know the context is cloudy. You know that, for this reason, disciplinary proceedings had to be initiated. I would remind you that it is not a question of questioning you, but of thinking about a family waiting for answers. Moreover, a whole police force is tainted by this inaction which I call, in this case, guilty. Mr De Mesmaeker, what about the agents involved? What fate was reserved for them? We heard that an investigation had been initiated. But, pending this one, where are these agents? Were any orderly measures taken against them pending a disciplinary regime, if any, set in motion, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I wish you could tell us what is happening, because we heard that the agent who had made the Nazi salvation had been moved to a service, but we have no idea of the fate reserved for other agents. You talked about procedure. Mr De Mesmaeker, please explain to us what are the guidelines for the use of force in the event of a situation as experienced in February 2018! Mrs De Bolle, we know that the agents in question have sought state lawyers for their defence. An article on the police function allows them to do so. This request may be refused. I understand she's been accepted. It is an important element and I suspect that it is not any administrative officer who signs the authorization. Who signed this authorization for agents to have a state-paid legal defence? In fact, it seems to me that there is something that could challenge us in this area, whether a member of the police hierarchy or of his management committee was not aware of it. Personally, I was not informed of what happened. We now know that a number of members of the police played the words, saying that they had not been made aware of what the press had yet revealed (the images), while they were probably so even if they did not know anything about the Nazi salvation, the cameras. Has the police steering committee been aware of the elements of the police report at any time? While disciplinary proceedings could be legally initiated by the Minister of the Interior, article 20 provided that disciplinary proceedings could be initiated by the Director of the Administrative Police as a hierarchical authority. As such, we need to know why these disciplinary procedures are not initiated for facts that are established and the nature of which requires more investigation. I would really like to know if there has been any information at the level of the police steering committee, as several elements suggest. What exactly is the situation in this regard? Why did this steering committee, if it had the report before it, - I am not talking about the images - not act by seizing the general inspection for an investigation, or by starting administrative procedures? One realizes that this case is characterized by a form of omerta or guilty negligence, of trivialization of the incident. In my view, it is a matter of gross negligence and indifference, which is unacceptable given the seriousness of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u27	Mr. Jambon, the memory seems to have finally returned to you. It's a good thing, even if your memories are partial, not to say selective. You say you remember this famous meeting with the Slovakian ambassador on 30 May 2018 but not its content. Such an encounter seems significant to me. In five years' service, how many more meetings did you have with ambassadors about a death at one of our airports that was likely due to a federal police intervention, which was then under your supervision? It seems to me that it's rare enough and serious enough to remember it. How is it that a minister in charge of the security of his fellow citizens, but also of anyone who arrives in our territory, is not more concerned than that of a death that occurs shortly after a police intervention? Contrary to what you are telling us, it was not because there were no images that accompanied this famous police report that you could not solicit them. It is now known that these images were quickly seized by the courts. Did you know that at the time? When did you find out? Can you ignore the fact that the cells at Charleroi airport had surveillance cameras? I cannot believe that no one to the police, especially to the Charleroi airport police, saw these images before giving them to the Charleroi prosecutor's office at his request. In any case, it seems to me that what we are entitled to expect from a minister and the federal police hierarchy is to investigate serious facts and not to fall short of reports that are said to be summary or incomplete or behind images that are directly at your disposal. Mr. De Mesmaeker, Mrs. De Bolle, you confirmed that the police report did not accurately capture all the facts relating to this case. Do you consider this acceptable? How do you explain that the operation that took place on the plane and on the tarmac is described in detail but not the one that took place in the police cell? Wasn't a serious mistake committed here by the officers who had the task of drawing up this police report? In fact, what means do we have today to ensure that a record is accurate to the facts that it has to report and that it is perfectly comprehensive? I'll come back to you, Mr. Jambon. You said last Saturday, at your press conference, that the Chovanec case was no longer within your jurisdiction, "that it was no longer your business", to use your words, as soon as a judicial investigation had been launched. My colleague has rightly said, that is not true. Indeed, the law made available to you a whole series of measures. You, as well as federal police officials, could take them to learn more. As has been said, you could already look at these facts to see if they were likely to lead to disciplinary proceedings. You say that the famous Nazi greeting was not included in the police report. But if you had asked for an examination of the facts, then you would have been aware of that fact. But you would also have been aware of the disproportionate violence that had been used by the police officer who crushed Mr. Chovanec for very long minutes. Therefore, why didn't you ask for a review of these facts? Why didn't you wonder how this death occurred? As you told us, you were aware of this death as of March 1, 2018. You could also refer to this case as soon as, on the basis of the results of this review, it became clear that, by their nature and seriousness, the facts constituting the case were likely to be disciplinary transgressions that could result in a heavy disciplinary sanction. That's article 18. In other words, again, contrary to what you claim, you did not have to wait for serious evidence of a criminal offence in order to be able to act. You could also, as my colleague Matz said, temporarily suspend, by order of order, the staff member of the federal police, even though he was the subject of a disciplinary or judicial investigation in parallel. So you had a legal basis to act. You should also know, in your capacity as mayor, that under no circumstances does the fact that there is an ongoing judicial investigation become an obstacle to action, a fortiori when there is man's death. You were also subject, Mr.Jambon, to the principle of ministerial responsibility, under which, in 1998 – following the death of Ms.Semira Adamu – Minister Tobback had assumed his responsibilities by resigning because he felt responsible for the acts committed by the federal police, then under his supervision. In 2010, Minister Milquet, as a result of Jonathan Jacob's death, had asked the local authorities to suspend the police officer involved, as well as the P Committee, to develop recommendations for the control of violence when the person in question is mentally ill. Why did these ministers learn from these tragedies by taking decisions of both a disciplinary and a political nature, but not you? I would also like to come back to two questions that I addressed last Wednesday to Minister De Crem, which deal with your powers at that time. First, what protective measures have you taken to protect whistleblowers? If there is something that our police officers are telling us, it is extremely difficult to get information back without fear of reprisals, for example by being dismissed for simply transmitting one – even if it would be elementary. Secondly, can we tell you what steps you have taken throughout your mandate to implement the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Torture? I am thinking in particular of the establishment of an independent mechanism to investigate any allegations of ill-treatment occurring in places of detention, including police cells such as that of Mr. Chovanec. I am also thinking of the need to strengthen the oversight and oversight mechanisms of the police forces, such as the P Committee, or to improve the training of our police services with regard to the absolute prohibition of torture. In this regard, we know that when the police are confronted with people with mental disorders and a fortiori when they become a danger to themselves, when it comes to protecting them on their own, the role of the police must only be to control the situation pending the arrival of the medical services which, in the case of this case, arrived only four hours after Mr. Chovanec's arrest. It seems to me that this raises fundamental questions, which were also included in the police report and which, again, should have challenged you. This is all the more so since, following the death of Mr Jonathan Jacob in a police cell, the P Committee made recommendations in 2017 in order to update a circular on the law on the police function in order to have a unique approach to be adopted by our police services when they are confronted, as was the case in the Chovanec case, with a person with mental disorders. It must be noted that this circular has never been adapted. Why? Mr De Mesmaeker, last Wednesday, Minister De Crem stated that he had never been informed of this tragedy before the disclosure of these famous images, nor when he took office at the time of recovering Mr Jambon's ministerial portfolio, nor during his interview with the Commissioner General at the time, namely yourself. Do you confirm that? If so, why not provide this information to him when the seriousness of the facts required political follow-up, in any case with regard to the measures he could take? Mrs De Bolle, Mr De Mesmaeker, you say you did not have access to these images at the time, stating that if that had been the case, of course, you would have taken the necessary measures. Why didn't you try to find out more? Do we have to consider that it is customary for the federal police to stick to the facts and not to the images, especially when there is a man dead and the police report mentions him? In the same way, Mrs De Bolle, did you at the time see any malfunctions in the airport police? For, from what we have learned, it appears that some information has not reached you, but it also appears from a number of relatively disputing testimonies that the Charleroi airport police may not have been customary for such acts, but have already committed disproportionate or disturbing violence. In your opinion, does this situation require an audit or evaluation of its good – or less – functioning today? Mr De Mesmaeker, you insisted earlier on the need to restore public confidence in the police. In my view, we all agree that this trust is fundamental. The violence committed by the police and against them, which fortunately remain marginal, is increasingly evidence of a polarization of society. This polarization is unacceptable, and we must do everything we can to prevent it because it affects our living together and the good missions that our police have to assume. It is precisely for this reason that we are waiting for your answers, both for our citizens and for our police officers who suffer from these cases casting reproach on their profession. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Chairman: Each group has now been discussed. There were colleagues who asked for the floor. I would ask you to be brief, given the large number of questions that have already been asked. The purpose of our meeting is to get answers from our guests, not to hear the questions repeated several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u28	Madam President, I will address a specific point that has not been raised by anyone. Madam, gentlemen, the hearing reminded me of an Arab saying that the solution is sometimes worse than the problem. A man died in a federal police cell as a result of your men's intervention and you tell us that this has not aroused much interest in you. You assume it because it's your line of defense. Mr Jambon goes even further as he tells us, when we speak of his meeting with the ambassador, that it is quite usual to meet an ambassador and that not remembering such a meeting more than any other is quite normal. Mr Jambon, the lightness of this answer denies all your regrets to the family. Each of you pleads good faith. You didn't question yourself because you thought that at each level, everyone had taken their responsibilities. Good faith is an indecent line of defence to this level of responsibility because it clears you de facto to bear responsibility and to have it carried to your subordinates. Nobody says, "There is a malfunction and as the highest hierarchy, I take responsibility for it." It's a component of your jobs. It's probably the least pleasant, but that's what we expect and that's what your subordinates expect from a leader. I only have one question for Mr Jambon. From when do you feel that a minister's political responsibility is engaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u29	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister and the Commissioners-General for being here and asking us to listen to our barrage. It must be said again, Minister, that in the last two weeks we have seen some twisting and carelessness. The statements from "I never heard a word about it" to "I have had a personal meeting" are quite a turn for me personally. One may expect a minister to inform himself correctly before communicating. Having said that, you just set up a timeline. That timeline didn't bring much news. We have heard again everything we have heard in your press release last Saturday. However, there are two punctual questions for me. The first question has already been asked by other groups, but I would like to repeat it because I think it is very important. What exactly was said between the cabinet staff and the ambassador? There were two meetings, on 2 March and 29 August. On 2 March there was a meeting without the Minister being present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u30	May 30th.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u31	Yes, March 2nd and May 30th. You weren't here on March 2nd. I know that if a minister is not present at such a meeting, there will be a thorough debriefing by the cabinet staff to the minister about what was said there. You were present on 30 May, but you said that you were present shortly because you had other agreements following a terrorist attack that happened the day before. That is understandable, of course. That means your cabinet staff may have talked to the ambassador a little longer. So again I ask the question what exactly was said there. When such ambassadors come to the cabinet, the meeting is thoroughly prepared and questions are asked to the police for additional information. If you were the only answer to that police report, which is actually very brief, and if during that conversation there were cases such as the violence in the police or the Hitler greetings that we could have seen on the footage, then should there have been a flash at that time with your employees or with yourself or after the debriefing by your employees to you? I think that is a very important point. You'll answer later. I do not know whether there are internal notes or reports that we can see that can strengthen your response. A second punctual question is about the triggers and the flashing lights. You said yourself that none of them went off. When I add the press articles of 28 August 2018, I read literally: "There is a possible link between the police's performance in our country and his death. The man would have been beaten. The Slovak family wants to know if the police have used excessive force." Those are all important triggers, aren't they? You read this, you have a meeting with the Slovak ambassador who will most likely have been aware of, for example, the Hitler greetings, something that cannot be overlooked after a conversation with the victim's family. That will most likely be discussed at such a meeting. You have the e-mail that says: pay attention, we may get parliamentary questions. You have the Secretary of State's note. You finally have the police report that was too brief, but besides that there were five flashing lights, if you ask me. Then why hasn't there been the political reflex to request access to the file, based on Article 21a? A lot of things would have been avoided and an orderly measure could have been taken from the outset. Why hasn't that political reflex been there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u32	Minister, Mr. From Mesmaeker, I'm kind of uncomfortable. Indeed, if I understood correctly, your line of defense is to say that you had not been kept informed and that the report was empty, so that you could not know anything. What a trivialization of a person's death in one of your precincts! For starters, could you provide us with statistics on the number of deaths in our police stations? Obviously, you don't seem to have much to do with it. I am worried about your attitude and your line of defense, which is built on the presence of an almost empty report. Is the presence of such a report not worse at the political level? Does it not show that this kind of act is commonplace, both on the part of the minister and the police hierarchy? I am also concerned about the hierarchy of the police. How is it possible that the highest level of hierarchy has not become aware of the seriousness of the facts or sought further information in this regard? An interesting anecdote to this is the fact that the e-mail on parliamentary questions did not contain any comments on the embarrassing questions that could be asked of you. Normally, you should have been the first to tell yourself that you were facing an internal problem, since a person had died. However, you do not seem to have become aware of this problem, you simply blame the lower level for not warning you. "The lamps didn't warn us." I'm really worried about that. You said, Minister, that you had no reason to doubt the content of the report. There is no reason to doubt the content of the report! My question, Minister, is this: Do you regret this analysis? Looking back, do you think you were wrong when you said you didn't have to doubt the report? Do you draw more general conclusions about how political power should react when such acts are committed? I think that, politically, you said it was justifiable violence. "Sir must have been looking for him. He was uncontrolled and uncontrollable." It is political ideology that explains why we were not looking further. Today's problem is there. Acts to control people who have serious psychiatric problems, our nurses pose tens of them every day. Last week, I was talking to nurses who have to deal with very complicated people in medical centres. Yet, it does not lead to death. These questions should be asked, among the police units that acted on this file. The dominant ideology within the police hierarchy and at the level of the minister is that this violence was justified. That's why we weren't looking any further after the police report. We'll have it soon, but I already know what it's about. It will be said that they must have acted in a strong – muscular way, that is the word we use today. An intervention that leads to death is said to be muscular. "Here, there's nothing we could do about it! That's the problem I have today with this case. I would have liked to see the existence of a problem at the level of the police and the minister, namely the trivialization of a case, including when an ambassador came, as he is normal, to defend his fellow citizen. He'll ask if it's normal in our country to kill people when they're at the police station. I guess that's the question the ambassador is going to ask you. "Give me the facts!" "Ah ben nun! First of all, I don't even remember." If that's true, minister, that means that such facts are so commonplace for you that you don't remember. What happened there was apparently so banal for you that you just forgot. That's bad, isn't it, Minister? That also says a lot about yourself and the image you have of how police forces should function. I really don't understand that. Mr De Mesmaeker, what was the debriefing of this case? It is our responsibility that the images have not been shown there. Why? Because they could have influenced the objectivity of the analysis. So it's no coincidence that they haven't been picked up. From the start, a filter was placed, on the ground that they are not objective. Colleagues, in terms of the subjectivity of information control, that can count. So we have a police force that controls itself and filters what goes up from the base. I would like to have some answers here to know what to do so that this will not happen again. I will conclude, Madam President, because my colleague Gaby Colebunders has asked a lot of specific questions about the procedure, and I hope we will get answers on this. I would like to know, in any case, whether or not Minister Jambon considers that he has political responsibility for the malfunctioning of this very serious case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u33	In addition to my colleague, Mr Vandeput, I would like to point out that the file shows many errors and shortcomings in the police. There are equally serious questions about the judicial aspect of the dossier. I feel, like so many outside, a deep indignation about events; they are unworthy of a rule of law. As members of the committee, as Members of Parliament and as politicians, we have a responsibility to give an orderly form to the democratic rule of law. Hence the many questions today. There is the crucial data of the images. It's common knowledge that there's cameras in the police cells at the airport, but no one's asking them. Until the widow puts the case in the press. What's the cause? My colleague already asked me that. The images of the facts in the cell were also confiscated by the investigating judge and so either he or the prosecutor of the King saw the images two and a half years ago. Why didn't the investigating judge inform the police themselves of the facts so that an investigation could have been started more quickly? At the previous meeting of the Committee, Minister None referred to Article 26, which also allowed judicial authorities to inform the disciplinary authorities, and stated that this did not happen because the facts had already been made public and that the events had also come to light through the images and were known to the police. Today we hear from two of you that you were not aware of the images, unlike Mr Geens' statement that the police were aware of the images. Today the questions remain as to who saw the footage two and a half years ago, and why the investigating judge or the prosecutor did not act more quickly. I just note that a lot of people on all kinds of levels two and a half years ago did not go into action. I therefore urge that a follow-up meeting be held to discuss questions relating to justice. How and with whom we do that best, we can meet later. Then the question may also be raised, which the witnesses cannot answer today, why the investigating judge did not respond to the question of reconstruction two and a half years ago, and which, on 25 August last, without a new fact of the public prosecutor's office being revealed, still finds it worthwhile. Of course, the duration of the research can also be questioned, with damaging consequences for the family and those responsible. Let us be clear: there must be transparency about what exactly happened and those responsible must be brought to court as soon as possible. Of course, we must also learn lessons for the future from the dossier. Now, when will lessons finally be drawn, both from the police and from the judiciary, from the events that are a tragedy to the family and a disgrace to the police and to our country? The excited delirium syndrome of EDS has long been known. Mrs Kitir reminded us of the death of Jonathan Jacob. There is also the recommendation of the 2014 P Committee that there is an urgent need to draw up guidelines for this. As my colleague said, the victim was not a danger to others, only to himself, and he needed medical attention. I think we really need to take action very quickly. Mr De Crem said in committee last week that he wanted attention to EDS in basic training. Mr Geens referred to a working group with the Health and Health Administration. My question to the two top police officers is why a general directive was not rolled out much earlier, so that policemen are prepared for such cases? Everyone here in the room who, as mayor for example, has to do with police forces, realizes that EDS cases are not unknown to small corps either. Mrs De Bolle and Mr De Mesmaeker, why did you not take the initiative during your mandate to better prepare our people for this, even though I would add immediately that 95% of our police officers respond appropriately and try to do what needs to be done in sometimes difficult circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u34	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your input. I will answer a number of detailed questions later, but as far as the broad question that was addressed to me is concerned, namely why I did not take disciplinary action, why I did not take the initiative, I can say the following. The possibilities available to the Minister of the Interior are exceptional procedures, which assume that information is in the possession of facts that justify taking such actions or which enable me to take action against certain members of the police then I must know their names and initiate disciplinary proceedings or take an order measure. In other words, clear indications of disciplinary or criminal offences are required. I'm telling you, I didn't have any such information. There were three sources from which that information could come. That was, first of all, the judicial investigation. Of course, the whole thing has been given a different context for all of us since we were able to get to know the images. Within the legal proceedings, of course, these images were seen very quickly. Then it would have been logical for the investigation team to inform the disciplinary authorities. That didn't happen. That's the first source of information. The second source of information, and it's a little laughing about that here, is the police report. Once I've seen the footage, I'll say avec des gaps. Mr Laaouej spoke here about the gaps in the police report. But how can we know that at the moment when we get it, shortly after the facts? If you have seen the images, you will indeed see that there are gaps in that report. You can indeed blame me for that. We can have very long discussions about this, but if, as a minister, in any capacity, not only the Minister of the Interior but also all the other ministers, we cannot rely on reports from any administration... the officials in office have a code of ethics. They're required to report correctly, aren't they? Otherwise, they're gonna make huge professional mistakes. I assume, with the multitude of information we get at our desk, that reports that come from administrations, whatever, to prove otherwise, are correct. In that report, too, I saw no reason to act outside the police hierarchy and act as Minister for the Interior. Then there is the third phenomenon, the two visits of the ambassador. A number of colleagues have asked whether it is exceptional for an ambassador to come and talk about the death of one of his or her fellow countrymen after police action. Fortunately, that is very exceptional and it is not experienced very much. That ambassadors come to the Minister of the Interior and also Deputy Prime Minister who was a weekly cost. But not with such a theme where a fellow countryman died after a police intervention, although we could not at that time say that there was a causal link between the two (...). At the first conversation I was not present but I was informed by my colleagues afterwards. In preparation for that meeting, the police report was requested. That's why that police report came to our cabinet so quickly. During that meeting with the ambassador, the police report was reviewed. The ambassador was satisfied that a judicial investigation had been initiated. Then there was the second meeting with the ambassador on May 30. By the way: the fact that I don't remember that meeting, of course, I myself am very sorry. But what benefit do I have? You also know: such meetings in a cabinet, a report of which is drawn up... Now, like many of you, I am long enough in politics to know that this is coming out. It's gonna come out either way. So what interest would I have in saying that I forgot if I hadn't forgotten, knowing it's coming up anyway? I don't have any interest in that, do I? So I'm telling you, with the hand on the heart, I forgot. We have had that interview with one of my staff, and the only sentence that has gone on about this report is the ambassador's question as to whether there was any news in the investigation. I had to answer: "No, the investigation is in the hands of the investigating judge. I can't give you any additional information." The fact that what I am saying here is correct is also demonstrated by the fact that the ambassador in question stated exactly the same thing in the press a few days ago. I didn't get any additional information there. And for the rest, my employee says, it was a friendly conversation with the ambassador, who did not demand anything from Belgium or anything else. No, it was just a question of information, a state of affairs, and my announcement: "I can't give you any additional information." Excuse me for not remembering that today. It was the day after the attacks in Liège. In the morning we heard that the IS had claimed it and I had four claws to Liège for a memorial. I deeply regret that. Now, if you're asking me if I've made any mistakes... I don't know if it's a mistake not to remember anything, but I deeply regret it. But I have no interest in saying something like that in case I remember. After all, you know that these things come up, and that's a good thing. With the hand on the heart: so I forgot. Those three sources of information were there. According to my evaluation of the case, however, we may differ on this, which fortunately may be the case in a democracy, none of these three sources of information have given rise to my decision to use my exceptional methods of disciplinary intervention. I didn't do that either. Mr Van Hecke, you say I should have known. After all, the report said "medical problems." That's why a doctor was called in. That went well. On the basis of the report that was the analysis of my cabinet: there are medical problems, so the doctor comes along; that has been handled correctly. What after May 30th? The judicial investigation has been going on for two and a half years. On May 30, 2018, that was only a few months. I assume there's a reasonable time limit for conducting an investigation. We waited until the judicial investigation ended, all the more so because the judicial investigation did not give us any impetus towards the disciplinary government. Both Mr Laaouej and Mrs Taquin say that I should have asked for additional information after reading the report. I think I have just replied by saying that at that time I had no indication that this report had any shortcomings. Later, when viewing the images next to the report, it is not difficult to establish that there is indeed a need for additional information. But we definitely didn't have the footage back then. Mr Demon, you ask me if I have been informed about the possibilities. Yes, as a minister, they're supposed to be aware of something, so I knew that. Why didn't I take the initiative? I just clarified that. The representative of the PVDA is talking about a one-sided fallback to the police report. I think I have also replied to that. That's the source of information we have. If you have to question reports from sworn officials, I would have to set up a whole parallel administration in my office to check every report I receive to see if the elements are in line with reality. It's completely unworkable. I'm pretty sure the police hierarchy's got a bone in it. It goes without saying that something needs to be done about the fact that incomplete reports are emerging. I think I have also answered the questions put by Mr Vandenput and Mrs Kitir. Mrs Rohonyi, when it comes to bringing up information and ensuring protection, a law regulating whistleblower status, including within the police, was voted in 2019 on the initiative of MP Conseil Degroote. There is also the GPI 81 circular which regulates a number of issues and makes recommendations on how to deal with violence. I think that perhaps it would be better for the police to answer this themselves later. It also includes a part that relates to training. I brought the documents, but I'd rather leave this to the police. Mrs. Khattabi, you asked me if I felt responsible. Should I or my cabinet have made mistakes, I would feel responsible. I don't think we've made any mistakes. Madam President, I think I have answered the most important questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u35	I shall first answer Mr De Roover's questions. There were a number of specific questions. The first question is whether we have ever received relevant information that has made us doubt the quality of the police report. The answer is no. Did we ever get feedback from the parquet? Answer: no. Who was the discipline? I have already explained this in my speech. With the 2018 picture, I understand clearly with the interveners as stated in the police report, the discipline lies entirely within the general management of the administrative police. With regard to Mr Van Hecke's questions. What has happened to the recommendations of the P Committee? I can answer a lot of questions with that. After Jonathan Jacob, a GPI 81 circular was sent around. It was then implemented with a priority for the special units and the special assistance teams of the local police. Training was developed and provided in order to intervene in such situations. We gave priority to this category. In 2018, the question arises as to whether this was sufficient and whether, as I hear in some of the interventions, we should not be helping our first-line services in this matter anymore. In this context, as the current Minister for the Interior explained last week, a multidisciplinary working group has indeed been set up with fedpol, lokpol, the magistrate and the medical world from which concepts and ideas have emerged. Now we are at the stage of a textbook and textbook to teach this to our policemen. This matter will be on the Strategic Committee on the Control of Violence of the Integrated Police this afternoon. The intention is to work quickly with the police, as promised in my speech. Quickly, understand: this year the playbook must have been knocked off and the training must be able to start. Mr Van Hecke, you ask: why not act harder? I state that the number two of the federal police have temporarily stepped aside. I would like to stress that it is his own decision. Know that I have had a long talk with him as Commissioner-General, but I would stress that it is his own decision to do so. Secondly, in the meantime, a director has been transferred. Thirdly, the previous Director-General of the Administrative Police who stepped aside first took an order against the staff member with the Hitler Greetings and removed that of the Operational Service, which was in contact with the public. Saying nothing happened, I see that slightly differently. What is more, if the internal investigation is progressing now, and it is progressing well, and if cases are identified at some point in that internal investigation, then action can still be taken. Then discipline can be started. If disciplinary action is initiated, an order of suspension may be taken. I am now setting out very clearly the conditions within which someone can be put on a stand-off pending, as the law says in Article 59: either one should have an introductory report in order to be able to suspend someone, or an investigation or a judicial investigation against someone. Not against anything. If the internal investigation gives clear indications, then we are not going to delay taking additional measures of order, if necessary. You're asking who's aware of the footage. That was question 4 in my speech. I also want a clear and unambiguous answer to this as soon as possible. You ask me who was at the operational debriefing. That's gonna have to tell the internal investigation. Whether or not we've seen footage there, that's what the internal investigation will have to tell us. Mr Laaouej, if I have not expressed myself well, I apologize. This may not have been understood by all, but Mr Demon's question is the answer to your question. His question was: "Why didn't you write a fact sheet for the minister?" That was your question, Mr Demon. That wasn't necessary. That was not necessary. Having made the journey under the new disciplinary law, every corner of this disciplinary matter had been examined. That's why I wanted to give that explanation. There's nothing more. Let me turn to your second question. What's the signal signal? Why does the SAT send the e-mail to the firm saying that it is already in the press, with the mention "Warning trigger for questions"? You see a connotation related to gravity, and to article 26. I tell you, knowing the subject, parliamentary questions will be asked. Without being offensive to Parliament, we simply wanted to tell the cabinet to pay attention to this topic because there were going to be parliamentary questions about it. Nothing more and nothing less. The proof is that my two collaborators who are copying the e-mail are those who deal with parliamentary matters at the SAT. You ask who saw what in the police. I'd like to know too. Those who have seen and have not said or done anything, are seen. With respect to Ms. Taquin's questions, as I said in my presentation, Minister De Crem said that I had not mentioned them. I confirm it. That was also not recalled when I took over. That said, there are still other files of some seriousness that are under judicial investigation and that are not exhaustively listed. Why are there differences between the police report and the images? This should be investigated. Has anyone seen the images? That's the question I'm asking myself, too. You ask the question: is it normal for a 22-year-old inspector to have the aviation police as her first assignment? This is quite possible with the current status of the police. You go back to the police without asking for a specific job and in the course of the training, you can register for mobility, either from the local police or from the federal police. I insist: if everything goes well, we will soon have a royal decree that completely reviews the selection and the first assignment. This new model will lead us to the following situation: before starting basic training, the candidate who wants to work with the police will have to choose a job, either at the local police or at the federal police. On the first day of his basic school training, the candidate knows where he's going. He will complete his internship during this training in the unit already indicated. This method gives more responsibility to the members of this unit, who will welcome this student, in order to be better prepared to face this difficult profession of police. As far as ESD (excited delirium syndrome) is concerned, I repeat what I said in response to Mr. Van Hecke. A first phase is aimed at special units and local police support units. Now we are working on a second phase, which is to organize this training for people on the front line. Mr Colebunders, who is responsible for monitoring the police report? A pv is drawn up by the fixer and is then provided with a QC mechanism. This is an internal administrative report which, at the request of the cabinet, is delivered directly by the aviation police to the cabinet. It remains to be seen through which possible control channels that would have been transited so quickly. I agree with you that if there are reports there must be a monitoring mechanism, especially for the CVs and that we need to look here at exactly what has happened. You are also asking the question, Mr President, that I also come to Mrs Kitir's nevertheless important question as to whether there is a standard procedure if there is a death. I simply wish to refer to the division of powers between the general inspection and the P Committee. They have a protocol which clearly states that, if there are serious events, death is understood, primacy goes to the P Committee and that the P Committee will examine it immediately. I think there's a philosophy behind that. That is the procedure which guarantees that it will also be carried out outside the police. Then there is the general question that, if there is a judicial inquiry, there can be no disciplinary investigation. The absolute answer to that is not no. In certain cases, the two procedures may be carried out simultaneously, provided, of course, the public prosecutor authorizes the use of a number of items for this purpose. You say, Mr Colebunders, that action will not be taken until the images are there. Yeah, because those images are so shocking and they don't add up to the story before. If we'd seen that footage sooner, it would have happened much faster. I am really asking that, in the analysis and in everyone's assessment, we place ourselves on the right date, with the right knowledge of the facts, and then make the assessment of the facts. With regard to the facebook group with 6,400 members, Mr Colebunders, that is a pity, because the initiative was very good. That was a facebook group to learn from each other. Facebook group is closed. That is a pity, because the initiative was to set up national and international police information from which everyone can learn. How well can a noble initiative be destroyed? I could now react very negatively or defensively and say: perhaps non-policemen were involved, and pensioners; what is perhaps the small number of active agents who have posted what is really unacceptable? I won't do that. I'll just say one of two things. To the active agents who would have done that: stop and think about it, or, if you really mean what you're posting there, knock it off with the police. We will make our selection machine run faster, and we will find others and better ones. We'll find other and right cops. That's what I'm saying to that 1%. I can assure you that the IDEWE research that has indeed come to light a while ago has had its concrete consequences and implementations through our services CGWB, Protection and Prevention at Work. There are countless initiatives. I agree with many of you here: we need to learn to talk, we need to have the courage to talk. Mr X should dare to address Mr Y on his, perhaps small, deviant behavior or on his small remarks, but also on large extensions. We can't afford to be deprived of that. Mr Vandenput, as far as the camera footage is concerned, the mail that went to the cabinet dates from 26 February. The death and seizure of the camera footage took place on February 27th. These are factual data as an answer to your question. You're talking about the islets in the aviation police. I take that to heart. You should know that in my previous career, I've been a lot involved with the aviation police. You may know that we are still working on a ministerial directive, a protocol with DVZ and an internal memo for repatriation. And yes, I'm gonna succeed, I'm gonna succeed, I'm gonna do it! Otherwise, I can tell you that I not only transferred a director by order measure, but also immediately put a new one in his place. I also set up a crisis manager: for that I give up one of my policy advisors, because I think it is more urgent to help there. On the basis of their joint findings, they will come forward with an action plan, perhaps during the course of this week. I would like to take this up against the idea of some of us having an audit or whatever to do with the aviation police. Know, however, that the current director and my crisis manager are doing what needs to be done: they are looking at what measures we need to take to ensure that this does not happen again. Mrs Kitir, I have already answered your first question. Maybe I did not make myself clear enough, but I did say in my speech that if the instructions at the time had been complied with on 23 and 24 February and the incident had been reported immediately to the national permanentity DAO, it would have done what I told you. Then it would have sent out some 70 SMS alerts to alert more people, and the next day it would have sent over 80 daily reports by e-mail. Then many more people would have been aware of the incident and perhaps this or that could have done more. Mrs Matz, you asked me what the fate of the officers involved was. The inspector was immediately transferred by order by Mr. Des enfants to a function that prevented her from being in contact with the public. The director, for his part, was reassigned by me, also by order. Finally, the number two decided to take a temporary step. Once the internal investigation has provided us with more details, it is not excluded that other measures of order follow. With regard to directives on the use of force, it is evident that existing and ongoing training in situations of agitated delirium syndrome (EDS) must be coupled with the relevant articles of the Police Function Act, which point in particular to the principles of proportionality and legality in the context of the use of coercion. Mrs Rohonyi, you say that you are extremely surprised to learn that the report differs at this point from the Minutes in the judicial file. Is this a serious mistake on the part of the person who prepared this report? If there is a difference between these two documents, it means that this report is not the same as the minutes, and further investigation will be required on this point. I answered Mr Vandeput's question about video images. As far as the audit is concerned, I am waiting for a report this week and I agree with you that every opportunity must be taken to build public confidence in the police. I also start with myself and the statements I make here in this chamber. Mr Hedebouw, at the time of the facts I was director-general of SAT and only months later I become Commissioner-General. So an answer to your question as to whether there was a debriefing, who participated, how the meeting went and whether the images were used there, will have to offer the internal investigation. It is certainly a relevant question, because if there was an operational debriefing, it is logical to examine the basis on which it was organized with whom, with which material the useful analysis was made and what recommendations were made where appropriate for the future. Mrs Gabriels, during our term of office, you asked if we had laid an egg in connection with EDS. An egg has already been laid for the first-line services; hopefully the second will arrive before the end of the year. I think that is what our people need, and that is very good for society and for all those who find themselves in such a situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u36	To make it clear, the police report that is being discussed here and that the minister and then director-general of the SAT received, I did not receive. That is why I have said that there are two lines of intervention: there is the judicial door and there is the internal flow of information. The judicial hatch has worked: a pv has been drawn up, the officer of the judicial police has been informed, the officer of the administrative police has been informed, the prosecutor has been asked for instructions, the prosecutor has decided to confiscate the images. From then on, the investigation has started and the secret of the investigation is valid. That hatch worked. What has not worked, I think, but I am waiting for the internal analysis that Mr De Mesmaeker has ordered, is the infflux, as described in a Federal Police Note of 2015. The police report did not get to me and, if I may add, I have heard it through what Mr De Mesmaeker has just said here, the Director-General of the Administrative Police has temporarily stepped aside because he was not aware. To answer the question of what has been said, for example, at the level of the Management Committee, I reasonably assume that I have not been informed of the facts, not even on the Management Committee. The other question was whether I was informed by the court. I wasn't informed by the parquet, in this one. When an investigation is under way in the public prosecutor's office, the disciplinary authorities are informed, as described in two circulars from the College of Attorneys-General at the courts of appeal. The COL4/2003 and the COL8/2014 indeed determine the way in which the judicial authorities inform the disciplinary authorities. So I wasn't informed by the court because I'm not a disciplinary government. The parquet is not supposed to inform me. If I have understood this correctly, the disciplinary government at the administrative pillar, DGA, has not been informed either. I wasn't informed about the ambassador's visit either. I haven't been informed of that at any time. It is therefore necessary to examine why the administrative flow of information to the federal police hierarchy has not happened. I look forward to the results of that investigation. I would immediately like to link the question relating to the images. Were the images stopped? The images weren't stopped in the communications at the parquet. The parquet has confiscated the footage. If the footage had been stopped, we might not have seen them today. The images are the subject of the judicial investigation. Did I see the footage? I didn't see the footage. Who saw the footage from the federal police, from the services of the Directorate-General of Administrative Police? I can't tell you that. This will also have to be the subject of the internal investigation. From this morning's information, I understand that the P Committee has launched a monitoring investigation into who had access to the footage. The footage is important in the judicial investigation. The researchers in this study are the P Committee. That is an independent body, independent of the police, which I am allowed to assume on 1 May, and was succeeded by Mr Fontaine and then by Mr De Mesmaeker, that this investigation will be carried out thoroughly to provide the necessary answers for the victim's wife. Actually, I've already answered the infoflux you requested. Who had to tell me about this case? The DAO. But the DAO gets the information from the field units: the LPA. At the PCPA level, who knew? I can't tell you. This is part of the ongoing internal investigation. When the DAO is not informed, this means that it is not in a position to give the facts at the morning meeting that we have three times a week in the company of the DAO, the DOJ with the internal SAT, the justice SAT and with an advisor of my service. The DAO, in my view, did not receive the necessary information related to the death and the facts that we were able to see now on the images. Then there was a question from Mrs Taquin concerning informing the Minister. The law on integrated police clearly states that, as regards the Directorate-General for Administrative Police, the Minister of the Interior and the Directorate-General for Judicial Police, the Minister of Justice can and may maintain direct contact with the Directorate-General in the relevant matters. The Minister may be directly informed by the Directorate-General for Administrative Police. Internally, the Directorate-General for Administrative Police did not inform me. As to being aware of the facts. The DG has stepped aside because he is not aware of the file. So he didn't inform me either. Internal research is very important there. The question of access to the criminal record as disciplinary government is asked by the disciplinary government. In this context, as a result of these acts committed by the aviation police in Gosselies, it is the administrative column of the relevant disciplinary authority which must request access to the judicial file. As regards police reports and the quality of the minutes, there is a clear ministerial directive MFO-3 which defines the quality requirements for judicial documents. For administrative information, a number of fact sheets are also included in that Ministerial Letter. In this case, I was not a recipient of the police report, so I cannot give you an evaluation of the police report that was drawn up at the time. As far as the aviation police are concerned, you say there are signs that there would be problems with those aviation police. Together with the cabinet at the time, when we knew that for example at LPA BruNat Zaventem there were serious problems following an audit of the General Inspection, we sent a crisis manager to LPA BruNat one of my advisors to see what the real problem was and to find out which recommendations had to be implemented in that audit. At that time, the chief responsible was replaced by a new head of the aviation police who, at the time I left, on 1 May 2018, was still in the process of implementing those measures. During that period, an action plan was drawn up and more so to respond to the recommendations. Through the current Commissioner-General, you can obtain an overview of exactly what is happening in that action plan. What happened after Jonathan Jacob? Jonathan Jacob died in a cell in the local police. At that time, I was still a member of the local police. I was also a member of the permanent committee for the local police. At that time, together with Paul Putteman, Dendermonde's chief of police at the time and later the DGR within the federal police, we started a working group to see how better action could be taken by policemen in small spaces. The reports of the P Committee relating to the Jonathan Jacob case date from 2014 and 2016. As Mr De Mesmaeker said, after a study, it was decided to transform the special units currently in existence in the local police force into special assistance teams. That is where the GPI 81 came from. Indeed, priority was given to training in small spaces for the people of those special assistance teams within the local police and to the special units within the federal police. As a result of this work, I note that the joint working group on interventions specifically for psychiatric patients for intervention teams continues the work. I know that there is a lot of evolution there, as explained last week. It is indeed very important that the intervention staff of the local police and the federal police also receive the necessary training. Already before 2018, the basic training, still in Mrs Milquet's time, was reformed with attention to violence control, an extension of the training for six months, in order to be able to test police people even better in a kind of probation period. I do not know if this is the case now, but one of the directors of the police schools was also responsible for reviewing the whole basic training, again, to see if we needed to refine and adapt the basic training further. I think I've explained most of the things I've been asked to do. Of course, if there are any further questions, I can still answer them. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: Thank you very much, Mrs De Bolle. Then we will proceed to the replies according to the same system that we started with this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u37	Madam President, Mr President, we are right to have a very long session here. That's also appropriate, given the circumstances. We have noted, however, that there has been a repetition of the questions. There are not infinitely many questions that can be asked, not to the people sitting across the table today. They replied extensively to the questions. A lot of clarity has been created. If we are talking about flashing lights, such as the death itself, then it is a heavy signal to the groups that completely ignored that flashing light during the previous legislature. They did not think it was necessary to carry out monitoring work, which is, however, the job of this House. I understand, too, because it wasn't a flashing light. It's being unfairly pushed forward like a flashing light... [[Objections to some banks]] Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: Colleagues, let Mr De Roover speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u38	I understand the excitement. It was not a flashing light, because at that time there was nowhere to give the impression that the unfortunate death was the result of the police action. That's the crux of this story. We have all heard from the media that there was not only a police report that we would have said on the police report that the stocking was finished with it, but, in my opinion, the system would have been seriously failing, because a police report could contain errors, but that the police would also have started an investigation. That means that any errors in that police report were still being investigated. That's crucial in this operation. Thus, as laid down in the regulations, it could be assumed that the parking lot would light the flashing light if disciplinary or disciplinary measures were needed or where appropriate. You answered that very clearly. The parquet didn't do that, although that's her assignment. That leads us to look at this further, because it is not because we have been able to find here today, with the three people who have been invited, that the machinery has been rigged somewhere, that those who have really failed should not be invited here. I think we should be careful with anachronisms. We are wiser today than in the period it happened and the many months after that. Fortunately, that finally means that we need to act in a correct way. I understand from Mr De Mesmaeker that the internal investigation is ongoing. The first measures were taken. I think half the work here is unacceptable. Here, all those responsible must be 'disciplined' as is the rule. The fact that one follows the rules and does not simply give one's own interpretation of the possibility of disciplinary action is also a fortunate thing. After all, we must operate within the rules of the rule of law. I think this hearing could end. Everyone is free to ask questions, of course, but I think they will be variations on the same theme. I don't think the theme should end here for us. I don't think so at all. There are still things that need to surface. Not only to clarify what has happened and to take the necessary measures, but above all to avoid this in the future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my speech. In so far as positions based on facts are taken, I believe that today we have learned lessons and taken steps forward. Of course, if some people want the facts to be based on their point of view, we will not get a millimeter further. That seems to me to be the wrong approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u39	"Madame Khattabi, you're asking me if I feel responsible. No, we didn't do anything wrong." I'm talking about political responsibility and you're answering me for the fault. Minister, in doing so, you are at the same level of responsibility as other actors. I probably have a higher esteem for your function than you do. Since the notion of individual political responsibility seems obscure to some, it seems to me that it is time to look at a precise definition and an effective practice of individual political responsibility of a minister. It is a matter of bringing political responsibility in the person of the Minister to coincide with his or her administrative competence. It is important to do so because it is a just and democratic solution. This is a fair solution because, in the event of a malfunction due to the application of a policy, it seems to me normal that accountability and the threat of resignation weigh on the one who defines this policy. This is a democratic solution in re-establishing the chain of responsibility of civil servants. Agents are accountable to their minister, who himself is accountable to Parliament, who is responsible to the electors. In this way, parties and party presidents are out of play. Minister, you said that you consulted your majority partners and that they did not demand your resignation. I am not asking for it either, we are not concerned about this issue in this House. It is true that this case has highlighted the limit of the notion of political responsibility in our practices and in our culture. I am saying this in this case, but it is true that there have been others before. I am not aiming exclusively at what is happening here, but I think it is time we were able to anchor this issue of individual political responsibility in our political culture. We owe it to our administrations, we owe it to all the actors involved in such cases, we owe it to our fellow citizens who do not understand what is happening and who think that we are organising impunity between us when there is a question of accountability.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u40	Madam Chair, thank you for the important meeting. Minister, first of all, you have expressed your condolences to the family – like all of us. However, I think there is a terrible gap between your empathy today and the lack of action and reaction on your part and on the part of the administration for the past two years. You say you forgot, saying it's not a strategy because you have nothing to gain from forgetting. I'm not pretending you forgot. On the other hand, I think you might have a lot to lose by saying that you knew and did nothing. Then you say that no flashing lights were on, but there had been plenty since February 26th. There was one on March 1 and two with the ambassador. They were no longer flashers, but a lighted room, minister. If, at some point, you have not seen these flashers and you feel that you are not responsible and that you have not made a mistake, I nevertheless have the feeling that you may have committed the act of letting your firm do business and not asking it to assess the situation sufficiently. Your firm, Mr. Jambon, implies your political responsibility. The one you occupy is the one that is most expected to be prudent, secure and foresight, since it serves to guarantee – with the administration – the internal security of our country as a whole. In that sense, you failed. More generally, Mr. De Mesmaeker, as you said, it is essential to choose more for actions than for words. There was Blankenberge, there was Jozef Chovanec, there was the Facebook group – where police officers obviously adopt unacceptable behaviors. We need action! Better selection, support and training is needed. I am also thinking of logistical means and workload. Similarly, the KUL standard must be reviewed for local fonts. The will to punish must also be confirmed and it is certainly necessary to give itself the means to do so. That's what we expect from you. Not all clarifications will be made today, unfortunately. It is regrettable, but we need actions – and real ones. Finally, it is important to recognize his mistakes. Error is human, but here it is tragic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not waste too many words on it today. We will have to wait until there is more clarity, including on the police report and the judicial investigation, if that is ever concluded, but also on the internal investigation. What exactly is going on with the footage? I wonder, and you seem to be wondering as well, Mr De Mesmaeker. However, you are the one who will have to come and give us an answer. This will clarify things, for example where the responsibilities are and where the mistakes have been made. It is crucial to know who saw the images when and why they did not get to those responsible at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u42	First of all, thank you to all those who have given correct answers here today. It is clear: no one knew about anything at some point, and everyone has resigned to that same, wrong police report. I think that's where things clearly went wrong. It is absolutely true that we have to investigate everything and everything has to come up. That will take some time, and we need to take up our role, but let us also look to the future. The future after the Jonathan Jacob case or the Jozef Chovanec case teaches us that it can be useful to double-check such a police report on such matters. Let's take that with us on such matters. We don't know who tried to cover up the where, when, and how, but this needs to be cleared up. And maybe one of the instruments for that is a double check on police reports. Thank you again for your complete openness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u43	Mr Jambon, you mentioned three sources along which you were given the information. Three times you said I couldn't help it, I couldn't know, I didn't make any mistakes. I call that calimeropolitics. My father used to say to me, "If you don't do something, you can't do anything wrong." In theory, therefore, you are right, but the reality is that as a minister you have to accept your responsibility. You weren't just a minister to shake hands, to have conversations and to be on television. There was a whole device that you were responsible for as Home Secretary, the entire apparatus of the police. The only thing you're hiding behind is this. "I suppose a report I get is automatically correct." If that were the case, we would not need a committee of inquiry or a committee of inquiry. If everyone's doing their job the way they're supposed to. But it was your job as Minister to make sure that everything works properly. But in that whole file, you just didn't do anything. Nothing. And that's what we're asking ourselves. I heard Mr. De Mesmaeker. There's no check on the police report. Do we think that is normal, that they are one-sided and that there is no control of a police report? There's only one person who's gonna make a police report, and that's the truth. That comes with the Minister, and that's a truth. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Chairman: Excuse me, Mr Colebunders, apparently that is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u44	I think I did say that there is a QC mechanism on the minutes, and fortunately so. For this police report, which is not a police report, we need to check whether and by whom a quality check has been carried out. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u45	Then you have to ask yourself: how come this did not happen and, if so, what has been done about it? Mr Jambon, you just said that you were getting a whole bunch of files every day and that it cannot be that you had to check all these reports and check that every report was correct. We didn't ask you to do that. This is a death, Mr. Jambon. I have still not received an answer to the question I have asked: how often does such a file occur with a suspicious death or with a death in a police intervention? Is that weekly, daily, monthly, annual? There has been no response so far. None of you three. I'm sorry to hear that. The piece I am most concerned about, Mr De Mesmaeker, although I am glad that you condemn it, is that facebook group. If I understand you correctly, was that an official thing and would that facebook group be used to get better operation and better communication with the police? Apparently, there were even high-ranking people on those Facebook groups. If you pass so much racism and sexism, you rightly say that this must stop, but by removing that facebook group, the matter has not been resolved. I think I want to convene a separate committee just to know who's in those facebook groups, whatever high-ranking people. This needs to be investigated. I want to roll that ball to Secretary De Crem. This has to be figured out to the bone. That means your device is sick. You're talking about 1%. I don't know. I see 6,400 members, people who have to pass on a badge number to get into that closed facebook group. Then I'm worried. A finger in the air that must stop or else leave the police is not enough. There's gotta be some hard words here. This has to be cleared up, because I do not want a second or third minister to whom we must ask the same questions in the future. There is a zero tolerance for fascism, racism and sexism in the police and this needs to be addressed seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u46	Madam President, I would like to thank everyone for the answers. I have not yet received any answers to two questions. Mr Jambon, you say your cabinet made no mistakes. But who did make the mistakes? I suppose you're referring to the investigation that's ongoing. Mr De Mesmaeker, I would like to return to that note. I haven't heard any names of who made that note in the hierarchy. I suppose that's what's gonna come up in that investigation, too. I think that person has already been identified today, and does that person have a disciplinary procedure on her or his pants? Is that already going on, or does the investigation need to be completely closed first in order to do so? There's something very strange about it. I wrote down the chronology here. Mrs De Bolle says she was not aware of anything, nor of that note requested by Minister Jambon's cabinet. The Cabinet is requesting that note. I understand that note was drawn up by the aviation police. Those aviation police are taking that note to your cabinet. There's gonna be a name under that note. If that note is distributed here in committee, I do not think that we should create privacy matters in order to obtain that name. Mrs De Bolle, I find it strange that, in function of CG, you do not get that note from the hierarchy of this very important fact. I find that very strange. It is also necessary to examine why you did not receive that note from the board. I think there are daily or weekly contacts between you and the cabinet. I find that very strange. This only confirms that the aviation police are involved and that there is a cover-up here. I hope that the investigation can happen quickly, bring clarity and then get back to committee. That is one of the main reasons why there has been such slowness. So I hope that we can get that on the table of our committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u47	Thank you all for your answers. We can sit here for a long time, Minister, and disagree. You say you didn't have enough information. I say that you had the opportunity to request information and take the necessary steps. That then is a question of equal or wronging one another. It doesn't matter. Above all, we need to see what lessons we can draw from this. Let us hope that we will never be confronted with this again and that we will never again be in such a situation. This is not a pleasant committee meeting. The answers we received today are also not pleasant and reassuring. That is why I am pleased that the investigations, which should have taken place perhaps two years ago, have finally begun. As soon as the internal investigation and the examination of the P Committee are completed, I shall look at the chairman of the Internal Affairs Commission and at the Commissioner-General, and we will have to get to work on the recommendations. I was also a member of the Terro Committee. We have also invested a lot of time and energy in that. I sincerely hope that, if there are any recommendations that have been worked out in detail, because one has been able to reconstruct to the bone who should have done what, they will also be followed. Apparently, the recommendations made in the John Jacob case were not implemented and are insufficient. Unfortunately, we are in the same situation again. Let us hope that those who see the gravity of the matter today will remain aware of this when recommendations are made and that those responsible will ensure that these recommendations are translated into action so that such tragedies are avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u48	This morning's auditions leave me puzzled. They remind me of the little phrase "Circulate, there's nothing to see!", As if everyone was well in their sneakers: "I had the information, but I didn't communicate it, for various reasons." I find this quite damaging. Of course, we will not do all the light today, but what we are sure is that it is impossible to go back. Since then, two and a half years have passed in a guilty inaction. The conclusion of this morning's hearings: everyone in his soul and conscience must see how he could have either avoided what happened, or instead do everything to ensure that responsibilities are established as soon as possible so that a family does not remain waiting for unbearable answers that do not come, unable to mourn and that the police and the political class, as a whole, are not once again splattered by a kind of inaction and impunity that would prevail in this case. The balance sheet is very heavy and severe. I will not go back to my dissatisfaction with the answers. We have stressed it sufficiently. Even if we are able to see, through the diligent investigation (or other hearings) of the elements that would be brought to us, we will never repair the evil that has been done, that is to say this tragic death, but above all the guilty inaction that followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u49	I thank everyone for their answers. One of the answers given by Mr Jambon is that none of the information he had at the time allowed him to act, even though he was aware of Mr Chovanec's death. Mr Jambon, what you lacked to act, whereas in cases like those I mentioned earlier (Adamou, Jacob), the ministers of the time who had your portfolio of powers had acted and had used the legal means at their disposal. I also note from your hearing that many – if not too many – of our questions remain unanswered today, because we depend on the results of the most recent disciplinary investigation under way. Why such a mismatch between police relations and images? Who have had access to the images or should have brought the information back to you? As for the airport police, is it working properly today or not? It is not acceptable that we have had to wait for the public disclosure of these images to launch an investigation in order to obtain, at least we hope, answers to these questions. As some have pointed out, you all have a legal basis to act, both at the disciplinary and political levels, to question the causes of this death and to establish the responsibilities of each and every one. You have given us explanations, which unfortunately remain partial. However, despite these, I still do not understand your lack of curiosity, your lack of proactivity and, particularly with regard to Mr Jambon, your lack of sense of responsibility in this case. Indeed, we had to wait for the seriousness of the facts to jump to your face for measures – or, in any case, half-measures – to be taken. This situation is unacceptable, both for the citizens, who offend this case, and for the police, who are tired of being splattered, and for the members of the Chovanec family, who have the very unpleasant impression that we are hiding things from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u50	Madam President, I would like to thank the three speakers. We have heard a detailed factual account today. Thank you for that. I think the main conclusion is that the investigation will now have to show exactly what has gone wrong. Two and a half years later and so far too late. I think there is a general consensus on this too. Still, I still have a lot of questions to ask. Now we're about to find out what's good about this case. Finally! But what are the things we don't know yet? The images we don't know from other things. Events in cells or places where there are no cameras. A question with which I am still concerned, because I am not reassured, is whether steps have actually been taken to discover any additional dark numbers, such as Chovanec's death, and to prevent any unexpected appearances from falling out of the closet. Has anything been done internally? Mr Jambon, you say that there was not enough evidence to ask questions about the original dossier. And no, I don't think we should distrust every police report. That is a suggestion that I also heard a colleague disprove, by the way. But if a man dies after a police action, that's an exceptional situation and then alarm bells should have gone off. You might not have known, but you should have done everything you could to know. I still have the impression today that you have not done so, especially if there are contradictions in the first police report. Let me give you an example. A doctor arrived at 11:25 p.m. to find out that Chovanec had no medical problem, but his friends came to testify at 11:30 p.m. that he was indeed suffering from mental problems for which he was normally taking medication. That day, however, he had not taken it. That in itself is already a contradiction from the original report. Is it so unthinkable that if someone dies, there will be deeper digging on the basis of a report that already contains contradictions? What does it say about the passivity of our policy that such a death is not explained more thoroughly? You say today, we will take your word for it, and you have not seen the images. You're saying you weren't aware. Okay, but the question that matters is, why didn't you see the footage? Why weren't you informed? We are talking about serious dysfunction, serious negligence or cover-up. Those are the three options on the table. That is why I believe we should also talk about political and policy responsibility. Another question I still have to ask you, for all three of you, who have been poked and beaten as political and political leaders: what lessons and conclusions do you draw for yourself, more than this individual dossier? Now that you know what has happened or has not happened in this file, would you still act in the same way today, if you were to see another press release like this again? Or do you think, even for yourself, that things should be dealt with differently? I would have liked to have heard that from all three of you. Finally, Mr Jambon, you have the ultimate responsibility as Minister of the Interior at the time, and you refer to the fact that you do not remember the actual story. Just because you can't remember that is the problem. That a man dies in a police cell after his stay, and you don't remember that: that's the problem. The problem is also that our system of security and police after previous tragedies, including colleagues, has already referred a number of times to the death of Jonathan Jacob, who is still not more thorough. Mr Jambon, you referred to the rule of law in your first explanatory statement. What does it say about our rule of law that this has happened and that we have had to wait for the images that have been leaked in the media? We can all express our condolences to the family now, but that family is still waiting for justice. And so, when it comes to the rule of law, the main task of a rule of law is to ensure security and security for all citizens. If successive services or mechanisms fail, then the Minister responsible for the Interior is the last in line, then the Minister is the final responsible. Mr Jambon, your memory may fail you, but with your lack of questioning, your lack of thoroughness and sense of urgency in 2018, despite the fact that your attention was drawn to the matter through all kinds of channels, I think you have abandoned the rule of law. I find that a disturbing conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-01-55-commissie-ic255x.u51	I am surprised to hear grunts when we have heard each other with the greatest respect and the greatest of modesty, given the circumstances. We're talking about the death of a man, and we hear grunts. This is completely unacceptable. For the rest, Madam President, answers can be brought with a lot of aplomb, to repeat, like a striped disc, ten times the same elements. However, most colleagues and I are not convinced. Acts could have been taken immediately to inquire about the situation, given the many signals you had at different levels. There have been some at the level of the minister's office, but certainly also at certain levels of the administrative hierarchy. Which ones? We'll have to figure it out. Madam President, if I take the floor, I would like to know what action we are going to take on all this. I'm not convinced, far from it. In other words, I ask for an order of business. I'm not convinced we're done with this case. I'm even convinced the opposite is true. Before I ask you a point of order of business, when I hear the explanations given to us, I think things have been done between the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police (DAO, operational affairs) and the aeronautical police. It will be necessary to identify exactly who knew what and how the information came back. Most importantly, it will be necessary to hear from these people whether or not they have traced the information. At this stage, we have the statements we have heard, but this does not yet mean that this information will be confirmed by the other levels of the hierarchy, which may claim to be the opposite. Maybe they'll tell us that they've brought up the information, and we don't know at this point. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to continue our discussions and to make this clear, at least in such a way that, in the context of an adversarial debate, we can have clearer elements on the precise point of the feedback and the viewing of images. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: The agenda now includes an item on the order of business. I heard the replies. Most of the replies were reflections. I think we can finish the debate. I thank our speakers for coming here for this long committee meeting.
