ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Özlem Özen, Ludivine Dedonder, Sophie Thémont, Patrick Prévot, Evita Willaert, Julie Song. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed at the Conference of Presidents on how to proceed with this proposal. I agreed with the Conference that next Wednesday I would report further on the follow-up to the opinions requested from the Court of Auditors, for which there was no majority, but also to the Council of State, for which a full opinion was requested. I would therefore like to postpone the debate until we have these opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u3	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marc Goblet, Jan Bertels, Laurence Hennuy, Barbara Creemers, Caroline Taquin, Robby De Caluwé, Els Van Hoof, Catherine Fonck, Sofie Merckx, Kathleen Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Rigot, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u5	Mr President, on to the soft sector of care, I would say. The N-VA will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u6	I apologise, Mrs Depoorter, but the reporter is just coming in and would like to present his report briefly. I apologize for interrupting you, Mrs. Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u7	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was agreed in committee that, as the written report would not have time to be validated, an oral report would be made in plenary session. I will therefore try to be as succinct as possible to present to you this important report, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, which met on 16 June, on the examination of the draft law to sustain the White Blouse Fund and to allocate its resources for the year 2020. Mr. Marc Goblet, the main author of the bill, first of all, gave an account of the situation and recalled the origin and raison d'être of the Fund. He also recalled that it had been agreed to set up a working group to allocate funds for 2019, which had been done, but also to allocate funds in the best possible way to meet the needs in 2020. It is with happiness that a bill came into the Health Committee, supported by ten signatories. This is a bill that not only targets nursing practitioners, but also all the functions that can relieve the work of front-line nurses and enable them to be closer to patients. An evaluation of the scheme is scheduled for 30 March 2021. The bill and the amendments were the subject of a comprehensive agreement by all parties that had undertaken to sign the bill. Mr. Marc Goblet also recalled the remarkable work done by the PS staff member, Cédric Norre, to coordinate the work. He thanked all the signatory parties for their cooperation in the working group in order to reach a balanced solution and agreement. Ms. Katleen Depoorter, co-signator of the bill, pointed out that the proposal had evolved well to achieve a balanced proposal. She was pleased to see that the goal of allowing active nurses to be more present at the bedside of patients had been met. She welcomed the availability of resources for home-based nurses and expressed satisfaction that sexual abuse centres had not been forgotten. Laurence H annoyance, for her part, also stressed the importance of this balanced agreement. Many things remain to be done, she said, in terms of salary revalorisation. This is a first step, but we must continue to requalify the nursing profession. Ms. Caroline Taquin stated that the MR group was satisfied with the progress made in this White Blouse Fund. She also noted that she was pleased to note that the employee nurses component, as well as the independent nurses component, had been taken into consideration. In addition, she was pleased that the aspect of nurses in charge of sexual abuse had been taken into consideration. Ms. Els Van Hoof (CD&V) stressed that the bill under consideration was the result of constructive cooperation and a balanced compromise in the above-mentioned working group. She also praised the involvement and motivation of nurses and caregivers during the Coronavirus crisis. During the preparatory work on the texts, Ms Van Hoof stressed the importance of social consultation, as evidenced by the developments in the bill. Ms. Sofie Merckx (PVDA-PTB) recalled the origins of this bill. It is clear from this that a great deal of progress has been made. She also recalled what led us all to act. It is obviously the protests and strikes that took place in 2019 to express the anger of the white coats. The proposal, she said, guaranteed sustainable funding for the White Blouse Fund and regulated the independent nursing component. For the Open Vld, Mr Robby De Caluwé recalled that the budget had been drawn up rigorously. He was satisfied with the work that a number of parties had done. The bill under consideration provides a significant amount of money for the creation of jobs for health-care workers in the care of bed and breakfast patients. He also welcomed the emphasis placed on the initial objective, namely more staff in hospitals and in home care, with regard to the allocation of resources. Mr Jan Bertels (sp.a) stressed, as a co-author of the text, the good parliamentary cooperation that surrounded the long genesis of the bill under consideration. The proposed regulations are intended to sustain the resources of the White Blouse Fund. Thanks to the effective work of the social partners, the resources for 2019 allocated to the various "Maribel Social" Funds are even better used today. The scheme for self-employed persons has also been the subject of effective consultation in which the spirit of the White Blouse Fund has been taken into account. Catherine Fonck, co-chair of the bill, for her part, also highlighted the excellent work done through positive cooperation between the various interlocutors. First of all, it pointed to the effective consultation between the various parties in Parliament under the leadership of Mr Marc Goblet. She then praised the collaboration between Parliament and the government. She referred to fruitful cooperation between politics and actors on the ground. The sustainability of the White Blouse Fund is a first step in the right direction. On the DeFI side, Sophie Rohonyi thanked her colleagues for having concluded this agreement, which allows the White Blouse Fund to be sustained. She obviously pointed out that her group would support this bill. She asked a number of questions, including the monitoring of the allocation of the Fund. How can the firing be corrected if the allocation of resources has not been carried out correctly in particular? All of his questions were answered by the various co-sponsors during the Public Health Committee. At the level of the articles, a series of amendments were tabled by various co-sponsors. All the articles and all the amendments were voted unanimously and the text as such was voted on, which is something that all the political groups welcome. I also welcome this, and I have no doubt that today we will continue in the same direction. Thank you all for your attention and congratulations for the work done!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u9	Mr President, the N-VA Group has signed this bill and will, of course, support it. As Mr Rigot said, there was a very good cooperation in dealing with this bill. We have all worked very well together for the care. I was very pleased that everyone at the table had the care of the patient, the nurse and the care professional in mind and that there was a very good will around the table, or at these times around the computer. With this bill, we will really allocate the funds for 2020 and the institutions can really get started, the home nurses can actually get started and we will take care of the patient's bed. That's the one that counts in the whole story. In corona times we have seen the distressing conditions in which the care staff worked, both at home and at home, as well as in the institutions. In fact, a number of eyes have been opened there that may not have been completely open before. Investing in more hands on the bed. The N-VA Group has been in favour of this for a long time and is very pleased to have been able to participate in it. I would like to remind you that we have come this way and started it in a special way. The N-VA Group has always called for a legal framework to be drawn up before we fill it out and allocate the funds. We have now followed the opposite path. However, this reverse path leads to a very nice and harmonious result. This will also lead to more hands on the bed by means of the control mechanisms that have been introduced. Mrs Van Camp has been advocating this in the Chamber for years. That is a good conclusion to the many work they have done in this respect. I think it is very important that we have put in place a monitoring mechanism, namely an evaluation at the beginning of 2021. For example, next year we can see whether these needs have been effectively met and whether the funds invested have also resulted in more care time and more hands on the bed. So we will be able to check that we have achieved our goals. For my group, it is also very important that home nurses are included in this. These people go home to their patients every day and follow them very closely in the path of their long-term illness. We know we have enough people trained as nurses, but the problem is that our nurses and caregivers aren't holding up. The pressure is too great and the work is too difficult to combine with their social life. Now we are trying to ease that pressure by making sure that they can call on more colleagues and be better framed. The educational aspect is also very important, because in order to be able to provide optimal care, these people must, of course, also receive optimal training. For the home nurses we provide internships that work with a kind of mentoring because there too we want to tackle the drop-out. We will ensure that people who have not been active for more than 3 years as nurses can take an internship with a home nurse. This way they can get back into the job or record it for the first time. We will now create this very important framework. Are all the problems solved now? Of course not, but it is a nice step forward. I would also like to thank colleagues for providing training for nurses working in the reception centres for women who are victims of sexual violence, at the time set up by Secretary of State Zuhal Demir. This is very important at this corona time when we see that there is a bit more intrafamilial and sexual violence. As a result, there are more women in need who have to address these centres in a precarious situation, where they are entitled to the best care of those who are really trained to do so. We're gonna answer that, too. Finally, we know that the administration is the largest ballast for people in the healthcare sector. The administration must of course be very precise, but it weighs very heavily. We are now making arrangements so that the administration can be outsourced. That will help the home nurses forward and provide more care time. That way, there's more time to care for the patient. That is why we are in favour of this proposal. Colleagues, thank you all once again. We have achieved a good result. Commission President Goblet has managed the meetings very well. I think we can all be enthusiastic about this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been three years now that the white coats are waiting for recognition of their profession. If they expect an improvement in their working conditions, it is first and foremost so that patients are better treated. A staff who have been in arrears for too long, but who have not asked 10,000 questions to respond to the crisis. They gave themselves without counting, to the detriment of their health and their families, when they were already exhausted. Today, we can give them a first answer, promised for eight months: the White Blouse Fund, a budget of 402 million euros now reserved each year to strengthen the employment, training and supervision of nurses, whether employed or self-employed, in hospital or in outpatient settings. Ecolo-Groen, of course, welcomes the unanimous vote on this law in the Health Committee. This issue required many exchanges within and outside the working groups, in order to finally reach a balanced agreement. I thank all colleagues, cabinets and administration for this rather new but ultimately constructive method of work. The implementation modalities of the White Blouse Fund include a range of benchmarks and evaluations, which will ultimately ensure that the funds are used for additional use. This is obviously crucial, and environmentalists will continue to propose improvements to the scheme. But neither will it be necessary to put senseless pressure on the sector to achieve its objectives, while it is still on the bridge to manage a crisis that is not over. We must not lose sight of the fact that it took us six months to reach this text. We are not going to require the sector to have far-reaching results in terms of short-term recruitment. It would be a little "hospital making fun of charity," without a bad pun. This bill is an important step in improving the working conditions of nurses, but we must not rest on our laurels either. The White Blouse Fund must be the first step in a much more comprehensive plan for the health care sector, and more broadly for the non-market sector that is back on the streets today. The health crisis we are experiencing reminds us every day that the professions of health and personal care are pillars of our society. Today, we don't give them a gift. We're just giving them a budget so that their working conditions reach an international standard of eight non-nursing patients. It is a substantial budget, I admit, but it is also a reflection of the chronic disinvestment in health care in recent years. As we have said, the White Blouse Fund is only a partial response to the legitimate demands of nurses. It is therefore essential for environmentalists not to let go of the fight. First of all, the government must take the task of upgrading the nursing profession, whether in terms of wage conditions, working conditions or fair requalification of the profession. The question of upgrading is obviously a prerequisite for achieving a sustainable increase in employment in the profession in the long term. This is why environmentalists will remain attentive to the government's ongoing consultations with the sector. From promises, we must now move to action because we will no longer have to ask the sector for patience or flexibility. He's already given everything he's got. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we were already aware of the unsustainable situation of healthcare staff. Throughout the day, nurses, nurses, caregivers do everything they can. They run, provide care, handle patients and heavy loads, side by side with the pain of the sick, families and death sometimes. Already before the crisis, the lack of staff was felt. Caregivers do not count their hours, between guards and alternate hours. To treat us, these workers do not hesitate to sacrifice part of their privacy. Nevertheless, the situation is far from satisfactory. Having to wait long hours to get care is the daily life of patients who suffer and can no longer. In this vicious circle, the exasperation of patients who are insufficiently accompanied, cared for or listened to leads to an aggressiveness that makes it even more complicated for caregivers who simply struggle to exercise their profession under suitable conditions. The coronavirus attack obviously didn't fix anything. It is the caregivers who are on the front line to fight the virus. Some have left their lives there. Despite concerns and fear, they responded present and fought to provide the best care. I would like to pay tribute to all these men, especially those women, who are true heroes. We will never say it enough: thank you for everything, thank you for your work, we owe you so much! Colleagues, there are issues that go beyond the political divide, and this is certainly one of them. I am particularly pleased to be able to present to you this bill, co-signed by all the political groups, which perpetuates and implements the White Blouse Fund. With this text, every year 402 million euros will be used to recruit staff, improve training and provide better support for young workers. This is the result of a dialogue that began before the crisis and continued with the ambition to improve working conditions and patient care. As chairman of the working group, I would like here to welcome all the political groups that participated in our working group, and to thank the social partners who have been consulted widely. I also really want to associate with these thanks the important work that was carried out by my collaborator, Cédric Norré. While sometimes the discussions have been complicated, they have always been constructive and have led to a balanced proposal that will enable staff to be recruited quickly in accordance with social dialogue. More arms at the patient's bedside: this has always been our priority. We are aware, however, that the work has not been completed and that other measures need to be presented to upgrade nursing and nursing occupations. It is in part up to the social partners, together with the government, to continue work to improve the conditions of healthcare workers. As I pointed out in committee, our working group will continue its consideration of the evaluation before 31 March, but will also address various issues that could not be taken into account in the proposal presented today. We have committed ourselves to evaluating the law in a few months to monitor the progress of social dialogue and to check whether jobs have been created to improve care. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already discussed this text sufficiently, I will not be longer. I will therefore conclude by thanking you once again for this work of dialogue, which goes beyond the traditional divides and is an example for our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Flemish interest is pleased that the budget for 2020 has also been allocated for more hands on the bed. We are sincerely satisfied that we can offer the people who have been proclaimed heroes by us and by the people more than just the sincere but merely symbolic applause, which many of us take part in every evening at 8 p.m. However, with applause or symbolic actions, even if they are sincere and undoubtedly appreciated, with good intentions and sincere intentions, one will buy little or nothing at the end of the day, and certainly no additional hands on the bed, no additional training and no additional support that is so much needed in this sector. The Flemish interest, Mr President, is of the opinion that this proposal meets at least the urgent needs of the concern. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Flemish interest will support this proposal with great enthusiasm. Mr President, I could leave it at that, but unfortunately I still have something to say. As a group, as my good colleague Dominiek Sneppe said in committee, we have a somewhat double feeling about this proposal and its handling. I'm declaring myself. Last Tuesday, during the discussion of this proposal, a special phenomenon occurred in the Committee on Health. On the one hand, everyone gave pats on the back to everyone for the sake of good cooperation, on the other hand, there was some kind of political masturbation in the hope of putting the plumes of this proposal on their own shoulders. I leave in the middle with which hand what happened, ladies and gentlemen, but it was often an adorable spectacle in which I sometimes have to admit that I almost got the tears in the eyes of so much unity, of so many compliments flying around. It seemed, after almost a common singing stand of kumbaya, at some point almost that a government of national unity would be formed. Unfortunately, it didn't come of that. Unfortunately for the people of this country, that didn't happen. After all, the great, self-declared democrats in this hemisphere and other houses of democracy, afraid of new elections, are in the process of forming what is then called relative majority governments. In doing so, it seems that a majority of only 120 Members of Parliament should be sought. The democratically elected colleagues of the PVDA should not be taken into account, nor should the democratically elected members of the Flemish Interest be taken into account. To paraphrase Obelix: weird democrat, Mr. Bouchez. Colleagues, the suggestion that only 120 Members should be taken into account is actually a bit bizarre, especially in the context of this legislative proposal. Without the Labour Party and the impetus this party gave in an amendment in October last year, this bill probably was not before the vote today. No, I'm not too embarrassed to admit that. The Flemish interest is not too embarrassed to say that out loud. It's called intellectual honesty, and that's something I personally am a big fan of. Ladies and gentlemen, without the support of the Flemish Interest, this proposed amendment would have been classified vertically, and we would not be voting on this proposal today. The fact that the good colleague of the PVDA in the Committee on Health claimed with a face-to-face that the support of the Flemish Interest was not necessary seems a bit like denying the light of the sun. Mr President, I will, with permission, try to convince the good colleague of current basic arithmetic. I hope I can get your help on that. I have been told that blue souls are quite good with numbers. We're going back to October last year. We note that at that time 135 MPs took part in the celebration of democracy. Mr President, perhaps you should write it down. Our friends the CDH and DéFI were abstaining. They were good for 6 votes then. 135 - 6 = 129. So we had to look for a majority of 129 members, 65 members. That worked, because 76 members of this house voted in favour, 53 votes against. Now imagine the sport that those 18 maleized Flemish Interesters had voted against. Mr President, are you still calculating? Don't worry, I'll make the calculation for you. Colleagues, if those 18 maleized Flemish Interesters had voted against, there were no 76 members for but only 58. 76................................................................................................................................................................................ That's right. 53 no votes plus 18 gives 71 votes against. Then you must explain to me, ladies and gentlemen, in which parallel universe 58 is greater than 71. Someone has to come and explain that to me, but maybe my mind is too small for that. The only logical conclusion is therefore that the amendment would have been rejected and that even the good colleagues of DéFI and the CDH could not have saved the amendment. The fact that Mrs Merckx forgot not only the role of the Flemish Interest in her account the day before yesterday, but also the fact that she claimed that the support of the Flemish Interest was not necessary can only mean one of the following two things: either an alternative arithmetic system is being used in the Communists in Belgium, which is possible and allowed...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u13	Mrs Merckx asks for the floor for a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u14	The truth has its rights. In July we proposed the same amendment and the Flemish Interest abstained, so if you had abstained in October, the amendment would have got through. You shouldn't... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u15	If you had voted against...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u16	I'm glad you finally admit it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u17	No, you abstained in July and during the sitting Mr Vermeersch was asked how he would vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u18	That's what it's about. The fact that you like alternative arithmetic...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the floor may be asked for a break and then you should not be mixed up. Mrs Merckx, finish your interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u20	Mr Vermeersch must certainly remember that during the October vote by someone I do not remember who was asked how you would vote and you said at that time that the Flemish interest might be abstaining. You voted in favour, but even if the Flemish Interest had abstained, there would have been 58 yes votes and then it would have got through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u21	Mr Creyelman, Mr Vermeersch's name has fallen. Mr Vermeersch could ask for the floor for a personal fact because her name had been mentioned by Mrs Merckx. That's the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u22	Mrs Merckx, what you have just said, and what critics and your trolls claim on the Internet, is not correct and I would therefore like to correct it. During the general discussion in the then plenary session, I was interrupted, and a member of Open Vld asked me about our voting behaviour on PVDA's amendments, which at the same time only just arrived in my mailbox. Since I had not yet seen these amendments, let alone read them in substance, I replied in an initial response that we would abstain. However, we have been very clear in the explanations of vote. Mrs Merckx, I can only add to what Mr Creyelman has said that you have repeatedly confirmed that we have delivered the crucial votes. We were well aware of that at the time, and we accepted that amendment consciously and with complete conviction. That is what Mr Creyelman is trying to clarify here. Thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u23	Mr Creyelman, I give the floor to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u24	I will be happy to do so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u25	I suggest you don't say too many names, otherwise...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u26	Mr President, at my solemn and then innocent communion soul, I promise that I will do a great deal to stop saying names. Like I said, there may be some kind of alternative arithmetic at work. You can really do that for me, ma'am. I didn't say a name. I can't stop you in mathematics, even if I don't think it's very sensible. It may explain why quite a lot of communist systems go bankrupt in time, but that is a matter for another debate. Another possibility, I think, is that the explanation is that it hurts very much, perhaps too much, to admit that the Labour Party could only lay its eggs with the support of those naughty, angry, horrible, horrible Flemish nationalists of the Flemish Interest. I can imagine that it is not very pleasant to have to explain or admit that in your midst. The temptation is perhaps very great to adapt history to good Soviet tradition until it is about right. But the truth has its rights, I'm afraid. Colleagues, if you would like to face that uncomfortable truth, that is intellectual honesty, and that is a credit to you. We were and are not too ashamed to say out loud that the amendment in question gave rise to the legislative proposal before us today. In fact, it would be a credit to you if you admitted that our support was also needed. The Flemish Interest assesses any proposal on content, not on origin. This has several advantages, but that has the great advantage that our voting behaviour becomes much easier and intellectually fairer, more so, it becomes a lot more enjoyable. You should try that, too. You don't know what happens to you. Mr President, I would like to return to the double feeling that we have with this proposal, in particular when it comes to drawing up it. We were good enough to vote, but we were not good enough to support this amendment, which started the whole train for this proposal, and that is the practical implementation and negotiation of this proposal. I'm having a little trouble with that. You, ladies and gentlemen, who are always talking about democracy and about the electorate's signal, have apparently still not understood that signal. You deliberately choose to ignore 800,000 voters once again. You deliberately choose to ignore the second largest party in this country, and I don't want to frighten you, but there might be a poll in the newspaper tomorrow. You are very consciously choosing to ignore the results of a democratic election. Understand who can understand. I can't do it. Colleagues, I can reassure you. I can promise you one thing, even more, I can assure you one thing, and that's that the bill follows.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u27	Mr President, I must admit that, after what I have just heard, I am very disappointed. When I became a Member of Parliament - I think this is an opportunity because we have all been elected by citizens and it is good to remind you - I felt the burden of responsibility, even if only by returning to this Hall that is so important and so representative for the history of our country. So, to hear extremes rise to the rostrum on a subject as important as that of the nurses who have invested body and soul in crisis while at the front; to hear these extremes speak of "democracy" by making accounts of apothecaries, excuse me but this is not the place to flout this so important word! So, yes, you have an ideal, yes, you have X thousands of voters - as long as they return to reason because we do not condemn them - but of grace, your ideal is only a decoy that only locks in fear and misery your electorate that becomes dependent on it so that you can manipulate it even more for a purely electoralist purpose! I had to say it. I've had it on my heart for a long time. Please don't insult our democracy! Do not insult the history of our country! Can I now intervene on white blouses? [[Brouhahaha]] I didn't mention a name. So, no one can talk. Is that it? Colleagues, it is indeed collective work that has been done. The MR Group has been involved in this proposal and we are constructively and logically co-signatory. As we know, nursing has a hard time creating vocations that are sufficient to meet the needs of our patients and hospitals. Recruitment is difficult. Support measures were needed for training, the attractiveness of the profession, and this required better and more calmed working conditions and, therefore, an increase in the number of nurses in our care services. In Belgium, the number of patients per nurse has declined positively in recent years. While we were still 11 patients for a nurse in 2009, we are now 9.5 patients. However, the international standard of 8 patients during the day is still to be met. The nursing profession and care continues to evolve. They are becoming increasingly complex and the work environment is becoming more sophisticated. While applause has encouraged nurses to hold on, we know that nurses have been involved with vocation and courage for a long time, and that they deserve due consideration. For the latter, for months, we have been working together to provide concrete answers. I therefore thank my colleagues and my group leader, who has invested heavily in this work, Mr Piedboeuf. I obviously welcome the substantial work that has been done by the chairman of this working group. I would like to point out this; I have done so in committee and it is important to stress this again today. Like that, democratic parties have good hours ahead of them and a lot more to build. It was necessary to decide quickly. Because we don't decree overnight after vocations, let alone having nursing candidates for our hospitals. This law responds to these findings and needs. It's not nothing. The MR Group is also pleased to have reached an agreement in working groups that goes beyond political divides and allows the resources of the White Blouse Fund to be sustained. The agreement has two components: the paid nurses component and the self-employed nurses component. This bill affects the part reserved for employees for 2020. Structural resources are planned each year to improve the situation in the health care sector. While we continue to regret that the working group did not agree on a source of funding, we welcome these means for paid staff, as well as the funding of sexual violence centres. The White Blouse Fund will also be used to train nurses in these centres. In particular, we have proceeded by way of amendments. We also welcome the allowance that will be awarded for administrative support to independent nurses. In addition to the exemption from nursing care, the practice of the profession at home carries with it certain administrative burdens. That's not all! In a few moments, ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to take into account our motion for a resolution aimed at providing logistical and financial support, but also a fair recognition, in public institutions, of independent nursing. To enable the nurse or caregiver to focus more on patient care, the bill that brings us together today provides that INAMI can put in place a system of allowances to intervene and thus reduce administrative burdens. This proposal has been under discussion for many months, before the health crisis associated with the new coronavirus pandemic is known. Since then, the health-care staff have been doing exceptional crisis work for three months. We must all be behind our care teams, as our fellow citizens have been in a fair and admirable way. It is known that many hospitals are experiencing financial difficulties. This text is therefore even more important today. Work's not over. We'll have to go after him together. Our future work in the Health Committee will also be very important, in parallel with the consultation sought by our Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès, who started with care professionals at the government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this broad-based proposal does not come too soon. Today, the non-profit sector took action online. The demand that the trade unions and health care staff raise with this online non-profit day is clear. Put the heartwarming applause that has been given to the sector over the last few months in structural recognition of their invaluable value to all of us. That is what we are doing today with this proposal. The crisis has not only highlighted the enormous commitment of our healthcare staff. The great needs of the sector have also been painfully exposed once again. With this bill, we are taking an important step today. The bill on the Health Care Staff Fund is a starting point for CD&V and not an end point. I have already said this in committee and several colleagues have repeated it here today. CD&V is convinced that we need a career pact for care. In order to make working in care more attractive, we need to have more hands on the bed. That is what we are working on in this proposal, but we must also be able to find the people. For example, the nurse has been in the top ten of the VDAB's bottleneck professions for years. At the end of May there were no less than 1,338 vacancies for nurses. It is more than high time to make more people choose this job. That's the challenge. That is why a career pact is important. We are taking an important first step here. We need to make healthcare training more attractive and accessible, but we need to focus on the side-intromers, the people who want to work in care but do not have the time or money to start the training. There are a number of pilot projects running. We need to evaluate it. I hope that the social partners, through the Social Maribel, will also be very creative to make good use of the EUR 35 million we have earmarked for this purpose in innovative projects, but the people who want to work in a care profession should also be given the opportunity to do so. We need to be able to move on. We need to work on better working and wage conditions. It is a very nice profession, but it must also remain an attractive profession. That's a challenge. Think, for example, of the things that we can achieve with regard to the expansion of wrinkle days. Another important point is the care differentiation and task differentiation. This gives us the opportunity to recruit support staff, both administratively and paramedically, to take away the concerns that nurses have today, so that they cannot complete their tasks with clinical care. We really need to make better use of the talent and skills of our healthcare staff. A fourth point we need to work on is the review of hospital funding. Hospital funding now means that hospitals save on care staff, so that there is even more pressure on the people who have to work around the bed. With fewer and fewer people, because funding now works in such a way that it saves on staff. This is, of course, partly prevented by this Health Care Staff Fund. I am pleased that the rapporteur has referred to the need for social dialogue that is very important to us in this package and that we will have an evaluation after one year, so that we can look together to see if we have actually managed to get more people to bed and get more people to receive training. The proof of the pudding is in the eating People say it all the time. We will also have to be able to establish this before 31 March. I would like to thank everyone, and in particular the President, for their constructive cooperation. We've had good discussions. That was possible, and it was important that everyone could say their thoughts. In the end, we have reached a compromise text quite easily. I am particularly pleased with that. I hope that we will continue to work in this way in the future. There you will always find a partner in CD&V. Once again, I thank everyone for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u29	Mr President, today we are voting on the means for 2020 for the White Blouse Fund. For the first year, a budget of EUR 400 million will be able to sustain the creation of at least 4 000 jobs. The PTB, with its amendment introduced in October 2019, is proud to have been the basis of this additional financial manna. But this victory belongs in the first place to the white blouses, who led the struggle. White blouses are back on the street after the VOCID-19 crisis, but they have been mobilizing for years because of the problems in the sector. "I couldn't continue this work until I was 67," said a nurse I've met in the last few days. "The job we do is physically and mentally heavy. It is very difficult to combine with family life. Often, in the morning I will work with the ball in the belly, for fear of making mistakes, for fear of learning again that a colleague has cracked and that she is sick. I'm afraid to learn that a colleague is giving back her apron because she's tired of working that way." Not only is understaffing in hospitals difficult to live, it also puts patients at risk. In Belgium, an average nurse takes care of eighteen patients at night and eight in the day, while international standards provide for eight patients at night and four to five in the day. Every additional patient we give to a nurse increases mortality by 7%. Many nurses therefore give to not being able to perform their job properly. They have the impression that they are endangering the safety of the patients. Recently, a KCE report came out. This stated that one in three nurses faces a high risk of emotional exhaustion. Those are hugely high figures. After the corona crisis, this figure is much higher. The underbestaffining in the hospitals causes a high workload, a lot of stress and the feeling that the job they have chosen is not able to perform properly. That is precisely why so many people leave the profession. More hands on the bed is therefore a very important requirement to make the profession of nurse attractive again. The underbestaffining is both a cause and a consequence of the shortage of staff. We must break this vicious circle and we are taking an important first step in the right direction today. In my introduction I told you, this victory is a victory of the "white rage." I just wanted to come back to the battle they fought last year, even before the COOVID-19 crisis. On 7 May 2019, 10,000 people came to Brussels to ask for a reinvestment in healthcare. A month later, on 3 June, the staff of the public hospitals in Brussels stopped a day. The next day, on Tuesday, June 4, the movement went even higher and they started the famous Tuesdays of the white rage or les mardis des blouses blanches. In the absence of concrete responses, the Common Trade Union Front decided to proceed to a national strike and action day on 24 October 2019. On the same day, the amendment tabled by the PVDA in July was finally adopted. The only reason for this was effective street pressure. With the 400 million we release, this is a first step. I stress here that this was decided before the crisis of the coronavirus, because the pressure at work was already there and much more resources were already needed. It's important to say so. But today, caregivers are back on the street. This EUR 400 million is not enough. We need to improve employment and increase wage scales in the sector. I think the Coronavirus crisis has shown us how important it is to invest in health care, but also how damaging the savings made in recent years in health care have been. There's a lot of work on the board. Above all, I want to say to those who are mobilizing today: "This is just a beginning. Keep fighting!"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us has indeed come a long way. It has indeed started with an amendment by the PTB to the draft law on provisional appropriations for November and December 2019. On the text there were a lot of things that had been written down, passages had been deleted and adapted, in short, there was clearly no idea of the exact amount that they were going to give and finally they were knocked off at EUR 67 million for two months or EUR 402 million per year. The budget was reserved; only the authors of the amendment did not know what they would do with that money. As a reminder, the explanatory statement said that 20,000 nurses would be recruited by 1 November. This means a cost of 1,675 euros per month per nurse. If one were to find one, one would not even get far with the budget reserved. In the end, the text has worked out well thanks to all the parties who have gratefully used the resources, because let it be clear: no one denies the great need in the healthcare sector. Once the budget had been approved, we started working on it. I will not repeat everything that has been said about the content of the agreement here, because we are doing so enough, every week in committee. I would like to highlight one element, for which our group and colleagues in the MR have always argued very strongly, namely the need not to forget the need to put more hands on the bed of the self-employed home nurses in the light of the objective. Of the total budget, 48 million euros are reserved to increase the number of self-employed home nurses. How do we intend to do that? At the moment, our country has 20,000 qualified nurses who are no longer active in the healthcare sector or who have never even worked in it. With our proposal, we want to encourage these nurses to work as self-employed nurses, possibly in an auxiliary profession. In this way we create a new influx for the bottleneck profession. This target group will be given the opportunity to follow a training pathway to freshen up the competences and in the meantime receive a fee. Self-employed nurses accompanying candidates as mentors will also be reimbursed for this. The resources we invest in the training and mentoring of nurses will ensure that nurses who once opted for another job can return to the care sector at any time and that people in another job can be retrained as nurses. Only in this way can we effectively reduce the workload and make the profession more attractive. Finally, I would like to thank everyone and in particular Mr Goblet as chairman of the working group for their contribution to the present proposal, which is an important step forward, but not an end in itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin as a positive approach with a statement by a great man, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, better known as JF Kennedy: success has many fathers, but failure is an orphan. I would particularly like to remember the first part: success has many fathers. Colleagues, the bill may have many fathers. We see that on social media. But the mothers can come with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u32	This is a matter for the Christian Democrats: they want to rewrite history.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u33	It's a success, though. The bill we worked out is good. It's okay, colleagues, not for our ego, but for the care staff. That's what I'm here for. The qualities of the proposal have been described many times. I will not repeat them all, but I would like to get to the heart of the matter. It can certainly be said again and again that we have worked well together. However, I am so vain, with good reason, to take part in this I shall be very modest to take on paternity. Together with Cedric Norré and the chairman, we have made many proposals and brought you all to a moving understanding, which resulted in a good compromise, to which we have all contributed together, each with its qualities. Colleagues, after approving the 2019 funds for the Zordiensten Fund for the months of November and December, I was the first to suggest to Mrs De Block that the practical arrangements should be put in place for the Social Maribel Fund. We ended up with that, too. We are pleased that the social partners are working well on this. The applications from the hospitals for the Social Maribel Fund and the applications for the Fund for Home Nurses are in and more nurses are recruited. I'm also content-- that's a Kempian word-- that I've been able to do my part in the practical, pragmatic and good arrangement for the use of the funds for 2020. The concrete, practical and workable regulations we have worked out will make a difference in the field, for the institutions, the care staff, the hospitals and the home nurses. All this, as has rightly been stressed, will apply to both workers and the self-employed, as both occupational categories are needed in our wide healthcare sector. Colleagues, I cannot repeat enough that we have done so for them. Every year we will be able to spend 402 million euros on more hands on the bed and more care time for the patient. We create additional care time with additional recruitments and more support for nurses in hospitals and home care. There will also be more training opportunities, another important part of the agreement. Mentoring or tutoring, the terminology differs but we make it possible to train more nurses and that more people can influx. People with other professions will also be able to receive nursing training through the so-called side-influx. We also hope for more re-enterers, because Belgium has a lot more people with a nursing degree than working in the sector. Hopefully, with the additional resources, we can persuade some of them to re-enter the nurse's profession to assist the others. Through mentoring or tutoring and by carrying out a retention policy or limiting the flow, for example because of a burn-out due to the pressure of work, we aim for more hands on the bed. In the agreement we have also focused on a great deal of social dialogue between employers and employees and consultation with all actors and federations, which is reflected in the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the approval of many of my colleagues and also the progressive understanding of the government that it is only a first step. As the last week of action and the day of action of the staff show today, more is needed. Again, I am glad that almost everyone now agrees that applause alone is not enough, but that more is needed in the healthcare sector and that more is needed for our heroes of care, a term that many colleagues have used. Ladies and gentlemen, we must resolve the problems we have described. We do this partly through the Health Care Staff Fund, but we need to do more. Structural measures are also needed to improve working conditions, reduce workload, increase staff and correct wage and working conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard it this afternoon in response to a question from my group leader: a new multi-annual social agreement - every word is important - is needed. We must not merely express that belief in words. We must also turn them into deeds. The Minister and all of you will find an ally in us, the sp.a Group. We will support, with all the strength we have, any initiative for a new health pact or a new social agreement in the white rage sector. I have just heard the Minister say that 21 July is the deadline for her. We'll hold the minister to that. It will have to be more than just pushing forward in the time of the IFIC funds. A full social agreement will have to contain more. If Minister De Block, Minister Muylle and Minister Clarinval, she will involve the whole government, if I understand correctly, if I need support for that, then our group is ready to do so. Everyone is undoubtedly in agreement on this, too, the spirits are fortunately mature and investing in health care is important and necessary. Health is our highest good. This was clearly proven and recognised by everyone during the health crisis, which hopefully has been almost done. Let us work together for the investment in the broad health sector, ladies and gentlemen, positive and constructive, as we have done for the scheme for the 2020 funding from the Health Care Staff Fund and, hopefully, for the funds 2021 and later. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget one thing: we do this not for ourselves, but for the care staff who deserve it more than heartily. That is why we must do it, not for ourselves who stand here in the chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost everything has already been said, but I will still bring my personal touch. First of all, I would like to raise the issue of the 200,000 nurses with a visa, of whom only 140,000 are active in the health care sector. This shows the gap between those who wanted to start out out of passion and those who continue to work in the field and who have resisted the workload. I would like to stress that today too often we have the word VOCID in mind when we talk about health care. We have too much of the word VOCID in mind when we talk about nurses and caregivers. It was long before the onset of this crisis that their workload was greatly increased. It has been a long time since they spent at the bedside of patients, whether at the hospital, at home or in other institutions such as nursing homes or homes for people with disabilities, is becoming shorter because the length of hospitalisation has been reduced, because the patients are older and they have pathologies that require home care, but also because the standards of supervision are much lower than the European references in particular. The objectives of the White Blouse Fund were recalled. In my view, this is only a first step in the right direction. Indeed, given the gap and above all the reality on the ground, a plan of attractiveness for the whole profession and throughout the professional career is necessary, from the first stages, even if the latter depend on the Communities, in order to create a desire to engage in the profession of nurse. This attractive plan will need to be accompanied by a coaching standard that needs to be clearly modified to meet the international safety standard of one nurse for eight patients. It will be necessary to review wage conditions, recognize and value training and specializations, work on career ends, but also on the recognition of the tenability of the profession. Particular attention should also be paid to the realities of night work. Just walk around a hospital at night to measure the reality of night shifts. I would like to point out here that flying nurses are a major contribution to the various services. It is not only to please nurses and caregivers that this is done, it is not only in relation to their reality and workload, but also directly for patients. In fact, patient mortality is directly related to supervision standards. The major reference study in this area showed that each additional patient per nurse corresponds to a 7% increase in the risk of death for the patient. This figure shows that by increasing the standards of supervision and achieving the international safety standard, the quality of care is guaranteed, but also a better evolution and survival of patients. All services must be strengthened. When I talk about services, I should rather say the types of investments: the hospital, the home. Too often it is forgotten that in addition to the self-employed, nurses and salaried caregivers invest in home teams. I hope that on the part of the Regions, the governments will also set up a White Blouse Fund for Rest Homes. I do not want to link up with the VOCID-19, but I cannot help it when we see the reality of some nursing homes in the last three months, but also that of institutions for people with disabilities. If it's a step, it's important. I hope, above all, that for the other elements I have mentioned, these will not be merely announcements, intentions, postponed to later, to a hypothetical government. I hope that these are not announcements similar to those I read this morning in Sud Presse, even though we need to recognize the heavy jobs of nurses and caregivers as a difficult job, but also others. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can continue to work in the good cooperation that has taken place, as some have rightly pointed out. I also call for a shift in substance, a shift from investment in health to cooperation and the involvement of key stakeholders in agreements that will have to follow, again in the coming years and throughout the next government's legislature. Because, on the part of nurses and caregivers, there is a bitter taste for how the consultations have taken place in recent years. It's the past. We're not going to epilogue. But what interests me is that tomorrow there is a real turning point in consultation with caregivers in general, and nurses and caregivers in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my party is pleased that an agreement has finally been reached to give a legal basis to this White Blouse Fund, so much expected by these same white blouses, that they work in hospital or at home. We will therefore logically support this text with conviction. It was indeed essential to sustain this promise made to a profession that showed all its effectiveness, dedication and courage until the height of this crisis of the coronavirus. This Fund and its legal basis will finally make it possible to invest in the training of nurses and create jobs, thereby improving the extremely difficult working conditions faced by nurses due to stress, schedules, guards and a chronic shortage of staff. These conditions have been even more difficult, as is well known, in the context of the coronavirus crisis, so that health care personnel, including nurses, have rightly been perceived as heroes. Yes, these women and men have devoted themselves without counting to treating our patients, fear in the belly, without sufficient protective equipment and sometimes even at the risk of their lives. Today, these women and men are literally exhausted and they make it known. It's the black anger of white coats because it's been years, well before the Coronavirus attack, that nurses are asking for additional human resources. To be a nurse is of course a vocation, but it is not for that reason that one has to work in conditions that are such that, too often, one cracks, which are such as to pull on the rope, again and again, the body and head end up letting go. I have never stopped hearing it during my visits to nursing homes and hospitals, either before or during the crisis. "We don't need thanks or applause; we need recognition, we need arms." To do this, there is no secret: if you want to attract new nurses, you have to upgrade this profession. Beyond the investments that the White Blouse Fund will make possible, this text gives the signal – albeit late, but indispensable – that the political world is no longer deaf to the concerns of the sector and that the heroes of the crisis will not be forgotten as soon as it is behind us. However, we remain aware that this text does not fully respond to requests. I am thinking, for example, of an increase in existing funding through an increase in basic benefits and packages and a reform of the nomenclature. I am also thinking of a real cadastre of nurses who are still active, mentioning their place and sector of activity. So we can't stop there. We will have to continue our work by putting much more emphasis on listening, dialogue and consultation, which have, I must say, so far been so lacking – so much so that an appeal has just been brought against the Belgian State and the Minister of Public Health for negligence towards caregivers in the broad sense and, more particularly, towards practitioners of nursing. At the same time, and we talked about it earlier in the course of current issues, the healthcare staff continues to express their discontent through mobilizations in front of the hospitals. It is therefore time to put consultation and dialogue at the heart of our public health policy. And I am very pleased to see that there is a broad consensus on this point. This consultation will obviously have to take place with the social partners, but also with all the organisations representing the actors on the ground. It is essential for the well-being of white coats, but also of the patients they treat every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u36	Mr President, the result of this agreement is due to the work of our colleague. In one of our last discussions, I told him that if one day I had been told that I would conclude an agreement with Marc Goblet, I would not have believed it. It happens to be the case. I find that he has carried out the work very well, which would not have been the case of anyone, that he has been legit and has kept his commitments. I salute this way of working. This is probably one of the consequences of this agreement, where, in the end, instead of proposing two different proposals, we have only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u37	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u38	Mr President, I would like to correct something. The resources of the BFM and the institutions were discussed. I would like to inform colleagues that it is written in black and white that the resources of the BFM are being used effectively to deploy healthcare staff. It was said here that the institutions sometimes cut staff. That's not correct. We must also appreciate the efforts of the institutions today to recruit and retain sufficient care staff, because we are at 10.7%, of which 80% are funded by the State. The contribution of our healthcare institutions is therefore significant. I would also like to include a question that Mr Van Camp has put to the Minister. The Minister replied very clearly that the occupation is higher than the norm. I'd like to make that right. Maybe we should look into our own bosom. Very important is the evaluation that we have registered, namely that the funds spent should go to the FPS so that we can evaluate that more hands will come to bed. The same applies to the BFM. As for the PTB colleague, I told you in committee, but you have a very short memory. We discussed this at the beginning of this session. You forgot to mention the Vlaams Belang in your little story. I would still like to correct that. This was forgotten, but the collaboration between the PTB and the Vlaams Belang was still a fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u39	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u40	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1308/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1308/5) The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposition of a law that perpetuates the White Blouse Fund and affects its resources for the years 2019 and 2020". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal to consolidate the Health Care Staff Fund and to allocate the relevant funds for the years 2019 and 2020.' The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u41	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u42	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jan Bertels, Marc Goblet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u43	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. For the first reading, the rapporteur was Mr Anseuw. For the second reading, without a report, that is once again Mr Anseeeuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give a brief report. The proposal was presented in committee by Mr Bertels. The aim of the proposal is to provide a temporary supplement to primary incapacity benefits following the COVID-19 crisis and is part of a wider agreement concluded by the Group of Ten. It is also the result of a unanimous opinion of the Management Committee of the RIZIV Benefits Office. Mrs Lanjri, Mrs De Jonge, Mr Willaert, Mr Moscufo and Mr Galant, and Mr Bertels, Mr Goblet and Mr Spoorsen supported the Group of Ten's objective and the principle of the legislative proposal. There was no dissonant voice in that area. However, Mr Spooren expressed reservations about the scope of the legislative proposal. For Mr Spooren, it is logical that people who end up on temporary unemployment benefit should not be financially disadvantaged during the corona crisis because they happen to be ill. However, the scope of this legislative proposal is wider than temporary incapacity for work. It includes all persons who become unfit for work from 1 March 2020. There are few reasons why people who are unable to work simply because of their ability to work and who do not end up on temporary unemployment should benefit against other people who are unable to work, simply because of the fact that they happened to be ill after 1 March, according to Mr Spooren. Failure to grant the same benefit to persons who happened to have become ill on 29 February 2020 seems arbitrary and therefore contrary to the principle of equality. The caselaw takes account of the fact that different treatment between persons is based on an objective criterion and is reasonably justified in view of the purpose and effects of the provision adopted. Mr Spoorten tabled an amendment to limit the scope to the temporary unemployed. This amendment was rejected by 9 votes to 3 and 5 abstentions. Mrs Lanjri, Mrs De Jonge and Mr Galant, and Mr Bihet expressed the wish at first reading to leave the government with time to take a decision on power of attorney. At the end of the Rule-by-Rule discussion and the vote, Mr Bihet asked, pursuant to Rule 83 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, to proceed to a second reading of the Rules adopted. In a second reading, the legislative proposal was adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs by a vote of nominating vote, with 14 votes in favour and 3 abstentions from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u45	Mr President, the rapporteur has already explained a great deal, so I can be brief. However, I would like to take the floor because we are the only party that abstained in the vote on this proposal in committee. That is a bit of a pity, not only because I would have liked to have supported a legislative proposal by Mr Bertels, but also because we are largely in favour of the content of the legislative proposal. After all, we think it is logical, right and proper that people who have fallen into temporary unemployment because of the corona crisis should not be financially disadvantaged because they happen to be ill during that period. The scope of this legislative proposal, as indicated in the report, is much wider than temporary unemployment and actually covers all persons who become unfit for work from March 2020. For various reasons, we cannot accept this more extensive scope. Firstly, according to the interpretation of the N-VA, this is not a correct translation of the objective formulated by the Group of Ten or the way in which it implements it. I have already made it clear in committee that the Group of Ten did not put it in its text. I do not think that the translation into the legislative proposal is consistent with the objective. I quote: 'The Group of Ten is seeking equal treatment for all workers in temporary unemployment, regardless of whether they are disabled or not'. The text does not say that the Group of Ten wants equal treatment for temporary unemployed and disabled persons. The latter is something quite different. A second reason is that there is no link to corona, apart from the fact that one may become disabled during that period. People may be temporarily unemployed due to the corona crisis. However, the disability of a person who is not temporarily unemployed has no direct link to corona, unless that person becomes disabled because of corona, but the bill goes much wider than that limitation. In fact, this also creates discrimination between disabled people. Why would someone who became unfit on 27 or 28 February get less than someone who became disabled on 1 or 2 March? The final argument is budgetary in nature. There's a serious higher cost involved. It was calculated that the amount could reach EUR 85 million, much more than if that scope were to be limited. That is why we have tabled an amendment to limit that scope as we thought it should be. That amendment was not followed. So we will not vote against because we support most of this bill, but there are a number of reasons why we will abstain, all the more so because this is not the first time. We have seen in the Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions a number of corona-related proposals that are becoming structural very quickly or are being extended very quickly. That's what worries me. I do not mean this proposal in concrete terms, but we are calling into question some of the principles and methods of our social security. A number of things will also be very difficult to reduce, although this specific proposal is temporary. The N-VA fraction will therefore abstain with pain in the heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u46	Mr President, contrary to what has just been said, we believe that in this Committee on Social Affairs the opportunity has been given since 17 March to vote on proposals, drafts or motions for resolutions. Very important issues have come to the table as a result of this crisis. There were difficulties that needed to be addressed very quickly – for example, bridge law – and proposals like this one, which could very well have gone through the spectrum. It would have been possible to question whether this money would still be spent on a temporary supplement to the temporary allowance for primary disability. It is finally a niche where a whole range of people could have been discriminated against by the non-application of such a bill, which seems to us to be extremely supportive and realistic. The amounts and methods of calculating these allowances are aligned with those of temporary unemployment benefits and this seems to us to be a good idea. We welcomed from the beginning this initiative, which was taken in Kern and which led to Parliament. At the initiative of the sp.a. group, progress could be made in two ways, either by royal decree, which could be a continuation of this proposal, or not. In the latter case, we continued to move forward. A high-quality parliamentary work, taking time, has made it possible for us to reach this proposal, which we believe is necessary at this time of crisis. Of course, we will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 April 2020 the social partners concluded a balanced agreement within the Group of Ten with three components. One part of the agreement is to increase, during the Coronavirus crisis, sickness and disability benefits so that they correspond, like temporary unemployment, to 70% of lost earnings, with a minimum of EUR 57.25 per day. On 22 April 2020, the INAMI Management Committee approved a draft Special Authority Order. Mutuals also called for the implementation of this measure. Ladies and gentlemen, two months later, I still do not understand why this aspect of the agreement has not been implemented. However, this is a social measure, which makes it possible to better compensate workers who become ill and who, I would remind you, already lose a large part of their remuneration. Respect for workers and social consultation is important. That is why, together with my colleague from Sp.a., Mr Jan Bertels, we have tabled this bill which implements this aspect of the agreement. I am pleased that in committee there has been a large majority to adopt this text, which will make it easier to compensate sick workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u48	According to my list of speakers, Mrs Lanjri is next, but I do not see her. May I continue? Mrs Moscufo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u49	Mr President, this measure could have been taken by a royal decree and I believe that the choice of authors to rely on the parliamentary debate was the right one. This has not been implemented. Secondly, it was clear to us that we should support this bill as part of our overall program and vision of the problem of sickness benefits, which are, for us, in any case too low. This was already the case before the VOCID-19 crisis, and it is still so now. As my colleague said, it was an opportunity to solve this problem, especially since some are unable to work because of the VOCID-19. For these reasons, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u50	Mr President, you should be proud of us, because as a law student I have learned that it is one of Parliament's tasks to exercise control over the executive, the government. That's what we did here. If the government forgets or fails something, it is good that Parliament picks it up and does what it has to do. As some Members have said, this proposal regulates a gap left by the federal government. It was part of a unanimous agreement of the Group of Ten. This part of that unanimous agreement, too, deserves to be implemented, just like the other two parts. Mr Spooren, you know that the social partners think this is the correct implementation of this unanimous agreement. The VBO has written this literally in an opinion on an earlier text that was too restrictive. The core of the legislative proposal is therefore rightly the same level of protection for temporary unemployed and workers who become ill during the corona period, calculated in a similar way: 70% of the gross wage ceiling and a supplement of EUR 5.63 per day in certain cases. The minimum benefit for primary incapacity is also important. Mr Spoorten, I hope this will be structural, but that will not happen with this bill. We need to work on that. That's a gap in our social security system. There is now no minimum benefit for the first six months of illness. In the other systems, it is. It is now being realized temporarily and hopefully in the future, but we will still have to work on that. What's most important to us, and that's also why we did it, who gets sick in the corona period must have the same protection as who becomes unemployed in the corona period or by corona. I am pleased that we have found a very broad majority and that even no one is opposed to implementing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that it was first and foremost the work of the social partners that made it possible to draw up the content of this agreement. As far as I am concerned, and for the majority of the members here, but perhaps not for all, it seems to me that this expertise must be recognised. I trust the expertise of the social partners, who, in my view, have paid particular attention to ensuring that this is fair and that it is possible to correct unfair and problematic situations. They weighed the pros and cons. The best proof of this is that their decision was taken unanimously. We will support this text, hoping that the social partners, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, will be able to conclude new agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u52	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u53	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1274/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1274/6) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u54	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u55	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Karin Jiroflée, Jan Bertels, Meryame Kitir, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u56	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u57	Mr President, in view of the late hour, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u58	It was a good intervention, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group is obviously pleased to see this text coming to plenary session - a text that we have co-signed with the colleagues of the Sp.a. Indeed, the goal is unique and essential: to protect patients who are affected by VOCID-19 as much as possible from the health costs that could be charged to them when hospitalized. These are not only fee supplements, but also non-refundable health insurance costs, such as medical or paramedical fees, hygiene products and various other costs. We are well aware that the law already provides guarantees for patients in intensive care and for those whose hospitalization in a single room is necessary for medical reasons or, simply, when the hospital is unable to respond to the patient's request to be accommodated in a common room. Some would argue that the text merely confirms an existing framework. I will tell them that he has this merit of bringing full clarity to the patients who are victims of the pandemic by ensuring that they will not have to pay any supplements during their stay in hospital. Moreover, the exchanges in committee have clearly demonstrated this: the situation may not be as clear as it seems. With regard to non-reimbursable benefits, there too, measures had to be taken. According to the Christian Mutualities, patients would indeed have paid costs of this type for an amount of 218 million euros in 2018 - a obviously huge amount. Protecting patients from invoicing these supplements and associated costs therefore seemed indispensable. In the same vein, we look forward to seeing soon our text, also adopted in the Committee on Public Health, which aims to protect the victims of the pandemic from the possible costs of urgent medical transport - including protective equipment and subject to appropriate procedures, thus entailing higher costs. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for my group, it is clear that these costs and costs, which - from this pandemic onwards - cannot be charged to patients, will in no way have to lead the finances of our hospital institutions further. The situation of these institutions is extremely difficult. We keep saying that in committee. It was already fragile before the crisis and it has only deteriorated in recent months. Hospitals were forced on 14 March to implement exceptional means to cope with the pandemic, with serious additional costs related to specific benefits due to the VOCID-19, as well as to the protection and disinfection equipment that had to be used. They were also forced to postpone all their non-emergency activities: outpatient consultations, medical examinations, but also many non-essential operations. Today, while non-emergency activity has been able to resume, it is still not at the same pace as before the crisis because of the protection and hygiene measures that are essential but need to be put in place. According to the press, figures for the hospital sector amounted to a loss of between €5 billion and €7 billion for all hospitals. Impossible for our group that hospitals bear the extra costs today. On the contrary, more than ever, we must support them so that the crisis we are experiencing does not have a dramatic impact on their financial situation and that it can ensure the sustainability of accessible, innovative and of course the same quality hospital care for all patients. To date, we have identified more than 60,000 confirmed cases in our territory. Of these, more than 17,000 people were hospitalized, sometimes for long weeks. Today, if the virus is still circulating, but in a less virulent way, it is still present and people are and will be affected and possibly hospitalized tomorrow. It is therefore necessary to guarantee to each of these people that, beyond the illness that affects them, financial difficulties do not come to them even harder, both they and their families. Far from the idea of creating any kind of distinction between patients affected by one or the other disease. But, in exceptional circumstances, the answer is quite exceptional. Of course, there is no doubt that a more comprehensive reflection on the accessibility of our health care for all will have to continue. This is what we will be working on in the coming weeks with new texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u60	Mr President, the N-VA Group will support this proposal, obviously in view of the particular situation we are in. We're in the corona crisis. Thank God we're getting out. However, it is very special that the patients affected by the disease stay in the hospital for a very long time. There will indeed be critical voices saying that it has already been incorporated into the law that in patients for intensive care and patients with infectious disease no fee supplements should be charged. That's right, of course. However, those COVID patients go from intensive care to another department to rehab. He/she will easily remain in the intensive care department for two to three weeks and then a few weeks in another recovery department. Our concern is that there could be gaps in the law and that there could be a shift to, for example, non-refundable performance. That is something we absolutely do not want. The current COVID-19 crisis has struck us incredibly, both socially and healthly and economically. The last thing we want is for a patient who has been hospitalized for weeks to worry about the invoice he will receive when he leaves the hospital. That is why we support the legislative proposal, even if it is well aligned. This means that we will be very clearly targeted here to help those patients who need it and that we will not end up in a kind of competitive position with other patients who also have a long-term illness and who also have a lot of costs and concerns. However, it is up to us, politicians, to ensure that patients can recover at ease. That is what this is all about. Anyone who comes home after COVID-19 is cured, but has not recovered. He or she is still waiting for a very long rehabilitation with speech therapy and with the strengthening of resistance. We would not want our patients to have to worry a great deal about the invoice that could still fall on the bus. We are grateful to colleagues for their proposal, and we will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since COOVID-19 infection is often associated with serious respiratory infections and a hospital stay, the patient's invoice can be seriously charged. That is why we want to support this proposal so that the patient's invoice does not exceed what is really necessary. It therefore seems logical to us that, first of all, the pay supplements for COVID-19 patients should be abolished. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of this proposal, the Flemish interest is also in favour of a thorough review of the entire hospital funding after the crisis and of an efficient reform with the sector, which will benefit both hospitals and patients. The issue of the Supplements to Honor should certainly be on the agenda. We'd like to open up the bill a little bit. Instead of just referring to COVID-19, we also want to consider other recognized pandemics. We've been facing a lot of epidemics and pandemics in recent decades. Scientists assume that this will be the case in the future, quite the contrary. That is why it seems appropriate not only to apply this amendment to COOVID-19, but to interpret it more broadly so as not to have to supplement or amend this law at all. That is why we are retabled here the amendment we tabled in committee. We hope it will be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, CD&V will not support this proposal. We will abstain, as we did in committee. When it comes to making health care even more accessible, a reform of hospital funding, the nomenclature reform, the day-care price and the pay supplements, you will find a partner in CD&V. However, we do not think that this proposal is really appropriate. There are also elements in it that will lead to confusion. We also find it a regrettable signal to the hospitals that have made a huge effort. They too made every effort during the corona crisis to care for COOVID-19 patients. It is a sad signal: hospitals do not charge room supplements to COVID-19 patients. The current text of Article 97 (2) of the Hospital Act provides sufficient guarantees that COVID-19 patients cannot be charged room supplements. According to the advice of the legal service of the RIZIV, requested on the initiative of Minister De Block, it is quite clear that the current text provides sufficient guarantees that COOVID-19 patients cannot be charged room supplements. So I wonder what we are doing here: writing a law to say what is in the law is a little superfluous and activity therapy. I think we could have conducted and clarified the debate better, should we have also asked for an opinion from the National Intermutualist College and from the Federal Council for Hospital Services, but our question for an opinion was voted off. I still don't understand that and I'm still sorry. We understand the demand for the imposition of all the BFM's non-covered additional costs, but we think that we should have this debate in the context of the increased allowance or the maximum invoice. That is a better way of helping patients who are in financial difficulties with unpaid costs and a way to help all patients, not just COVID-19 patients. We are left with the concerns expressed by the RIZIV......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In short, CD&V remains with a lot of substantive questions. How are we going to identify the patients? The RIZIV made the same suggestion because, first of all, there is no clear definition of what should be understood by a patient suspected of being infected with COVID. Secondly, it is not clear what this means for a patient with COVID who is hospitalized because of another condition. If, for example, a person who has COVID but has no serious symptoms falls down the stairs and has to be hospitalized for fractures, should all his unpaid costs be taken into account? Additional opinions could have clarified all this better. Let me be clear, CD&V really wants to have the debate on pay supplements and accessible care, but for all patients, not just for COVID patients. As far as room supplements are concerned, this proposal seems superfluous to us and the rest is still very unclear. We will therefore abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u63	Mr President, I will be gallant and let Mrs Merckx go first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u64	When the patient receives his hospital bill, there are three components that he is responsible for: the moderator's ticket, the additional fees and the unreimbursed benefits. As is known, more than 17,000 patients have been hospitalized for VOCID-19 and these are long-term hospitalizations. Some items refer to possible invoices between 1,500 and 2,000 euros. With the proposed legislation, we ensure tariff security for the patient, i.e., it will be prohibited to claim fee supplements and unreimbursed benefits. For us, it is interesting to have this discussion about the additional fees because we have to finish, outside the context of the VOCID-19, with this aberrant system that allows a doctor to charge two to three times the price of the service for exactly the same service. It is also an unfair system that is no longer under control because Belgians already pay 1.7 billion annually in private insurance premiums. Nevertheless, it continues to climb. It is therefore clear that we support this proposal. We regret, however, whether it is this proposal or the next one that we will be talking about in a week, that the patient still keeps the moderator ticket charged. Four in ten patients do not have hospital insurance. There is a real fear that people will be in debt because of these bills, especially those patients who do not have hospital insurance, and that this could undermine hospital finances. We have introduced an amendment to the proposal. I would also like to explain the amendment. With our amendment we want to ensure that hospitalisation insurers intervene in the costs of the patients insured with them before those costs are borne by social security. The second opinion of the Federal Council of Hospital Services, which we received with concrete proposals for hospital compensation, also notes that hospitalisation insurers are undoubtedly spending much less at present due to the decline in hospital activity. We think it is important that they also take their share.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis. We all know that it is essential not to add financial difficulties to health problems. No one here can imagine that special attention should not be paid to people who have suffered and who suffer from the new coronavirus. It is for this reason that several measures have been taken to ensure that patients do not have to pay extra fees in the hospital. A patient who comes to the emergency room due to coronavirus is taken care of as a common room. He will therefore only pay the moderator ticket, regardless of the hospital in which he is admitted. If the patient is required to occupy a single room because of his or her medical condition, no fee may be charged. Coronavirus patients are already hospitalized in a single room at the beginning of their illness. Medical isolation is already legally a cause of prohibition of supplementation. In intensive care, the prohibition of supplementation exists throughout the stay. Therefore, it is only once the seven days of contagion have passed that patients who are not in intensive care can be placed in a room of two or alone and a choice will be made by the patient. We see this as discrimination between patients with coronavirus and patients with another disease who will not benefit from the measure. We're gonna end up with a patient who doesn't pay and another who pays. Don't pay and pay what? What types of fees? This is not indicated in the proposal. In addition, hospitals are doing extraordinary work in compliance with the prohibitions and measures taken by the Government. Mutualities do not seem to refer to any abusive billings by hospitals. Adopting this proposal is, in a way, creating two-tier social security by discriminating between patients. Colleagues, in our view, this bill lacks clarity and differentiates between certain patients. That is why the Reform Movement will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u66	Mr President, this is the third time today that I, along with other colleagues, have been allowed to defend a legislative proposal from myself. Thank you for the support of most colleagues for this bill. That bill is necessary. We had the discussion in committee. This is necessary and I am convinced that it will help patients. The Corona virus has made one thing very clear: accessible, qualitative and affordable healthcare is invaluable to our society. I'm sure none of us want American states, where a COVID-19 patient receives a $1 million hospital bill. Fortunately, we have a strong social security system in our country, a social security system which has proved its worth and which we must continue to strengthen. None of us want a hospitalisation in Belgium due to a COOVID-19 infection or a suspected COOVID-19 infection to cause too high a hospital bill because of supplements or other costs, the non-refundable performance charged to a patient, because they fall outside our protection system. I'm assuming no one wants too high invoices. Colleagues, that is important, because more than 17,000 patients have been hospitalized for the sake of COVID-19 and I am not talking about those who have unfortunately died. Seventeen thousand people were already allowed to leave the hospital, fortunately, but they owe it to all the efforts of the care staff that we have rightly talked about a few times today and that we should rightly thank for that. It's not over yet, colleagues. We are in the tail of the epidemic, but new patients are being hospitalized every day. We must also provide them with the necessary protection, because these hospitalizations sometimes lasted for a very long, very long, eight weeks and more, from different departments which necessarily had to be visited by those patients. Now, ladies and gentlemen, that is the approach. Fortunately, most of you agree. Patients shouldn't have to worry about the hospital bill. A strong government takes care of them. The draft law which we hope to adopt will not leave any ambiguity on this issue. No discussion in the field between doctors and hospital boards or between doctors. Don't argue. For even the advice we have received allowed ambiguity to exist. I use the word used by Mrs Van Hoof herself. It was A and B at the same time in the opinions. So for us it is clear, let there be no discussion about it: no pay supplements for corona patients, point. No additional costs for corona patients, period. That's obvious. That leaves no margin for interpretation. That is what a caring government must do for its inhabitants: to create clarity, even there. And yes, of course we need to talk about hospital funding. As far as we're concerned, there's gonna be a strengthening of hospital funding. We have even put forward proposals for it. So I'd like to start that debate. Of course, we must talk about the Supplements of Honor, including in the context of hospital funding. We have tabled a proposal on this. Let us discuss this, ladies and gentlemen. I'd love to, but now, with your support, I hope, let us first clarify the hospital bill for the COVID patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this bill. We will abstain because the text responds to a problem that does not arise for patients with VOCID-19. Today, the rules on this matter are very clear. But, obviously, some of you consider that hospitals do not respect them. It is felt that you are specifically targeting the situation of patients hospitalized due to VOCID, as if hospitals were taking advantage of VOCID to use on their backs. However, the regulation of such a situation is fully clarified. I will go even further by saying that your text makes things more blurry. The INAMI note was particularly enlightening on the subject and I hope that all of us here can trust the expertise of INAMI. I hear you talking about $1 million in bills in the United States for patients with VOCID-19. That's right. But I can tell you that in the United States, there are bills worth a million dollars for patients with anything else. This does not date from today with VOCID-19. On the other hand, in Belgium, the vast majority of patients with a severe or chronic disease find themselves with much heavier bills. All this to tell you that there is still progress to be made in this area. I will avoid talking specifically about this or that disease because, basically, everyone can have health problems. Of course, VOCID-19 is a severe disease that has affected a large number of patients, with nearly 10,000 deaths. But we must not lose sight of thousands of other patients who have played as much solidarity as possible with patients suffering from VOCID-19, since a number of them have put their disease in brackets or, in any case, a little aside so that hospitals can devote themselves as much as possible to patients suffering from VOCID-19. As far as we are concerned, we need to be able to clearly change the issue of hospital supplements, not only for patients with VOCID-19, but for patients in general, as part of a review of hospital funding - I have said and repeated several times. Because the hospital situation was not simple and today it has become extremely complicated. It is not recoverable advances as they have been put in place that will resolve the situation, since a sword of Damocles remains above hospitals, and therefore both on caregivers and on patients. In this respect, at the level of the working groups currently under way to determine how the BMF will be established for the year 2020, I hope that these working groups will not be lost in the face of red tape. The ideal would be to rely on the 2019 BMF. But whether it is for patients who have been ill or who will be ill in the future, or for all other patients, it is only through proper and sufficient funding of hospitals that care can be optimal in terms of quality, in terms of the supervision of caregivers, first and foremost for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u68	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u69	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1129/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1129/7) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposed law amending the coordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities in order to protect victims of the pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus against invoicing of fee supplements and to protect the patient for whom the cost of services is covered by the budget of the financial means against invoicing of additional costs". The title was changed by the Commission to "draft amending the co-ordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities to protect the victims of the pandemic caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 against the charge of pay supplements and to protect the patient for whom the cost of the service is covered by the budget of financial resources at the charge of additional costs." The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u70	• 7 – Sofie Merckx (1129/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u71	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u72	Subject: Amendments and amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Articles 2 and 3 .
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u73	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 4
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted, and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u75	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Melissa Depraetere, Khalil Aouasti.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our reporter is Mr D'Haese who has informed me that he refers to his written report. The first speaker on my list is Mr Aouasti.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long because the sitting has already lasted long enough. This text is important because, as a first step, it was intended to extend the moratorium on salary seizures which had been decided and which expired yesterday, 17 June. We had to find another compromise than the extension of this moratorium on salary seizures. We have therefore reached this compromise which, despite everything, is an important step, since it will allow all those who have difficulties, who are in precarious conditions, who may have lost their jobs, to retain higher incomes than they could today, by amending article 1409 of the Judicial Code. They are very numerous today in Belgium. We are talking about more than a million people who are temporarily unemployed. I am told that the number of food packages would have increased by more than 50% during this crisis. With this measure, we increase elusive revenues by 20%. We thus allow all these people, who had to see 100 per cent of their salary seized from 1 475 euros, to keep income up to 1 770 euros. I think we can look forward to contributing, at least temporarily, until 31 August, to the protection of these low and middle incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 8 June this year, we have taken a new course in deconfinity. It is a gradual return to normal life for a large number of individuals and for a large number of companies. Almost all sectors are starting to work again. For our group, the consequence of this return to normal life is the end of the moratoriums on seizures for both individuals and businesses. These are measures that had full legitimacy during confinement, but the automatic nature of which is applicable to all, therefore whether or not one is in difficulty, no longer makes sense because preventing the enforcement of court decisions, even on a temporary basis, is tantamount to maintaining the asphyxiation of creditors. However, a creditor, and this is particularly true in the business world, is always the debtor of another creditor if not the same. He participates in a flow that must resume his course. The professionals who are daily struggling with these situations say so, and in this sense, for Judge Paul Dayer, maintaining the moratorium on companies would have been a hindrance to economic recovery. The bill we are voting today increases the elusive quotas by 20 per cent. That is to say, we have not stopped any financial or economic support. This measure will be applicable until 31 August, which will allow everyone to have an income to ensure a decent life in these always difficult times, while preserving the essential balance between creditors and debtors. It seems to us to be a good compromise. However, we are well aware that many individuals, many businesses are still and will continue to be affected by the consequences of the pandemic. The government is working hard to help them in a targeted way: - extension of temporary unemployment for force majeure corona; - extension of the bridge right in favour of the self-employed; - extension of the parental leave of corona; - extension of the terms of payment facilities and exemptions from social security contributions announced today by our Minister for the Middle Classes, Self-Employed and SMEs, Denis Ducrame; - extension of the freeze on the degressivity of unemployment benefits; - subsidizes CPAS in the context of food aid; - €250 premium for beneficiaries of RIS, GRAPA and income replacement allowances for disabled persons. After this enumeration, I would say that Parliament is not left behind because the Committee on the Economy is currently considering a bill tabled by my group to ease the procedure for judicial reorganization in order to make it more accessible and effective for businesses and self-employed affected by the crisis. This is neither the time nor the place to discuss this bill, but it must be stressed that different elements of it would undoubtedly help our companies: for example, the fact that these companies could be heard without all the documents having to be filed as a condition for initiating a procedure or the possibility for the president of the company's court to grant terms and time limits commensurate with the needs of the self-employed or the company in difficulty on the basis of a repayment plan he has drawn up. These measures will be necessary for companies to benefit from. The MR has no doubt that they will be supported by a large majority of this Parliament, like the measures voted on today for individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the measures taken by the government to protect those who are in debt from the start of the COOVID crisis have not missed their goal. I am referring to Royal Decree No. 15, which protected those undertakings which were on cessation of payments as from 18 March, thereby protecting them from bankruptcy or seizure. For individuals, we have done the same with the Act of 20 May 2020. In this way, we have given people breathing space in uncertain times. Today we are picking up the road. We are starting up the economic engine again and hope that those who were already working before the corona crisis can get back to work and that people who have not yet started work will also have opportunities in the labour market and gain an income. In this respect, it is appropriate to give the measures a temporary character and also a more targeted implementation. Those who can pay will no longer need special protection, but those who still have difficulties will still receive temporary protection. That is what we are doing with the amendment to raise the income thresholds by 20%, to limit the herd or to make it impossible. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for the CD&V amendment, which allowed this legislative proposal to be implemented more effectively. What we now have is a proper balance sheet in the context of the relaunch of our economy, while at the same time providing temporary protection for the most vulnerable. We therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 March last year the number of temporary unemployed workers exceeded the threshold of one million, i.e. as many households which saw their financial receipts melt down significantly, with a loss of income of 30%. While living with full pay was already not easy for many workers before the crisis, surviving with pay reduced to 70% of salary is simply impossible for many of them. I am thinking particularly of the 43 per cent of women in part-time positions. There are also quarantines as part of the tracing, with a further loss of income. There is a risk that its various advantages, such as the annual premium or the year-end premium, may be affected in part by temporary unemployment. And there is obviously the risk of redundancies and massive corporate bankruptcies in the coming weeks and months. On the other hand, while workers' earnings are falling considerably, their expenditure is increasing in many ways. Indeed, a survey by Het Laatste Nieuws published a few weeks ago revealed that for 1,500 products, price increases exceeded 10%. A survey conducted by Test-Achats in March shows that almost one in two families had already lost 568 euros since the beginning of the crisis; a figure which unfortunately needs to be revised significantly today. The latest survey is about over 1,500 euros. As a result, multiple income and purchasing power attacks are cascading with this crisis. However, this loss of purchasing power does not date back to yesterday. The enormous impact of the crisis is not the result of chance. It highlights a situation that was already very worrying before the VOCID-19. I am therefore pleased that a consensus has been reached in the Committee on Justice in order to increase the thresholds for non-entry by 20% until the end of August. Together with my political group, we had already supported the provisional moratorium on seizures for individuals, established by the law of 29 May in the context of the fight against VOCID-19. We have once again supported this measure, which is an extension of the previous one. This is necessary. During this period, every euro counts. However, it is only temporary. I hope that, at the beginning of the year, we will be able to have in-depth consultations with associations, CPAS, social partners, professionals from various sectors and the field and administrations in order to adopt other more substantial measures in the long term in the field of justice. Note that this Tuesday in the Justice Committee, we voted at first reading to increase the thresholds for access to second-line legal aid. One in four people had been excluded from legal aid in the previous legislature. We held this debate in consultation with civil society, including the Justice for All Platform, and with colleagues from the PS and Ecolo. This measure is consistent with the above since it allows families not to see their purchasing power diminished when they want to protect their rights. It is also an essential measure and a request that has not been made since yesterday. She's going in the right direction. That is why I hope that this increase, which is not temporary, will be adopted by the various political groups, for the same reasons that we are adopting today this social measure to protect individuals from seizures. I therefore invite you to think of all the workers. It is for them that we must act. We must protect and value them. In this regard, we welcome and support the constructive legislative initiatives that have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u81	Mr President, the legislative proposal before us today is actually the follow-up to a proposal that we voted on here a month ago. At that time, a temporary ban on execution was introduced, and on our proposal also a temporary ban on pay. That was a good thing, but unfortunately the work was not finished. Two things could then be determined. Firstly, it took more than two weeks for that law to be published in the Belgian Official Journal. The result is that for many people the payroll has simply continued to go through. For example, there is still a massive loss of pay on holiday allowances. It was like an opportunity to create a little bit of breathing space for vulnerable families. That didn't work. Secondly, the transfer of wages, whereby banks represent part of the wages, was not covered by the original proposal. For a family, the impact of payroll and pay transfers is, of course, exactly the same. Part of the wage must be paid at a time when it is difficult enough. This proposal continues to address this issue. The herd limits will be increased by 20% until the end of August. This also means an actual ban on seizures for the lowest incomes. There will be more financial breathing space, and especially for those families who are faced with lower incomes or who have been made redundant, who fall back on technical unemployment and so on, it will be an improvement. If they get to a point where, for example, they can't pay off their loan, the bank can't just withhold part of their pay for it anymore. For those families that are already having a particularly difficult time in these times, we ensure that they can keep their heads above water. I would like to stress that the previous measure was in place until yesterday. A quick publication in the Belgian Official Journal is therefore particularly important. The end date is also very important. This law runs until August 31, which is important at this time. Afterwards, people who have debts, who are confronted with seizures or who need to be protected by other procedures. It is very important that we take this opportunity to do something about it. In any case, the sp.a Group will put forward the necessary proposals. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation and their willingness to pay attention to this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on the subject, as it is late. In addition, colleagues have well explained our interesting and many discussions. I particularly wanted to thank the CD&V for its constructive amendment, which allowed us to reach agreement. Everyone put their own. I would like to express our group's satisfaction with the outcome of this dossier. While the one-month extension of the moratorium on seizures and even bankruptcies could be acceptable, it is true that we have doubts as to the balance of these measures, as it is true that some creditors – TME, small owners, traders – have also found themselves in great financial difficulty during this period when many activities have been stopped. On the other hand, many voices have also stood up not to further delay the recovery of the economy by measures that would have insecure the entrepreneurial sector. It was therefore not a question of promoting the continuation of non-payments, but rather of helping those who are temporarily in great financial distress. The increase in the threshold of non-entry – as provided for in article 1409 of the Judicial Code – for a temporary period running until August 31st, seemed to us a good solution, because it protects a little more people for whom this period of confinement has proved catastrophic. This solution suits us, because it is balanced. And, therefore, we will support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u84	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1296/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1296/6) The title has been amended by the Commission as "a proposal for a law to temporarily increase the non-enabled thresholds referred to in article 1409 of the Judicial Code". The title was changed by the Committee to "proposal for a temporary increase in the seizure thresholds referred to in Article 1409 of the Civil Code." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u86	Voters [[140]] Stemmen White or invalid 20 Blank or invalid Valid [[120]] Geldig Two-thirds majority 80 Two-thirds majority Mme Monica De Coninck a obtenu 120 voix. Mrs Monica De Coninck received 120 votes. Monica De Coninck, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is declared a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former Members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate". Ms Monica De Coninck, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u87	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u88	Mrs Fonck, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1323/1 on compensation for damage caused by occupational diseases in favour of voluntary paramedics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ambulance workers are at increased risk of contamination of VOCID-19. At the end of April, a royal order was issued for paramedics and volunteer firefighters to be treated as firefighters and professional paramedics in the area of insurance against occupational diseases. However, the scheme did not include voluntary paramedics working in the context of health-care transport. The aim of this text is to correct the scheme to cover these voluntary ambulance workers like their colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u90	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u91	Mrs Moscufo, you are asking for urgency in connection with the motion for a resolution No 1331/1 to cancel the purchase of F-35 combat aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u92	Mr President, the title already says a lot about this motion for a resolution. We discussed the budget for health care just now and we believe that investing EUR 12 billion in this period for these F-35s deserves a debate as to whether the contract should not be cancelled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u93	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u94	Mr Van Quickenborne, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1347/1 amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens as regards intra-corporate transferees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u95	Mr President, this concerns the transposition of Directive 2014/66 of 15 May 2014. Last year the European Commission decided to bring an action for failure to act before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Commission wants our country to be condemned to pay periodic penalty payments. This legislative proposal contains the legislative provisions necessary for the transposition of this directive in order to prevent us from being effectively convicted. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u96	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u97	Mrs Moscufo, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1350/1 to maintain income for quarantined workers in the context of the VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u98	Mr President, this proposal concerns a whole category of workers who lose their earnings. We think it's really worth helping quarantined people to prevent some of them from continuing to work by being ill to keep their wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u99	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u100	Mr De Roover, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1352/1 on temporary and structural debt relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u101	I will try with appropriate eloquence to get your all to support the urgency of Mr D'Haese's and Mrs Depraetere's bill on temporary and structural debt relief. Since today, the debtmoratoria set up during the lockdown for individuals and businesses have expired and bailiffs can again work freely and indefinitely for the recovery of money debts. In the Committee on Justice, the day before yesterday, in anticipation, an urgent legislative proposal was unanimously adopted that would temporarily increase the unpaid portion of the salary in Article 1409 of the Civil Code by 20% until 31 August. That bill was added to the agenda under item 9 and perhaps it will receive widespread support in the near future. Today, a lot of press reports have been published about a recent study by the National Bank, on which questions have been asked, which shows that many small self-employed people, people in technical unemployment and tenants, among other things, are in the water for loss of income during the corona crisis. Bill No. 1352, for which I am asking on behalf of my group, and perhaps others, for urgency, is to provide additional breathing space after 31 August for companies and natural persons who find it temporary or structuralally difficult because of the corona crisis and in particular for the start-up of economic life, including by providing a one-month one-off delay, as well as targeted assistance for more structural debt relief for those who need it. We hope that there will be support for this in committee, and we urge you to support our request for urgency in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u102	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u103	Eloquence is rewarded. Mr De Roover, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 1355/1 on the future of the airport in Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u104	Mr President, it is clear that the airport sector is experiencing an enormous crisis because of the pandemic. There may be thousands of jobs on the road at Brussels Airlines. Due to the lockdown measures, Brussels Airlines would lose EUR 1 million per day. Last week the baggage dealer Swissport filed for bankruptcy, which also means that quite a few jobs are lost. Yesterday, the federal government concluded an agreement with Aviapartner. In short, Zaventem airport and all the companies operating there are experiencing an unprecedented crisis. The importance of Zaventem airport with 66,000 direct and indirect jobs, the second economic engine of this country after the port of Antwerp, cannot be underestimated. We therefore call for the urgent need to discuss this resolution on the future of Zaventem airport so that we can ensure that all people and companies associated with the airport feel supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u105	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u106	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1357/1 amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to the compulsory registration of foreign notarial documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u107	Mr President, regional authorities are abolishing donation rights abroad on notarial past gifts of movable property, as they do, to date, for immovable property. However, a judgment of the Council of State annulled that administrative practice in the donation of movable property. We want to try to provide an answer to this by means of appropriate legislation, in order to close the cheese route.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u108	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u109	Mrs Moscufo, you are asking for the urgency of proposal No 1358/1 to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the management of the coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u110	Mr President, no one hopes to have a second wave of VOCID-19, but in anticipation of that, we believe that it is important and urgent to be able to take stock of everything that has happened and learn from it to improve the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u111	Mr President, there is an urgent need for a debate on the establishment of a committee to examine the causes and effects of the crisis. At the same time, we must be able to move towards another form of approach, in particular a special commission. It is likely that an initiative will be taken quickly. I also ask that this proposal be taken into account quickly, if necessary, if it is to be urgent. This special commission could turn into something else later if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u112	Mr President, my group has also indicated that it is a asking party to get to work in Parliament at the right time and to see what can be learned from this crisis and the management of the crisis. We have already spoken out in favour of a parliamentary committee of inquiry as the most interesting option. A number of colleagues know that my group has prepared a text and is trying to gather other groups around it. That is why we can accept the urgency of this text. At the same time, I hope that the search for a common formula can continue in the short term. I hear from other colleagues that they are also planning initiatives, so I hope that we will soon be able to get together to come up with a formula. I would like to clarify my voting behaviour in this area and make it clear again what my group considers to be Plan A.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u113	But in the meantime, you are voting in favour of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u114	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the Flemish Interest has already put forward a proposal for such a committee of inquiry a long time ago. I now notice that the PVDA also shoots out of its boots and suddenly asks for urgency. We will, of course, support the urgency, but we expect all proposals to be combined. We therefore support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u115	Mr President, we may or may not be able to approve the urgency now, but there is a growing consensus, which means that from September 2020, when the corona situation will hopefully be over, we will be able to wait and see if that is the case. We will not approve the urgency, because it is quite irrelevant in the light of the consensus that is growing here. However, I assume that we will have the necessary mutual contact over the next few days. However, the urgency seems unnecessary to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u116	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u117	I have heard several explanations of vote suggesting that there is a desire for Parliament to take action at some point. Whether that should immediately be a parliamentary committee of inquiry, some leave it in the middle. Is there anything else you need to do? Perhaps so, but you can take the Conference of Presidents for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u118	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 10 June 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 10 June 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 13/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Friart. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 13/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Friart. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that at the moment there are many sectors that feel abandoned. Because they have no voice to express their concerns to Parliament, they are in danger of being effectively forgotten. On behalf of Flemish Interest I was often the champion of event companies, foorkramers, taxi companies, fitness centers, the travel sector and many others. We have had extensive debates in this Chamber, quite rightly, on the hospitality sector, which absolutely needs action, but we must avoid helping only the hardest callers. General measures have been taken which apply to everyone, and I am the last to propose a coffin of measures here. However, one sector has already suffered more than the other under the lockdown which is being phased out and which will leave traces of destruction in many sectors for some time to come. Write down what I am telling you again today: many entrepreneurs and employees will see black snow in the coming months and years, because the worst is yet to come. I was not only the first to warn of a recession in Parliament in February, I was also the first to raise the alarm for the catering industry. Unfortunately, the facts have always proved me right. We ask Parliament to consult with these forgotten sectors too and to listen to their grievances. In this way, very targeted measures can be taken, without being allowed to lapse in sintering-class politics or inefficient use of resources. Minister Ducarme did not quite understand what I meant by forgotten sectors because he kept talking about the general measures. That's just as striking, colleagues. That just means that the government does not have the right feeling to detect the difficulties and to deal with them. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support our motion and to think of them as well. These other sectors, too, deserve attention and survival, and their employees deserve to have a job even after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u120	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u121	Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u122	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 10 June 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 10 June 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 11/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 11/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks and months a number of temporary measures have been taken in this House to guide companies through the crisis. As you know, I have long been in favour of strengthening the solvency of our companies, which would not only provide a firmer foundation for the companies in question, but also a strong cash flow position and greater acceptance of new loans by banks, not to mention the credit insurers that put our companies in difficulty due to lower credit limits, which makes the purchase of stocks, among other things, very difficult. We do not think it is a bad thing that, among other things, carry-back systems are being developed and taxes postponed, but there are also opportunities that the State Treasury does not have to cost a lot of money. Today, more than 280 billion euros are parked on savings accounts in Belgium, a capital that can be perfectly mobilized towards companies. I do not agree with Minister De Croo that defensive savings products should not be converted into investments because the saver would not have the knowledge of investment risk. In our proposal, we support this argument by establishing tax-friendly private investment funds managed by our banks and in which savers can participate on the basis of their risk profile that is required to be reduced. Banks have a lot of experience with private funds that can strengthen equity and specifically use it for coronatic companies. After all, we should not only provide loans to companies, which only increase the level of debt or introduce measures that cost the State Treasury a great deal of money. Let us voluntarily mobilise that savings towards Corona Equity Funds to save our SMEs, our jobs and our economy. The Flemish government gave a first impetus to direct private money towards SMEs, but their possibilities are too limited because the need for more fiscal powers at Flemish level has still not been met. With this motion of recommendation, we are again calling on this Parliament to save our businesses and our jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u124	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u125	Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[27]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u126	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 10 June 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 10 June 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 17/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Vermeersch; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 17/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Vermeersch; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u127	In the study we calculated that Flanders is already the largest net contributor to the European Union today. The European Restoration Fund of EUR 750 billion is a major step in this direction. The fund is divided into EUR 250 billion in loans and EUR 500 billion in grants, especially to countries such as Spain and Italy. Of course, we fully understand Italy or Spain in view of the scale of the corona crisis in the two countries, but it is not the responsibility of the Flemish taxpayer to take on the long-standing public debt of those two countries. Let us not forget that this country too was particularly affected by the virus. Belgium is one of the countries with the highest number of reported coronadods in relation to population and with the highest excess mortality. The proposed non-refundable grants are either cash grants or transfers to southern Europe. However, we have nothing to give away. Our sovereign debt is completely derailed by the corona crisis. All the tax money available must now be used to rebuild our own economy, our own labour market and our purchasing power. Six out of ten families suffer financial losses during the corona crisis. A quarter of a million employees and self-employed people are at risk of losing their jobs and there is also a huge wave of bankruptcies. We fear that the Prime Minister will join another European plan that makes Flanders one of the largest net contributors, this time of the corona restoration. For the first time, common debts are incurred and European taxes are also envisaged. First, debts are made, and then we look at how this can be financed. That's not exactly a good policy, if you ask us. We therefore fit for European taxes. They will become an attack on Flemish assets. Fiscality is and remains for us a competence of, for and by the Member States. Flanders is not only the largest net contributor of the European Union, but Flemings will also be able to pay through European taxes the bill of pivotal European institutions and southern European budget wells, which need to be muffled. The Flemish Interest does not want half-hearted European compromises at the expense of the Flemings. We therefore ask in our motion for a resolution that the government opposes the proposed European Commission Restoration Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u128	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u129	Yes [[113]] Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 142 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1186/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1186/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1258/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1258/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u132	Vote on Amendment No 15 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete the request 3. (196/7) Vote on Amendment No 15 from Tomas Roggeman cs to withdraw request 3. (196/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 53 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 92 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (196/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (196/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u134	Vote on Amendment No 17 by Dieter Vanbesien cs to Article 20. (1309/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Dieter Vanbesien cs on Article 20. (1309/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 63 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marco Van Hees to Article 20. (1309/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marco Van Hees on Article 20. (1309/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 141 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1309/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1309/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1308/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1308/6) (Mr Nabil Boukili voted as his group)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1274/7) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1274/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u138	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Steven Creyelman cs to Article 2.( 1129/8) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Steven Creyelman cs on article 2. (1129/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 128 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 to Article 3 by Sofie Merckx. (1129/8) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Sofie Merckx on Article 3. (1129/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[12]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 53 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u140	Mr President, we have questions about the usefulness of the legislative proposal before us. All measures taken in the framework of the powers of attorney already prohibit pay supplements. If there are any abuses, then the bill will not change that. Moreover, it is disproportionate to legislate on the basis of abuses that have not yet been proven. The criterion of suspected infection with COVID-19 is also extremely vague and may give rise to discrimination. Why should a patient with pneumonia be subject to a different regime than a patient with suspected COOVID-19 infection, purely because of that suspicion? That is why my group will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u141	Is anyone still asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Is anyone else asking for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 104 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1129/9) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1129/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 144 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1296/7) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1296/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip046x.u143	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting was closed on Friday 19 June 2020. Next meeting Thursday 25 June 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting adjourned on Friday, 19 June 2020. Next meeting Thursday, June 25, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
