ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services has recently published a monitoring survey on cross-border cooperation between Belgium, on the one hand, and France, on the other, for police areas in the provinces of Hainaut and West Flanders. The survey refers to a series of recommendations, which call for measures to address the daily problems faced by cross-border police officers and members of the Police and Customs Cooperation Centre, under the acronym CCPD. These measures relate in particular to the question of training and the investigation stresses the need for the establishment of specific mandatory training for any Belgian officer arriving in the border area. Since the types of specific offences found near the border, the Belgian and French judicial and organisational arrangements and the provisions of the Tournai agreement strongly determining the nature of the work of the border police officer, it seems that enhanced training, adapted to these particularities, is indeed necessary and useful. Madam Minister, are initiatives to strengthen the focus on the specificities of police work in border areas, whether with Germany, with the Benelux countries and, in particular, with France, envisaged within the framework of training? In addition, a training project is being carried out within the border crime basin II. This basin ranges from the district of Ypres to the Tournaisis. Can support from the federal police in these trainings be considered? In advance, Madam Minister, I thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u2	Mr President, Mr Senesael, in accordance with the Benelux Treaty and other agreements - Tournai II signed with our neighbouring countries for example - the integrated police have developed training modules on cross-border issues. Basic training for all managers now includes a component on cross-border cooperation: prosecution, observation, joint patrols, exchange of information. In order to keep up-to-date the skills of staff in border police areas or areas affected by cross-border criminal phenomena, police schools approved by the National Police Academy offer ongoing training entitled "Border Crossing", "Border Crossing Police Intervention" and "Crossing the border without worry". As for the initiatives that could still be taken in this area, the training needs encountered by local police areas are analysed and met in collaboration with the relevant accredited police school, and the federal police can of course be asked for support. Yes, federal police support may be considered as part of this training project. This may be conceptual support in terms of expertise or logistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u3	Minister, thank you for your satisfactory response. I'll only have two remarks to make. First of all, I would like to recall the general policy note you presented last week, in which you state that a study will be launched on the financing of schools in order to improve the effectiveness of basic training, in consultation with the trade union partners. We will pay particular attention to this. Secondly, schools are there to improve the training provided there, and I hope that you will be particularly attentive to developing the cross-border aspect that is very close to our heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Friday, October 2, 2020, the police services of the Condroz-Famenne zone carried out an operation to control heavy goods vehicles on national roads 4 and 97. During this operation, 27 trucks were examined and 14 of them – more than half – were in violation. These offences mainly concerned compliance with overloads, technical conditions, the validity of technical checks, the possession and use of appropriate driving licences and the use of tachographs. The offences were divided into eight minor offences, five major offences and one critical offence. These figures, coupled with those obtained from police operations carried out elsewhere in Belgium, underline the presence of this criminal phenomenon in our country. While it is estimated that 6% of road accidents involve heavy goods vehicles, almost 25% of accidents involving heavy goods vehicles are fatal. Certain offences commonly found present considerable risks to road safety. Minister, could we hear your reaction to this problem? Can you inform us of the number of heavy goods vehicle control operations carried out by the police in recent months, as well as of the number and nature of violations found? Do you observe a concentration of offences in certain areas? Are heavy goods vehicle control operations envisaged in border regions, particularly with France?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u5	Mr President, Mr Senesael, traffic controls for heavy goods vehicles are an important point in our fight against road insecurity. The police services, both federal and local, devote all necessary attention to this. However, this type of control requires the use of specialized personnel. Unfortunately, not all police services have the capacity to do so. To address this problem, various networks of experts have been set up. The members of these networks regularly carry out control actions targeted at their particular field of competence, such as the transport of dangerous goods, tachograph fraud on journey times and rest periods, the securing of loads, exceptional transport and technical checks on the road. These actions are of course added to all local initiatives, such as that carried out by the Condroz-Famenne police zone on 2 October. These actions revealed some 19,014 infringements in 2019. In 2020, the various networks have already carried out 16 coordinated actions, with the participation of local and federal police specialists. These actions were carried out throughout the territory, but due to the measures against the VOCID-19 epidemic, large-scale actions had to be temporarily suspended. Finally, we are not aware of any specific local initiatives along the French border.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I draw your attention to the peculiarity of the French zone. I specifically took the figures of the Condroz-Famenne police zone that are not those of my area. For your information, I am president of the police zone of the Val de l'Escaut which is contiguous to the French border. My excellent colleague, Éric Thiébaut, is experiencing the same phenomenon since he is also president of a cross-border area. You know that Belgium is a country of passage which is heavily frequented by heavy goods vehicles. There may therefore be a need to carry out specific operations with regard to the passage of foreign trucks, particularly French trucks. Madam Minister, I will allow myself to come back shortly with some proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u7	Minister, Statbel recently published figures on the number of accidents and casualties observed in Belgium in 2019. While these figures describe a decrease in accidents in Flanders (-2.7%) and Wallonia (-1.9%) compared to 2018, they also show an increase in the number of fatalities within 30 days of the accident in one (+1.6%) and the other (+13.9%) region. The Flemish and Walloon provinces with the largest number of deaths within 30 days of the accident were East Flanders (11% of deaths), Antwerp (12%), Liège (12%) and Hainaut (18%). Although the figures for the number of accidents in Hainaut show a decrease. Minister, can we have your feedback on the figures? The decrease in the number of accidents in our territory in 2019 is a positive element that should be stressed. However, efforts still need to be made. In 2017 – a year less deadly than 2019 – Belgium, according to the Association of European Motor Vehicle Manufacturers, ranked 16th in the rankings of the European Union countries accounting for the least number of deaths on the roads, ahead of all neighbouring countries. Minister, are initiatives to reduce the number of people killed on Belgian roads – and in particular on boring roads – envisaged? The strengthening of controls seems to be an effective initiative in the fight against road mortality. Is federal police support envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u8	Mr Senesael, although 2019 saw a decrease in the number of accidents on Belgian roads, figures for the number of road fatalities actually increased in Wallonia (+13.9%) and Flanders (+1.6%). In addition, 646 people lost their lives on Belgian roads in 2019. Despite a 24% reduction in the number of deaths since 2010, the result achieved for 2019 is still far from the European target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2020, which is a maximum of 420 killed in 2020. With 56 deaths per million inhabitants in 2019, Belgium is above the European average: 51 deaths per million inhabitants. And the margin of progress remains important. The measures to be implemented by the police to combat the major causes of road mortality and thus contribute to a reduction in the number of deaths on Belgian roads are of several types. First of all, we're going to use new technologies like ANPR and we're going to deploy police applications in the field. Then, there will be increased automation of the processing process and optimization of police resources, including directing police capacity to the times and areas considered problematic. We will also continue to cooperate with partners active in road safety at different levels. These measures will continue to address the main causes of road mortality more effectively, while increasing the risk of road users being monitored. The strengthening of controls is seen as an effective initiative. The above-mentioned measures will support this strengthening, in particular by freeing up police capacity to redirect this capacity towards phenomena of road insecurity which cannot be the subject of automated findings, such as driving under the influence of alcohol. The strengthening of roadside controls will also involve the recruitment of police capacity for the benefit of the Federal Highway Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the quality of her response and, above all, for her determination to implement these various measures. I have seen, moreover, since the introduction of this question, that the minister has spoken in the press and has indicated her willingness to control one in three drivers. In addition, it will make logistical and financial resources available to achieve this objective. I can therefore only thank her for the information she has given us and tell her that we will of course remain vigilant and attentive to the development of this situation. We will come back soon to see the implementation of the measures it has promised to put in place and for which we thank it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, a number of local prosecutors have drawn up a permanent note for the attention of the police in order to generalize the sampling of narcotics and the destruction of surplus by the latter. A mission so far carried out by the scientific laboratory of the Federal Police, which involves specific equipment, training of staff, procedures... in a word, important charges for local areas, whose weight is already known in the finances of the local authorities. Minister, this situation requires many questions. Why are prosecutors turning away from the scientific laboratory of the Federal Police regarding the carrying out of these missions? Have you been consulted in this context? If this decision is related to the relocation of the laboratory as part of the federal police establishment in Vottem, is this a transitional measure before returning this mission to the federal police science laboratory? If so, what term? Would this then justify the importance of the investments to be made by the local areas? If not, what impact would this decision have on the laboratory? What are the horizons for this important structure? What are the transfers of appropriations then planned to the areas to cover these investments and the associated operating costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u11	Dear colleague Thiébaut, at the request of the judicial authority, federal police investigators or police areas, technical and scientific police laboratories carry out samples representative of large quantities of seized narcotics with a view to carrying out orientation tests and for possible analysis by a specialized laboratory. The remaining volume is returned to the federal police investigators or to the police areas in which the application is made, and deposited at the Registry. However, this work is not specific to the technical and scientific police laboratory. The National Institute of Forensics and Criminology is a more competent partner than police laboratories in this field. Other units equipped and trained to carry out this kind of work may also be requested. As with seizure, the destruction of narcotics deposited in the registry or temporarily stored with the police is a measure ordered and/or confirmed by the judicial authority. Destruction is the prerogative of local districts, prosecutors' offices or judicial authorities. Currently, it is mainly executed by the police. The destruction of narcotics is not the responsibility of technical and scientific police laboratories. The current practices concerning narcotics have not undergone any significant change in the working process at the district level of Liège-Huy-Verviers. In this connection, the Technical and Scientific Police Service of the Federal Judicial Police of Liège has never been responsible for carrying out the sampling and destruction missions. Seizure and destruction of the surplus is the responsibility of the recording services. So there's no connection to moving to another building. The operating procedures remain the same as before. As a result, no credit transfer is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u12	Minister, thank you for your clarification
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, last September, a stabbing attack at the Ath station highlighted the obvious difficulties surrounding the intervention of the Railway Police in SNCB's infrastructure. To sum up the facts, one person was the victim of a stabbing attack at Ath station. According to the protocol, the SNCB officers notified the internal service, which reportedly communicated the information to the information and communication centre. He would then have alerted the Railway Police, which had only two officers unavailable for intervention at that time. It was only after three quarters of an hour that the local police were approached, while its location is very close to the station. In five minutes, the effective intervention of the local police allowed the incident to be managed. In the meantime, only lost time for the victim and in managing this incident! Minister, what, on average, is the time for the Railway Police to intervene in incidents within the railway station perimeter? Does having two officers available to cover an entire judicial district reflect the general availability of the Railway Police? How can this situation be improved? How is the availability of railway police officers managed and what procedures are provided for local police in case of unavailability? Does not the current procedures provide for local police to be notified at the same time as the Railway Police, in particular in order to secure a site in the event of such an incident? Why has this not been the case in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u14	Minister, last September, three people, including two SNCB staff members, were violently assaulted at the Ath station after nightfall. This aggression of unprecedented violence has highlighted the difficulties, or even shortcomings, around the ability of the Railway Police to intervene within their own infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is the local police who are primarily responsible for the interventions at the stations and their immediate environment. There are only ten stations for which the Ministerial Circular of 15 April 2002 provides for subsidiary intervention by the Federal Railway Police in support of the local police. These are the stations of Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp, Louvain, Bruxelles-Nord, Bruxelles-Midi, Mons, Charleroi, Namur and Liège. This support is set out in memoranda of understanding. There is no national instrument to monitor the turnaround times of the Railway Police. As an indication, it can be estimated, on the basis of the ISLP database, that the average time of these interventions in one of the ten stations mentioned is 12 minutes 48 seconds for 2019, 2020 being too specific due to the crisis related to VOCID-19. The incident you are referring to took place in a station that is not included in the above list. The administrative analysis of this event reveals that the information and communication centre was informed of the facts at 9:47 p.m. A local police team was dispatched at 2226 hours and arrived on site two minutes later. At the same time, the information centre contacted the Railway Police but, in the absence of a team available, the entire mission was entrusted to the local police team already on site. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the protocol in force for communications between SNCB's dispatching and the police services, the Safety Protocol of 1 January 2016, clearly states that staff of Infrabel or railway companies can make direct use of 112 or 101. On the other hand, the Safety Protocol also stipulates that, as soon as this dispatch is informed of an event requiring the presence of a police service or other rescue service, it is under an obligation to inform the services concerned via the territorially competent emergency centre. The Railway Police is not aware of any internal directive that contradicts this protocol. Finally, reducing the operation of the Railway Police to the presence of two officers at one location and at one time is not representative of reality. The staff, including 38 inspectors and 8 principal inspectors for the region concerned, are divided into three shifts, integrated and non-integrated actions and the fight against specific phenomena. However, this distribution is constantly changing according to the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u16	Minister, thank you for that clarification. However, I am very concerned about your answers. You say that there are ten stations in the country where there is a permanent presence of the Railway Police and therefore a police station of the Railway Police. You mention the station of Mons in particular. I've already asked you about rumors about the disappearance of the Railway Police at the site of the Mons station and I can only worry. In this case, at Ath station, there was a wait of 45 minutes before the Railway Police arrived, precisely because there is no permanent presence in this station which is a smaller station in terms of the number of passengers. I can therefore expect serious problems if, as I have heard, the police station of the Mons Railway Police is moved to Charleroi. We will therefore be in the same situation, in which we will have to wait much longer than during the incident at the Mons station, which, however, has experienced figures of insecurity concerns which are quite important according to the statistics I have read concerning the whole country. This only reinforces my concern about the potential disappearance of the Railway Police at the site of the Mons railway station.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u17	Minister, thank you for your clarification. However, I share the same concerns as my colleague about the location of the central police station, but also about the delays in the intervention of the Railway Police. I hope that in the near future you will be able to draw your attention to this problem which is specific to this region and to these few stations concerned, which are said to be smaller, so as to guarantee permanent safety and to ensure that the interventions take place within efficient and optimal deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u18	Question No 55010449C by Mr Hervé Rigot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u19	Minister, the protection of our people requires our police services to have a presence in the physical field, but also - if I may say so - in the digital field. You have recently indicated your willingness to strengthen our police devices on social networks and, more generally, on the Internet, in the face of the threat, particularly in the context of the fight against radicalism. It is also clear that the work of the Center for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) and the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) is not limited to such actions. In recent years, police services have been active in the digital field and have demonstrated effective control. It is only in 2014 that our country set up a National Cyber Security Centre, an excellent achievement of the previous government. Unfortunately, the issue of human and technical means remains important in terms of the level of threat. For this reason, our services need specialized profiles. We were able to discuss this during your policy briefing. As such, the 2018 annual federal police crime report recorded an increase of 15,469 annual computer facts since 2008. A year ago, Mr. De Bruycker, director of the CWB, reported that between October and November 2019, some 5,000 suspicious emails had been reported to him daily. As a result, more than 100 fraudulent websites had to be closed every day. This phenomenon, of course, continues to develop. It is therefore essential to raise public awareness so that these risks are better known by all actors in society. To this end, the Government plans an annual cyber security month awareness campaign in October. Since the filing of my question, the figures for 2020 have been reported by the CWB, which has already received 5,387 reports of computer attacks or other online incidents during the year. This number is higher than in 2019, namely 4,484. Minister, where is our country now on the Global Cybersecurity Index? How have the services within the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre and the FCCU evolved since 2014? What legal mechanisms enable these services to resort to coercion, such as the closure of individual sites and accounts on social networks and on the Internet, against those who commit hate and radicalized threats and statements? What are the processes of information exchange and coordination of actions between federal structures and the RCCUs? What are the first impacts observed following the launch of the 2020 awareness campaign? Finally, considering Europol's 2018-2021 priority plan to combat cybercrime, what Belgian collaborative initiatives are already taken at this level to close the current plan and to prioritize the actions of the next plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u20	Dear colleague Pivin, in the last Global Cybersecurity Index in 2018, Belgium was in thirtieth place. The number of staff employed by the CCUs of the Federal Police was 178 in 2014; 211 in 2015; 234 in 2016; 237 in 2017; 228 in 2018; 239 in 2019. With regard to the evolution of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, we do not have the encrypted material. The CWB is under the authority of the Prime Minister. In terms of behaviour against illegal content, there are two approaches: blocking or misappropriation and referencing. For the blocking and diversion of sites or contexts, this mission is carried out on the basis of a request from the judiciary and drafted on the basis of article 39 bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. This is therefore a legal action to which suppliers, hosting companies and providers are bound. As far as content is concerned, it is generally found on social media platforms located abroad. Upon receipt of a request, the legal services of these platforms shall verify whether the fact can actually be identified at 100% by a Belgian interest. If this condition is not met, the platform shall refuse enforcement because of the applicant authority's lack of competence. In terms of referencing, when illegal content is discovered, it is reported to the platforms and the removal of content is requested. This is a measure which is not coercive for platforms but, if in the course of its tasks the Federal Police discovers a Belgian interest, it will contact the territorially competent police service. Like all other police services, the CCUs normally use the general national database to capture their investigations and the entities involved. In this way, the links and collusions between the different surveys can be identified and coordinated. With regard to aspects of prevention, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium is particularly competent. Awareness campaigns are therefore being developed and launched by the CWB. As such, it is best placed to answer this question. The Federal Computer Crime Unit is involved in Europol's European projects on cybercrime priority. In particular with regard to the development of dark web training, the Belgian police are making a major contribution as a pilot of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u21	Minister, thank you for the fairly comprehensive answers you have given me. I wanted to add one more element. I read a few weeks ago that the International Energy Agency called for measures to be taken in the matter referred to, but more specifically in the case of electricity installations in Belgium. The Agency called for measures for electricity producers and suppliers in terms of certification and partnership between the public authorities and the electricity industry. I do not know if your department has already taken any initiatives in this area, depending on the appeal of the International Agency. If this is not the case, I would urge you to do so, particularly in partnership with your colleagues in charge of this competence. I want to talk about federal energy, and about the Regions for suppliers and other equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u22	According to the agenda, we now need a question from Mr Vandenput. Mr Vandenput informed me that he could not join us until later and asked to be able to put all his questions at the end of the sitting. We'll see if that's still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u23	Mr President, Minister, on Sunday 1 November two girls from Limburg were attacked in Brussels. During that skirmish one of them called the emergency power station, where at that time Dutch was not powerful. The girls were only interrogated in French and there were several things that didn't go as it should. Eventually, the attackers filed a complaint against one of the girls and were taken from her fingerprints. The girls didn't feel heard by the police, couldn't fully do their story and therefore lost their confidence in the law enforcement. The two girls are now going to take further steps, because they believe that many similar situations are being covered up. They will go to the P Committee to charge these police officers because they have not treated them fairly. The police of the Brussels-South zone are aware that mistakes have been made during the interview of the girls. The language problem is not new either. In the meantime, the chief of police stated that the police area will ensure that the investigation is conducted correctly and that the girls can do their story in a decent way and in Dutch. Can it be that emergency calls within the Brussels area are unable to be heard in Dutch? Is this the result of an understaff of the service? How is it that in a police zone like Brussels, no policeman could apparently take an interrogation in Dutch? What guarantees can be given that in future there will always be the possibility of being heard in both national languages by the police in the Brussels area? The police threaten people with a night in prison if they wish to file a complaint, this seems to me to be the reverse world. Why wasn't there a report of the interrogation? Are you going to have this examined? This is really unacceptable. What are you going to do to prevent such practices in the future? Do you also believe that such police officers have a stain on the image of all the policemen who do their best every day and try to do their job correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u24	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, concern and attention for victims is at the heart of the policy statement. The victims in our national languages can help is an essential part of this concern and attention. Both the teams of the zonal dispatching and the intervention teams are staffed by people who speak Dutch. However, there is a lack of staff of the Dutch language role or with this competence, both in the Zuid zone and in the other Brussels police zones. The need for more Dutch-speaking policemen is clear, but the number of candidates is unfortunately limited. A staff member who is unable to understand and/or speak Dutch shall be deemed to have recourse to a colleague who is powerful in the language. Therefore, any member of the integrated police - operational or Calog, statutory or contractual - may benefit from a bilingual allowance for the knowledge of the second language, if he or she fulfils the following cumulative conditions: he or she must hold a position which opens up the right to this allowance and he or she must hold a Selor language licence in accordance with what is required for the function. The Brussels zone also encourages its staff to take language training courses. These courses are currently also offered online. Once police officers have been appointed in a Brussels area, they can take free language lessons during duty hours. Language programs are also provided during the course: 6 hours for French or Dutch and 6 hours for English. As far as the facts are concerned, I can tell you that the Chief Constable has immediately ordered an internal interview with regard to the attitude of the intercessive police officers, with a view to identifying and addressing possible dysfunctions. I agree with you that this does not improve the reputation of the police. The internal control department of the Brussels-Zuid police area collects all information from the police officers involved and all information that may be used in a disciplinary investigation. If necessary, sanctions or measures will be taken against the staff concerned. The facts that have been established will therefore be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u25	Madam Minister, it is certainly a good thing that action will be taken on this issue. The focus should be on the victims, because in this case they almost feel like perpetrators. That certainly can't be the intention. The lack of Dutch-speaking policemen in the Zuid zone is clear. It is therefore a good thing that language training can be followed, but we must also work to ensure that people who are going to follow it effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u26	Madam Minister, many organisations do important socio-cultural work with vulnerable target groups. These include people in poverty and older people's associations with older people who end up in solitude. This is all covered by culture, as socio-cultural work is recognised in the wider field of culture. As a result, these organisations can no longer continue at the time of that work in general. However, the ministerial decision on corona is not fully clear with regard to one-on-one activities with vulnerable target groups, such as front door calls and one-on-one coaching. This is not explicitly included in the Ministerial Decree, nor in the FAQs on info-coronavirus.be and this raises an insurance problem for many organisations. In the Ministerial Decision, the Joint Committee 329, which includes both the care sector, the welfare sector and the socio-cultural sector, is granted an exception to continue to act, but is limited to care, well-being, including aid workers and youth welfare workers, food distribution; the monument watch and non-commercial radio and television. In practice, this seems to ensure that welfare organisations can continue to do that kind of work, but not socio-cultural organisations, while both are important. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following question to clarify the ministerial decision. Can welfare-oriented socio-cultural activities still take place in one-to-one form and subject to compliance with all possible security measures in the light of the Ministerial Decision? If so, can this be explicitly included in the information on the website? I see now that I submitted the question some time ago and have no longer verified whether the FAQs have been modified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u27	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, Article 8 (4) of the Ministerial Decree of 28 October, the so-called corona-MB, as recently amended on 28 November, provides that services which cannot be guaranteed a distance of one-and-a-half metres between the service provider and the consumer, as well as domestic services, are prohibited, except services provided by commercial, private and public companies and services necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the nation and the needs of the people referred to in the Annex to the Ministerial Decree. Companies and associations in the socio-cultural sector may therefore continue their activities subject to compliance with the directives referred to in Article 5 of the Ministerial Decision and with the protocol, which may be applicable, i.e. to distance themselves, to wear a mask, to wash their hands, in short, to take all necessary precautions. The Joint Committee 329 for the socio-cultural sector was also included in the Annex to the Ministerial Decision for a limited number of services to private individuals, in particular care, well-being, including aid workers and youth welfare workers, food distribution, monuments watch and non-commercial radio and television. However, those restrictions relate only to the nature of the activities and not to the type of organisation. For example, socio-cultural organisations as well as welfare organisations may provide care and welfare services at home if they are part of the Joint Committee 329. If necessary, we can also take a look at this in the light of the FAQ.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u28	Madam Minister, I think that is an important answer, because there was uncertainty in the sector. It is a very important sector, as you yourself said. It is indeed more important to look at which services are offered, rather than who exactly does. The answer to my question will give some clarity, but it might be advisable to supplement the FAQ in that sense, so that it is clear to everyone and there is no discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u29	Mr Houtmeyers, perhaps it would be a good idea if I could explain how the rules will be established during the discussion in the OCC, where all the governments of the country are represented. The attendees decide what measures are needed to reduce the number of infections and keep the pressure on our health care manageable. In order to implement the OCC, all the measures decided on will then be included in the Ministerial Decision. That ministerial decision shall then be published after approval. To clarify the MB, a list of FAQs can be found on the previously mentioned website. The questions and answers in these FAQs are a clarification of the measures taken by the OCC and included in the MB. However, the current health crisis and the figures we are experiencing today require us to interpret the rules strictly. As you know, the corona measures are agreed in the presence of, among other things, Flemish Prime Minister Jambon. The relevant ministerial decision also gave effect to the decisions of the Consultation Committee. The ministerial decision contains decisions that relate to the whole of socio-economic life. That there are questions is, in my opinion, specific to a regulatory standard with a general character which applies to very many, if not all, different situations. Its application or interpretation will be finalized under the supervision of a judge, in certain cases the Council of State or otherwise a police court. The Council of State has confirmed that it should not immediately be concluded that there is an unjustified arbitrariness when there is some confusion at the entry into force of the standard. This confusion can also be caused by individual disappointment because the disappointed sometimes find their way to the media and then different answers are formulated. That disappointment is then quickly translated into the word confusion. As established by the Council of State, there is in any case no arbitrariness with regard to the Ministerial Decision. Your question concerns the shops and shops which may or may not be open and the products they may or may not offer. I therefore confine my further explanation to that domain. As you know, a new MB of corona measures has entered into force since 1 December, which has changed the non-essential sector regime. The Ministry concerned decided that B2B was still possible while B2C had restrictions with regard to shops and essential goods. All restrictions were such that the risk of virus transmission was reduced. For the provision of goods, the MB provided in the first place that all shops could operate via delivery or via a collection system of pre-ordered goods. In addition, an exhaustive number of shops were allowed to remain open. In the first place, these were food shops, but also night shops, care and hygiene shops, animal food shops, newspaper shops, gas stations, telecom shops, DIY shops, garden centers and flower and plant shops. That list was established within the discretion of the executive, as also confirmed by the Council of State. For example, newspaper shops are considered essential because of their distribution of the written press and the importance of the freedom of the press. It is therefore not a question of exact mathematics, but a case-by-case assessment, with a certain discretion. In any case, it should not be about the whole store, but could also be about a part of the shop. For example, a multi-shop with a clothing, furniture and food department was only allowed to open the food department in so far as it sold essentially essential goods. I come to the essential goods themselves. The shops or parts of them which may be open were indeed only allowed to offer essential goods. That rule had been introduced to create a more harmonised playing field and not to create a breach of equality, as previously argued by a number of players, when certain shops were allowed to sell all products and some were not. For what the essential goods are, I refer to the majority of the ministerial decision. This was included as the classical main offer of the establishments concerned, i.e. a common denominator of what is usually found in those shops. There too, the level playing field was a driving force. As regards the provision of services, Article 8 (3) of the Ministerial Decree was applicable at that time. Only the commercial and private and public companies listed in the Annex to the Ministerial Decision were thus allowed to physically continue their services to consumers. The Annex therefore contains the commercial, business and services necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the nation and the needs of the population. The virological considerations also played a role in drawing up this list, followed by an ad hoc approach and assessment of the activities. For example, taxi services were mentioned because they are considered important for the mobility of citizens. Since my arrival, I have tried to do everything possible to draw up a legally correct and relevant ministerial decision, despite the great pressure of time that is often present in the tightening or taking of new measures, but regulating our entire society and all activities and interactions is not an easy exercise. The Council of State has confirmed that there is, and must be, a certain margin of discretion in drawing it up. If anyone thinks that there is an illegality, he can always turn to the judge. We also saw in yesterday's Council of State judgment concerning the services of honour that the Council is indeed considering. We will follow up that judgment by reviewing the measures for collective implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u30	Madam Secretary, I understand that it is not an exact mathematics and that it is very difficult to find a proper balance. The great pressure of time that comes with it doesn't make it any easier at all. I can also understand that individual disappointments lead to confusion. Unfortunately, there is a possibility that there will be a next time. Then we really should insist on even more logic. Someone with a kitchen store can't understand how a tile store can open. You can say that tiles are do-it-yourself and not a kitchen. Why should an X2O case be open and not a bathroom store? Why can't an automatic car wash be open? These are things that are very difficult for people to grasp. That's not abnormal either. We must strive for even more logic and transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u31	Mr President, Minister, the incident has quickly blown over, but that does not mean that the matter has been resolved. If something like this happens, it can still happen in the future. It was a bit of a shock when we heard that on Saturday 14 November a curfew was set in the spacious center of Willebroek. From 10:00 p.m., no one was allowed to go out on the street. There was a ban on cooperation for more than two people and shops had to close their doors at 6 p.m., including food shops, such as bakers, butchers and so on. These measures were not taken to combat the corona virus, which perhaps we would all have thought at first. They were set up by the mayor as a result of young kids who were abducted. The curfew, which was used for the last time during the Second World War for the corona crisis, was thus used to combat nuisance, never seen in our country in the last 75 years. Such a restriction of our fundamental rights is totally disproportionate and unacceptable in the functioning of a democratic rule of law. It was therefore not surprising that the measure was quickly undone, because it was immediately investigated by the governor and by the Flemish Minister of Interior. I have a few specific questions for you, Madam Secretary. When can a curfew be set? What criteria should be met for such a restriction of our fundamental rights? The question is therefore primarily about the fundamental debate: when can we set a curfew, since it restricts our fundamental rights? My question was put before the measure was withdrawn. I also wanted to ask you what you thought of the decision, but I assume you agreed with the criticism of the measure, which has since been withdrawn. Does a mayor, in your opinion, have the power to impose such far-reaching measures that restrict our fundamental rights on the basis of his own assessment? If so, on what basis should he be allowed to make such a decision? If not, why not? Finally, would you like to take initiatives to prevent such incidents from happening again in the future? If so, which one? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u32	Mr President, Minister, my colleague has already explained it fairly well. I have a lot of questions about the curfew imposed by strict measures in Willebroek on 14 November, but which has since been withdrawn. I'll go straight to the many questions. Firstly, do you consider the introduction of curfews, a ban on cooperation and a ban on trade to be proportionate in the fight against nuisance? Secondly, are such local measures systematically monitored or should there be an official complaint first? Thirdly, in the specific case of Willebroek, has there been a prior discussion of this measure? Fourthly, on 24 November, the city council of Willebroek ratified the police regulation issued by the mayor on 13 November 2020. A second and third regulations, dated 18 and 20 November respectively, abolishing the measures provided for in the first regulation, were not discussed because of late transmission to the municipal council members and are likely to be submitted for ratification to the municipal council in December. Is this possible, given that Article 134 (1) of the new Municipal Act states that they will lapse if they have not been ratified at the next meeting? Fifth, fines were already issued and two persons were identified and arraigned before the judge and already got terms, reported the mayor's cabinet. Apparently, no pvs have been drawn up for the violation of the night clock. In other words, there will never be a discussion through the GAS procedure before the court. So what were pvprs drawn up for? Sixthly, the debate is also about the justification and proportionality of the measures taken. Is it true that mayors can allow derogations from the police regulation without any legal framework or justification? De facto, this means that they are only competent to dismiss or impose penalties under the police regulation. Your Flemish colleague, Minister Somers, said that the balancing of the disproportionate nature lies only with the judge. But isn't that also the responsibility of the custody authority, especially if it receives a complaint in connection with the measures imposed? The exercise of custody must, on the contrary, ensure that administrative measures are taken within a constitutional framework and are given a ruling on them, so as to make it clear whether they can be repeated. How do you see this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u33	Thank you for the questions, Mr Van Hecke and Mr Moyaers. The measure in question was indeed issued on 13 November. On 18 November, the measure was already withdrawn by the mayor, as you have heard. With regard to the legal framework for setting up the night clock in the context of the corona measures, I would like to refer you to the Verhelst judgment of the Council of State, which was delivered on 30 October 2020. This judgment confirms that the imposition of curfew in the light of the corona pandemic may be effective. In any case, it is clear that a night clock cannot be set lightly and can only be imposed exceptionally proportionally. In that sense, Mr Moyaers, I cannot answer your question in general terms, whether that should always be the rule of public order, or never, because it will always have to be judged ad hoc. That measure must also be necessary, because I agree with you on this point, and I agree with you on a far-reaching restriction of our freedoms. It must therefore be demonstrated that the measure is necessary and proportionate to the objective pursued. A mayor can at least set the night clock if that measure is necessary and proportionate in order to maintain public order. There is no strict legal framework for this, but of course these decisions must be justified and considered, so that there can be absolutely no frivolity and unjustified use of discretion. So I think it's an ad hoc assessment. The Council of State does follow the approach in the context of corona. Locally, however, it has been decided to withdraw the measure from which it may be derived. In any case, I have not taken a decision in this regard, nor am I aware of any proceedings initiated against the local measure. Local decisions are not systematically monitored by the federal government. It is the local government, which is responsible for maintaining order in its area and which must take the necessary measures, of course, with due respect for all the legal rules and, of course, the Constitution. I refer in particular to Article 135, §2, seventh of the new municipal law. On this basis, municipalities have different options and can opt for both measures and administrative sanctions. In addition, I refer to Article 134seqies of the new municipal law, which allows the mayor to impose a place ban on persons in the event of disturbance to public policy. In short, there are several possibilities for a mayor or a local government to take measures of order in the context of maintaining public order. Each of these measures will have to be justified and proportionate. I cannot comment on the validity of the mayor's decision. Other authorities, such as the Flemish Region, are responsible for this, as a supervisory authority and possibly a court to which the citizen could refer, if he wishes to challenge certain government decisions. Twelve minutes have already been prepared for violations of police regulations at high speed, in particular infringements of the prohibition on cooperation. Gas fines, covidpvs for cooperation infringements and curfew infringements and other pv's charges on minors were also established for other infringements during the order service of 13, 14 and 15 November 2020. Undoubtedly, these PMIs will be dealt with in the manner laid down by law, taking into account the existing framework and the possibility of repealing the relevant police regulation. It is not up to me, however, to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In the first instance, you refer to the curfew in the context of the corona measures, which is something completely different. A curfew was instituted by the governor's decision. There were also such decisions at a higher level, but they were only taken after lengthy consultation with a large number of authorities, in order to identify the best measure for a given situation. That brings me to the essence of the matter, which you also mention. The measure must always be proportionate. That's an important test. It can always be discussed, but I have the impression that in the places where the curfew was set because of corona, there has been no night ice and the measure has been thoroughly considered. I am concerned, however, if mayors would take such a measure individually in their own municipality, not even within the framework of the coronavirus, in which certain measures might have to be adopted more easily. By the way, there's already a federal framework. However, if they get their inspiration to set a curfew there, while the measure only serves as a response to their own poor security policy, it becomes more worrying. Then it's an easy solution. For me, it is a matter of seizing a curfew, because in a certain neighbourhood or in a certain place some noise or amok is being made, of the fact that the person concerned is not able to conduct a proper security policy in his own municipality. I am concerned when mayors resort to such measures. Monitoring will therefore be important. Flanders also plays a role in this respect, of course, through the governor and the Minister for Home Affairs. This is about fundamental justice and there is also a shared federal competence through the new municipal law. In any case, monitoring is essential to avoid derapages on the ground. That's what I'm really worried about. I would therefore ask you to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u35	Madam Minister, like my colleague, Mr Van Hecke, I am very concerned when mayors resort to an ad hoc decision to set up a curfew. That's unseen. A curfew should by no means be lightly imposed, because it means a far-reaching restriction for all inhabitants of a congregation. The measure must be necessary and proportionate, and that was a little less the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u36	Minister, the political youth association Ecolo J has published in a recent issue a humorous game, to say the least, doubtful. This is a maze in which activists have to find the way out to get a salary increase. So far, don't worry. The rules provide that it is essential not to be arrested by the police, but that signs randomly arranged allow police officers to "smack" them. Madam Minister, you will agree that this type of game is at least inappropriate and particularly when it is published by a political organization that is subsidized by public money. In the current context of increasing attacks on law enforcement, there has already been a lot of talk about this here, which I do not think is acceptable. The co-president of Ecolo J defends himself, seeing in this game a "ludic" approach to union activism. I would, of course, let everyone judge the playful aspect of knocking off, even virtually, the police and the consequences that this can have in the minds of some. I am therefore asking you to know whether, first of all, you have become aware of this publication and how you are reacting to it. On social media, there has been an increase in the call for violence against police officers. It is no longer rare, unfortunately, to see videos of attacks that glorify this behavior. Can it not be estimated that such publications add oil to the fire and fuel this violence? In your view, should measures be taken to prevent future exits that, like this one, normalize and normalize the physical attack on the police? Finally, have you had a return from the ground as regards this publication and the reception it received from the first concerned, namely our police officers, our police forces? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u37	Mrs. Song, Mr. De Maegd, police personnel, as well as those of the security and rescue services, must benefit from the respect and recognition of everyone for the day-to-day execution of their work in the service of society. Any trivialization of violence against the police is unacceptable, as respect for the police and other security services must always be absolute. A coherent and efficient zero tolerance in this area also implies that the dissemination of words or images which, in one way or another, trivialise – or even advocate – these acts of violence should not be taken lightly. I would also point out that incitement to violence can also be a criminal offence. Violence against our police forces must not be taken lightly, and I dare to believe that all parliamentarians and colleagues present in this room (or virtually) will also reject it with a strong signal. With regard to the commitments I intend to make in this regard, I am of course thinking of the establishment and application of the principle of zero tolerance, as I have just mentioned, but also of the systematization of the constitution of civil parties. Ms. Song, as the employer responsible for federal police personnel, I have indeed given the necessary instructions to ensure that the authority's civil action is systematically enforced. In concrete terms, this implies that any form of violence against a member of the federal police will first lead to a declaration as an injured party to the King's prosecutor, with a view to bringing a civil action before the investigating judge, the investigating court or the substantive judge. We will consult the persons or staff concerned on a case-by-case basis and make every effort to ensure that prosecutions are initiated, without delaying or delaying proceedings. My employer responsibility is limited to members of the federal police. For local police personnel, the local authorities have the status of employer and have the same opportunities to file for civil action. Incidents of violence against members of the police are already monitored, on the one hand by means of "Reporting incidents"-type tools on the basis of the initial report and, on the other hand, in accordance with circular GPI 62, with the aim, inter alia, of adapting training and training using proactive and reactive analysis of incidents. For the rest, the procedures relating to the management of serious accidents at work, the intervention of the prevention adviser of the Committee for the Prevention and Protection at Work and the Labour Inspectorate of course remain in force, with a view to taking any appropriate preventive measures. I come more specifically to your second question. For the period from January 2020 to 7 December 2020, 11,023 facts were recorded at national level on the basis of a report; these data are automatically extracted from the MISI tool. At the same time, as far as the federal police are concerned, it appears from the investigation carried out as part of the risk analysis of the psychological aspects of 2018, that staff members are more confronted with assaults than the reference sample. The survey indicates that between 8.3 and 8.4 per cent of employees face verbal or physical attacks every day, between 3 and 16 per cent each week, and between 9 and 28 per cent each month. Within the Federal Police, constant attention is paid to this issue. A website accessible to all members of the integrated police takes up all available information and documentation and is updated if necessary, in line with new developments. The feasibility and modalities of a national awareness campaign are under consideration. To date, this study is not planned within the police force, but I would ask to consider your suggestion. I also inform you that, in accordance with the welfare legislation, the employer organises every five years a risk analysis of psychosocial aspects. For the federal police, the next one is planned in 2023 and will, once again, look at the various aspects of the phenomenon of aggression.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The banalisation and normalisation of all forms of violence against law enforcement must be combated, a fortiori when this banality emanates from a political party which, I would remind you, is subsidized by public money. I like humor very much. I've got a lot myself. But the trivialization of such violence is in my opinion not humor, nor is it playful, in the difficult context that we know. It is our collective sense of responsibility, which seems to escape the environmental association. We do not play with the safety of citizens or police, let alone in a youth magazine. Pierre Desproges said, "You can laugh at everything but not with anyone." I would add, "and not in any context," Madam Minister. A statement to be meditated at the moment, as a matter of urgency, by those who consider that calling a police officer is "a playful approach to union activism". Defend workers' rights, yes, of course, but certainly not on the back of police security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I particularly appreciate your numerical answers, which answer very precisely my few questions in the two questions I have put to you. I also hear that you are sensitive to my proposal for an awareness campaign and that it is under consideration. I welcome this and hope that it will be followed up in the near future. I would also like to thank you for the arrangements you have made. You responded earlier with regard to zero tolerance and the implementation of this measure. I think we can be happy about that. For all these reasons, I would be pleased to be with you to conduct this matter as best we can, because any violence against our services, whether it be security or relief, is obviously unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u40	As has already been said, Mr Vandenput's questions may still be discussed at the end of the sitting. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's 55010970C lapses. Questions Nos 55011007C and 55011008C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u41	Madam Minister, on Wednesday 14 October, we held a short debate on the possible cooperation of police forces with rescue dogs clubs. I asked you at the time whether it was possible for private teams of dog clubs to take a certification test and thus be involved in urgent searches. You replied that there were several factors that make working with private associations impossible. On the one hand, there are legal barriers and, on the other hand, practical obstacles, for example, the fact that private clubs are not allowed to enter private areas. Furthermore, the federal police is not a asking party for the use of private resources in its searches, but wants to continue working with the fire department and civil security. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. Firstly, can you quickly make a very concrete and clear communication here? Secondly, today, private teams dare to imagine themselves as a rescue or rescue service or even as a partner of a public service. Do you also believe that it is useful that there should be an addition or clarification to the Royal Decree of 11 October 2002 on the organisation of kynologian support teams, so that it is clear that the law does not allow private groups to participate in interventions or official searches.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u42	Mr Moyaers, I am indeed referring to my reply of 14 October on this subject. It would be useful for the victims to know better which services they can use. When people are confronted with a disappearance, the victims first and foremost contact the local police. The police know the procedure to bring in the Cell Disappearances of the federal police. She can then contact the dog guides of the federal police. In case of lack of capacity in the case of dog support, the Cell Disappearances may turn to Civil Security, with which there is an agreement. Under no circumstances will private associations be called upon. My administration is well aware of the situation with regard to the use of dynologist private aid teams for the purpose of tracking missing persons. Various actions are therefore being considered for this purpose. First of all, cooperation between police and civil security teams in the phynologist field must be strengthened. Contacts between the two services will soon be established to further improve the quality of this cooperation. A communication will then be sent to the private clubs to remind them that the members of their non-profit association should under no circumstances be allowed to appear or pose as government partners with whom they help to search for missing persons. In any case, there is no legal basis for this either. Finally, we will evaluate Article 3 (2) of the Royal Decree of 11 October 2002 on the organisation of the Kynological Assistance Teams. This article makes it possible to use dog guides which are not part of a public service, the relief zone or the Civil Security area in the context of Kynologian assistance actions. In practice, this possibility was never used as the number of dog guide teams that are part of governments is sufficiently high to meet demand. There's 25 of them. Moreover, the teams belonging to the relief services guarantee a high level of risk-related training and intervention quality while the teams of private clubs cannot offer these guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u43	Madam Secretary, it is important that these private clubs do not come on the ground under any circumstances if a rescue is necessary. The reality is, of course, very often that in the event of a sudden disappearance, the teams dare to present themselves on the ground. If one is looking for a missing child and it is a matter of life and death, then it is obviously very difficult for governments to refuse these teams. It is therefore important that this royal decree be reviewed and that it be adapted if necessary. From your answer, I would say that you will evaluate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u44	Question No 55011095C by Mr Josy Arens is transformed into a written question. Question No 55011128C by Mr Samuel Cogolati is transformed into a written question. The attached question No. 55011137C by Mr. Samuel Cogolati is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Verlinden, you are also Minister for Nuclear Safety. In your policy paper and policy letter, I have not seen many references to these themes. Within a few weeks, you will be a guest in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, chaired by Mr Wollants. That's where I can ask you more questions. Fortunately, the honorable institution of the Court of Auditors exists. A few weeks ago, he published an audit of the state's nuclear sector institutions and the management of administrative risks. You are responsible for the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, the FANC. The Court of Auditors has examined the extent to which the administrative risks are controlled by the institutions of the federal nuclear sector. It has examined whether the action of the institutions is indeed driven by the strategic direction which the State must, of course, set and whether there are enough management tools available to enable the State to ensure effective control and framework. Four institutions have been examined, one of which you are responsible for, namely the FANC. There is a recommendation to clarify the relations between the State and the FANC. I would like to emphasise the management autonomy of the FANC. This is particularly important for the FANC. There may be a need for a protocol specifying the role of the FPS Economy and the FPS Home Affairs, of Mrs Verlinden, a little more. How do you respond in an initial response to the recommendations regarding the legislator and the government regarding your specific competence? What happens to the specific financing of the FANC which will, of course, be heavily impacted by the nuclear exit? In fact, the financing depends largely on the contributions paid by nuclear power producers. However, the FANC is not just about controlling nuclear power producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u46	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the Agency recovers the costs for which it delivers, on the basis of charges and fees laid down in the FANC Act of 15 April 1994. More than three quarters of the FANC's direct revenue comes from the nuclear power plant operator, while the Agency's activities largely cover areas other than nuclear power plants. For example, we refer to the supervision of other nuclear installations, transports, security, medical applications. In addition, the Agency carries out a number of public utility contracts which cannot be charged to a single specific authorisation holder, such as environmental monitoring, radon protection, information provision, support for emergency planning. The FANC Act lays down the legal framework for the income of the FANC. Fourthly, Article 30a sets out the charges for nuclear power plants. For a power reactor in operation, the annual levy was just over 3.3 million euros in 2017. With indexation for Objective 1 and Objective 2, this amounts to half of this amount each time. For a nuclear reactor for power generation in decommissioning, the annual levy was almost 400,000 euros in 2017, with indexation. For a good understanding, it is important to define when the transfer of charges takes place. Indeed, if a power reactor is shut down, a period is set to be called the definitive shutdown. At that time, the current operating licence will continue to apply and the corresponding levy will continue to apply. During this period, a number of preparatory work on decommissioning will be carried out. Meanwhile, an application for decommissioning is also submitted by the operator. This then leads to the decommissioning permit. Following the granting of this decommissioning authorisation, the reduced levy shall be applied. The duration of this permanent cessation depends to a large extent on the speed of action of the operator, but is estimated for several years. This means, in concrete terms, that there will be a limited decline in FANC's revenue after 2024, but there will be a greater impact on revenue from 2025-2026 and will fall very sharply. At present, the FANC is working on a review of its strategic plan, which will include a task analysis, taking into account the changing context, an analysis of the new working method and so on. Consequently, in order to continue to fulfil its mission in the future, namely to protect the Belgian population, workers and the environment from the dangers of ionizing radiation, the financing mechanism of the FANC will have to be adapted to the new situation. As regards the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, these are currently being analysed by the relevant actors, as the report has only recently been published. We will examine, in consultation with the FANC, how further follow-up can be given to these recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answer, especially the comprehensive answer on the financing mechanism. This will allow us to continue the dusting of our discussions in the subcommittee. The report is indeed quite recent and you and the FANC need to take a close look at these recommendations. We will certainly return to this at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u48	Questions Nos 55011189C, 55011245C and 55011246C by Mr Samuel Cogolati are transformed into written questions. As Mr Bombled was absent, his question No 55011252C was not applicable. Question No 55011271C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u49	Mr Segers is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u50	Minister, on Monday, November 22, the trial was opened against the police officer who had fatally hit little Mawda. I don't need to re-explain the case. I am interested in the fact that Committee P concluded in its report that the use of a firearm under these conditions was highly discouraged and therefore recommended better training of police officers in this regard. The last training of the police officer in question was in 2009, according to the information brought to my knowledge, almost a decade before the facts. This was neither the first nor the last time the police used this method during the race-prosecution, the only difference being that the outcome of it was undeniably tragic. Minister, what are the intervention techniques taught in the race-prosecution? Is this type of shooting part of it? Are other means not more appropriate? Is better police equipment therefore envisaged? Can you inform us about the frequency and content of training on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u51	Minister, as you know, this case is currently being dealt with in court. I therefore believe that this is not the time at all to point out the details in our questions, even if only in the interests of separation of powers. That said, this case highlights the so-called Medusa operation on which I wanted to ask you a few questions. Indeed, during the various media coverages of what is called the Mawda affair, which is primarily the case of a horrific and tragic death and of a bereaved family, the police, in the various interventions, define this operation Medusa in a completely different way with, sometimes, completely distinct objectives. I therefore think it is interesting to be able to objective this operation again. Minister, what are the objectives of this Medusa operation? Have they always targeted the fight against smugglers or, as some have pointed out, have they been more broadly involved in the fight against illegal migration? Has the operational framework evolved since its initial implementation in 2014? How do you explain that the police officers, who are involved in the same operations, do not justify them in the same way? Do police officers receive specific training for this particular operation? Are there specific instructions in these operations for the relief of victims of human trafficking, regardless of the legality of their residence permits? Are Medusa operations or other similar operations still being carried out today? If so, how many operations were conducted in 2020 and with what result?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u52	Nor will I recall the dramatic events that led to the death of little Mawda. Each and every one of us keeps them sadly in memory and the news still reminds us today, with this ongoing trial. Nor will I go back to criminal procedure because it is not our political responsibility to rule on the facts and to judge individual acts. It will be up to justice to bring the judicial truth and to do so independently in the coming days. However, as my colleagues have said, this tragedy must lead us to change our functioning and that of the institutions which, through their organisation, can have a responsibility for the acts committed. This tragedy led Committee P to submit an investigation report, which referred to a number of recommendations to prevent such a tragedy from reoccurring in the future. From a political point of view, it goes without saying that the general context, the instructions given by your predecessor in the fight against transmigrants and the understaffing of the road police have helped to give birth to the circumstances that allowed this tragedy to occur. Beyond these elements, however, the P Committee has made structural recommendations that focus on three areas: the role of co-ordinator supervisors, the consistency of intervention tactics and the control of radiocommunications. This report was published almost two years ago – it was published on January 29, 2019. What concrete steps have been taken to implement these recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u53	Mr President, Mr Segers, a number of questions from you are part of the investigation into this matter which will shortly be the subject of a ruling in court. I cannot therefore speak on this matter today. The police have replaced the findings made in this case as well as the recommendations made by the P Committee in order to avoid this kind of drama in the future. In any case, it is still difficult to distinguish between smugglers on the one hand and transmigrants on the other. Smugglers do everything they can not stand out and be caught. They are often indistinguishable from the transmigrants they transport. During interceptions they usually hide between their customers and thus try to escape the radar of the police. The transmigrants themselves usually feel dependent on the organization that would organise the transit to the United Kingdom for them. All persons who have been interviewed are initially treated as victims by the police. Only when there are indications that one of the persons would be a possible smuggler of human beings will legal proceedings be initiated. To expose these kinds of networks, it is important to exchange knowledge and expertise. The E40 consultation that you spoke about is a consultation platform that has grown organically. The consultation format was taken into account as a best practice during the development of a policy aimed at a more adapted and appropriate tailor-made approach. The tandem governor and director-coordinator is the driving force. They organise a wide multidisciplinary meeting with all relevant actors on a regular basis in all provinces. Together, the most appropriate way to deal with this is sought and everyone's efforts are further coordinated and coordinated. Madam Song, the integrated police are constantly looking for the most secure and least intrusive solutions in the philosophy of violence control. Current police procedures encourage observation and/or interception by means of a well-established device. This method is preferred to a risky operation during driving and to an attempt to physically force a vehicle to stop. The current updated training consists of four hours. This is the basic knowledge made available to each police officer. They will either be integrated into basic training from 2021 onwards or will be subject to ongoing training for operational staff already in operation. In general, training covers the legality and risk assessment of prosecution and interception, coordination of such an event and good practice. Moutquin, Operation Medusa is a generic term for all coordinated police actions in transit migration. These actions always have a dual purpose, both administrative and judicial, in that they are part of the fight against the nuisances which result therefrom and also in the fight against the crime which can be linked to it and, more particularly, trafficking in human beings. Indeed, the two phenomena (transit migration and trafficking in human beings) are unfortunately frequently associated. One Operation Medusa does not differ so much from another gathering of the police forces. Every police operation is based on legal and regulatory texts. All these elements are repeated during each operation and communicated orally during the operational briefing to all police officers present. The behaviour to be adopted, the techniques to be applied, the procedures to be followed are all fundamental milestones taught to each police officer from the basic training. In order to ensure proper treatment of the persons concerned, the police advocate a humane approach to the phenomenon through respectful and empathetic care of the persons arrested. This approach is explained in detail in the Joint Confidential Circular of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior and the College of Attorneys General COL 1 of 2015. However, the police are also required to ensure compliance with the legal provisions relating to access to the territory, residence, settlement and removal of aliens. Their duty is to make available to the Aliens Office persons arrested in situations of illegal residence. During administrative treatment, they are informed of the possibilities to apply for asylum and to obtain additional assistance. They receive all information about their rights. During their stay at the police station, the intercepted persons receive all necessary meals and drinks. They are also entitled to medical assistance. Covers are available to warm up. There are several well-known cases where police officers, in their personal capacity, have gathered old clothes or toys to offer them to people and families in need, as I have already told you before. As you know, the police have been heavily asked for several additional tasks to monitor health measures taken to control the VOCID-19 epidemic in our country. As a result, the number of major coordinated actions has been much smaller. Nevertheless, the approach to transit migration is integrated into regular work and large-scale and smaller actions have been organised. For the period from 1 January to 30 November, 86 monitoring actions were reported by the local police and the federal police. A total of 593 people who were illegally in our country were arrested during these actions. Finally, Mr Rigot, the recommendations of the P Committee gave rise to the directive "Approaching Unplanned Dynamic Events on Motorways", in which the role of administrative authorities, operational management and national contact point is determined. You will find that many concrete measures have been implemented or are in the finalisation phase, among which, and in relation to the three axes you mention: the role of the supervisors-coordinators, the uniformity of the intervention tactics, the mastery of radiocommunications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u54	Madam Minister, I cannot hide the fact that I am somewhat disappointed by your reply, because you referred in particular to the current legislation and the ongoing investigation. The problem is not there, because our legislation is not only good; it is even a precursor at international level. In practice, however, it often goes wrong, and that has happened here too. I have also just questioned Minister Van Quickenborne about this and he has told me that neither the Voogdij department nor the reference office has been informed by the police. Above all, I want lessons to be drawn from this, from what has gone wrong and from what you want to do better. It is effectively difficult to distinguish smugglers and smugglers from each other, but there are precents, for example with the E40 network. You say that this has grown organically, but it is up to the Minister to transfer the good practices elsewhere, if the same phenomena appear there. In this way, the smugglers can be distinguished from the smugglers at an early stage. That's what I expect from you. I therefore hope that we will be able to draw lessons from the Mawda case, so that we do not have to establish in a few years' time that the exact same thing has happened again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u55	Madam Minister, while thanking you for your answers, I must admit that I am somewhat hungry, because further clarification could be given. As you know, on the occasion of reading your political note, I asked you about police training. The incidents we have just talked about must allow us to learn lessons so as to reflect on the adaptation of this training, both at the academy and in the context of continuing training. It is important for our police officers to be able to deal with this phenomenon in good conditions, in order to avoid any incidents during such special interventions and to compensate for a certain lack of knowledge in the response to be given. That is why, Madam Minister, I would ask you to remain very attentive to the implementation of the recommendations made by Committee P, concerning the training of police officers in the shootings produced during chase races. I thank you in advance for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I think is quite complete. Since we are often attributed this attitude, I will try not to sacrifice to angelism. This issue of the relationship between smugglers and migrants is extremely complex. Moreover, it has been the subject of several reports from Myria. Let us take the example of a person arriving from Cambodia, who paid 12,000 euros to get here. He is sometimes offered to drive a van in exchange for a passage to the Channel. Is it a smuggler or a migrant in transit? In short, the manipulation by smugglers is unhealthy and indecent. In any case, this shows us that the solution will not necessarily be of a safe nature, but will have to lead to the recognition of the migrant as a victim of trafficking rather than as a responsible person. The name of this operation, namely "Medusa", initially refers to the Gorgone of Greek mythology, which petrified the people who looked at it. In other words, Belgium is deploying an operation supposed to rescue migrants and combat illegality, but whose name refers to a petrifying legend. In short, the philosophy of this initiative is thus revealed: it is not intended to help victims. But in addition to helping them, we need information. A large part of these migrants, placed under the yoke of traffickers and sexually exploited and whose children are disappearing, are so because they lack information about their rights in Belgium. I am sure that we will be able to fight traffickers and smugglers when the victims have the right information, for example when the Cambodian knows that he can file a case in Belgium and enjoy asylum rights. To do this, we really need to get out of this only safe approach. I hope that a tragedy like the one we have experienced will never happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, you have told us about a series of measures and the adaptation of the trainings. This is a good thing, but it is only one part of all the recommendations made. That is obviously necessary. You said the police are advocating a humane approach to interventions. I hope so. It seems so obvious that it does not even seem useful to me to remind him. I hope that does not date from the tragedy we have experienced. However, I confess that I am not entirely convinced of the real awareness of our law enforcement forces. I have the feeling of a certain fatalism or, in any case, the impression that this tragedy is considered to be an incident that could no longer happen. However, as Mr Segers said, this could happen again if we do not draw collective lessons from what has happened. If justice is soon to decide on a case and determine whether or not individual responsibilities, as legislators and elected officials, it is up to us to take all the necessary steps to ensure that such tragedies do not occur, never again. The P Committee has made recommendations to address structural issues. You were talking earlier about tactical measures, about current guidelines, including one that would already be applied. Could you provide them to the House, as well as an update on the tactical measures that are already being implemented? Minister, these recommendations cannot remain a dead letter. We need to act now. We have had to do this for a year and a half. We must ensure that this implementation is carried out, and I will certainly come back to you to make sure that this dossier is followed up and that we do not have to ask ourselves the question, some day or another, in the face of another tragedy, whether or not we have learned the lessons of the past. Minister, I really count on you to speed up this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u58	Madam Minister, on 28 October, identity checks were carried out in the Brussels-Ixelles police area, including VOCID checks. Three people were arrested and then released. An investigation has been opened and is still under way. Violence against the police is absolutely unacceptable. In this context, I would like to remind you that the government agreement provides for the application of a zero tolerance for acts of violence against police officers. We know that many VPs have been drawn up for non-compliance with the VOCID rules: 605 for the Brussels-Ixelles area alone, not to mention what is now called lockdown parties. We heard in the press this morning that the mayor of Ixelles is calling for a concerted strategy to combat petty neighbourhood crime by strengthening the coordination of all the services involved in one of the stages. According to him, most of the tensions between the police and part of the population are linked to drug trafficking. It calls for a concerted strategy with the federal and the Communities and Regions levels of power to stop the phenomenon of small crime, which I can very well share. Madam Secretary, you visited Elsene on Thursday 26 November to discuss this issue with the municipality. According to the press, both the repressive and the preventive aspects were discussed. You have stated that you are committed to "strengthening the police with an additional budget, additional staff, investments in training and technological tools to ensure that police officers in the field are better protected". Minister, can you give us more information on the conclusions of your meeting with the municipal authorities, on the strategy that could be put in place, with the federal level, to combat petty neighbourhood crime? Have you had any contact with other levels of authority on this matter? You also stated that the police would be equipped with technological tools to ensure that police officers in the field are better protected. Are you referring to the small camera that police officers wear on the torso and that they can activate during an intervention or are you referring to other technological tools?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u59	Dear colleague Gilson, the meeting with the Ixelles authorities and police was very positive and constructive. I thank them for that. I had the opportunity to speak with the police officers involved in the incident on psychosocial aspects and their integration. I also talked to the detective in the neighborhood where the incident took place. I have discussed, with the mayor and the first member in charge of Youth, the strengthening and the need to re-establish a good relationship between police and youth based on mutual respect, obviously without ignoring the criminal facts and rebellions for which a firm response will remain applicable. We will stay in touch and have similar visits to other police areas in Brussels. With regard to the fight against small-scale neighbourhood crime, I am considering an increase in the number of police officers in order to increase the police presence on the ground, in particular through my objective of recruiting 1,600 police officers, as well as raising the awareness of the judiciary on this issue. In order to protect police officers in the field, it is indeed necessary to examine what technological tool such as bodycams, for example, and electrically pulsed weapons can contribute to this. I quote two initiatives planned in 2021. On the one hand, the pre-test phase of the use of the electric pulse weapon will end in 2021. This assessment will allow me to examine whether this means is relevant to police officers, particularly in the context of police violence. On the other hand, as far as bodycams are concerned, the necessary legislative initiatives are taken in order to be able to use bodycam effectively. In this regard, the local police zone Brussels-Ixelles participates in this bodycam project and is part of the working group led by the Internal SPF.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u60	Madam Minister, I thank you for all these initiatives that seem to me to be truly commendable and that demonstrate your willingness to find solutions to combat crime and strengthen the safety of the men and women who live in our country. The MR Group will always be with you in these initiatives to improve security, which is really an essential right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u61	Mr Verduyckt is not present at the moment for his question No. 55011428C. He might hook up later. Questions Nos 55011440C and 55011445C by Ms.Julie Song are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u62	Madam Minister, on 18 November, you sent PLP60 to the different police areas with the teachings for the preparation of the police budget for 2021. As far as the Road Safety Fund is concerned, these are very negative for each zone: the amount of the first disk of the grant is not yet known and cannot therefore be registered and the amount of the second disk, which concerns the 2016 balance, is lower than last year. On the website of the VVSG we read that a total amount of EUR 19.6 million is entered in the 2021 budget. That is EUR 37 million less than in previous years. For the police areas, the reduction of the second disc will have financial consequences. Small areas such as mine receive EUR 100,000 less, for larger areas it is even a multiple. Madam Secretary, is the reduction of the second disc a result of the sixth state reform? If so, will the amount of the reduction be paid to the regions? When will the amount of the first disk per zone be known?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u63	Mr Vandenput, I mentioned this last week in response to topical questions. The reduction in the second disc is not a result of the sixth state reform, as its financial impact is offset by the federal budget. As a result, since 2016, an amount of 181 million euros, linked to the average consumer price index of 2011, has been added to the amount of federal revenue. As regards the balance for 2016, the lower revenues are likely to be the result of the terrorist attacks. As a result, there were fewer revenues from traffic fines in that year. This now translates into the resources available to the Fund. During March, the FPS Finance will report the final amount of revenue for 2020 on road safety. On the basis of this information, the amount will be calculated and communicated to the police zones. Last week I consulted with the VVSG and the Walloon counterpart on how to translate this into local budgets. I informed Parliament last week that, according to the latest information, more than likely the full amount of the first instalment will be available to the police zones, given the resources available today. In any event, the Road Safety Fund will be examined in the context of the reform of the financing of local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I conclude from that that the police zones are not financially at risk and that they can simply continue to work. Then we'll wait for the instructions next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u65	Mr President, Minister, it is nice to meet you too. I have a question for you about access to encrypted information. I have seen in the report that the European Ministers for the Interior have stated together that all available instruments are being used in the fight against terror, which is, of course, an understandable message. One of the cases cited came from your German fellow minister, who stated that it is also necessary for investigators to have access to encrypted information. We all know WhatsApp. There are a number of other services where the information is encrypted. At WhatsApp that goes through the big servers of Facebook. Today, however, this is a fact. What is your position on the matter? After all, it is a remarkable position in itself, and I do not want to say that security is not important. However, when considering security against privacy, it is always important to respect a certain proportionality. So I would have liked to have heard your views on the position taken by the European Ministers for the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u66	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, it is indeed a pleasure to meet you. The issue of access to encrypted information is a topical issue in the debate on the fight against violent radicalism and extremism. There is broad agreement within the European Union that we must do everything we can to prevent the Internet from being used as a facilitator for those but also for other serious crimes. In order to avoid the Internet becoming a free port for communicating the planning or execution of crimes, governments should, in certain cases, have the possibility to take note of the content of encrypted messages. However, encryption is a typical example of the balance to be struck between, on the one hand, the obvious importance of citizens, economic actors and government to communicate safely and, on the other hand, the ability to understand the content of that communication as well as the expectation and duty of those same authorities to detect and prefer to prevent serious crimes. It seems to me that this can only be met if both the technological system for accessing those encrypted data and all other conditions under which access can be obtained are included in a legislative framework. Because the problem transcends the national level, the European Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, the Internet world and other partners, will take the lead. At the initiative of the German EU Presidency, a resolution has already been prepared within the Internal Security Committee within the European Council in favour of developing such a legal basis. I fully support this initiative to put the heads together. It goes without saying that criminals are trying to shield their communications, and that is nothing new. Therefore, the Code of Criminal Procedure already provides that an investigating judge may require the encrypted information to be decrypted, in other words that the content is made available in the form he or she wishes. To enable that decryption, the operator's or other persons' cooperation may be sought. There is therefore a duty of cooperation here. The conditions for this claim are described in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The investigating judge must, of course, take account of the principle of proportionality, which must strike a balance between the right to privacy and the security that is so necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u67	Madam Minister, you have used the word balance twice in your reply, and I think this is very important in this regard. For the sake of clarity, I think it is only natural that this information should be requested in the context of investigations. These messaging services are used a lot and contain huge amounts of information, so it seems to me to be looking for a pin in a haystack. On the other hand, there is the creativity of criminals and terrorists. I therefore call for the balance to be maintained between these two basic rights, and I shall continue to follow this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u68	Question No 55011513C by Mr Samuel Cogolati is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u69	Madam Minister, the media recently mentioned a number of so-called ruse-theft cases, in which malicious people spend themselves at the door for nurses, police officers or utility staff in order to commit a home theft, often among older citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u70	Mr Vandenput, theft with ruse is not central but succeeded by the DJSOC Thefts. The AD Security and Prevention has communicated on several occasions to raise public awareness and encourage municipalities and police areas to take action on this issue. Through regular communication flashes, we encourage municipalities to remind citizens of a number of tips such as out the window or through the viewing hole to see if the door chain or door phone is used when opening the door. It is also recommended to keep the door closed, as long as one doubts the intentions of the visitor. You can also ask for a service card from the visitor if it is not shown automatically. One can also ask, for example, to slide the service card under the door before opening the door. It is also recommended, if no service card can be presented, that access is refused. Consideration could also be given to whether a company car or police vehicle is being used to see if this could give rise to further identification. If there's any doubt, it's better safe than sorry. Then one better make an appointment for a later time or one can even call the police if there are really questions about security. The AD Security and Prevention also published an article in the IBZ Safety Newsletter based on information provided by the Brussels-North police area. Local authorities, police forces and associations of at-risk groups such as the elderly are important partners to raise awareness of the risk groups and make them resistant to theft with ruse. In case of doubt, we recommend contacting the local police, so that the necessary findings can be made. The figures cannot be provided in the short term, but if you submit that question in writing, we will certainly be able to answer them. In any case, police crime statistics can be found on the Federal Police website under crime statistics. In 2019, national 6,340 counts of theft were recorded with ruse. The figures for 2020 are not yet available. Theft with ruse is not included in the National Security Plan. The number of facts is also relatively low, although each fact is too much. However, many municipalities and cities take and organise initiatives and register them in the strategic security and prevention plans supported and supported by the Home Affairs Office. The possibility exists to establish a suprazonal platform, specifically for this phenomenon, if deemed appropriate. All these measures and initiatives together should further limit such facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u71	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that adequate attention is being paid to it. Sensitisation is indeed a work of all of us. We publish recommendations twice a year in our city magazine. Whatever helps is a BIN. We have a very active neighbourhood information network, and if there are suspects at one door, it is automatically reported. Maybe that's something we can give to other police zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u72	Questions Nos 55011518C and 55011519C by Mrs Laurence Zanchetta are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u73	Minister, in recent months, many images published online and in the media have revealed the negative reactions (bullying, arrest, even violence) of some police officers directed against citizens filming their interventions. In general, the law does not prohibit the taking of photographs or the act of filming a police action in public spaces. The right to film the police is also reinforced by case law, which gives priority to the need to monitor police action in a state governed by the rule of law. While the issue of "filmers" is addressed within the framework of police training, notably through the themes of violence control, stress management and ethics, which explicitly emphasises their legitimacy, the facts observed in recent months prompt us to wonder whether the elements of police training on this subject are sufficient to prepare the police officers to work under the objective of passers-by. Minister, can we have your feedback on the issue? Do you consider the current police training appropriate to this problem? Are you considering initiatives to strengthen the treatment of the issue of "wild films" exposed during police training?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u74	Colleague Senesael, members of the police services have been increasingly aware of this phenomenon, which concerns many aspects of the police profession. It is addressed to varying degrees in a number of training courses: ethics, violence control and stress management that you yourself point out, but also in the field of administrative police and, more particularly, in the negotiated management of the public space, where this aspect is integrated both in the "legal framework" theory and in the practical exercises concerning the behaviours and attitudes to be adopted. We can also point to the ongoing social media training offered to all police officers, which is well suited to the study of this problem. From their basic training, this topic is addressed with the aspirants police through various clusters, such as ethics, the law on the police function, police interventions, communication, but also in integrated exercises. However, there is no training module specifically devoted to this phenomenon, either in basic or continuing training. To date, I am not considering any more specific initiatives. It is primarily the responsibility of training operators to ensure that this current phenomenon is properly integrated into the framework of various existing training courses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe, however, that this requires reflection, that the aspects relating to these films and to everything that is conveyed must be taken into account in the consultations aimed at improving police training in order to refer again to your general policy note. I think that, in the future, these facts or this phenomenon will only increase. In my view, it would be useful, if not necessary, to consider integrating all these elements into police training. I have no doubt for a moment that you will give it all the necessary importance, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u76	I do not see Mr Segers anymore, but there are three further questions pending from Mr Vandenput, Madam Minister, so I would like to deal with them now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u77	Mr President, I have a proposal. I would like to ask my question about Jozef Chovanec and the other two questions can be converted into written questions. The answers to that are still ready, so they can follow pretty quickly, I suppose. That way, we will remain within the envisaged timeframe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput's 55011475C and 550011517C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u79	My question concerns the Chovanec case. On 1 September, before your appointment, we had a debate in this committee with, among other things, the Commissioner-General and the then Minister for Security, Mr Jambon, on what happened then. At that time, the Commissioner-General said that a number of internal investigations were being carried out and that he would return to the committee at the end of the investigations. The P Committee has also carried out an investigation. Yesterday I heard from the chairman of the Committee P that they have finished the report and that it will be presented next week. We will also be able to obtain a copy of the report in this committee. So I won't ask about that. About two to three weeks ago, I read in the press that Mr Desenfants had been reinstated. The internal investigation was over and he wasn't to blame. This news surprised me a little. Where are the internal investigations announced by the Commissioner-General? Are they over, or is there anything else that needs to be done? Can you give us an update on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u80	Mr Vandenput, you will understand that I must be careful in my reply, given the current procedures. I can tell you that the internal investigation of the federal police is still ongoing. An interim conclusion of the internal investigation found or indicated that Mr André Desenfants had not been informed of its existence at any time before the appearance of the images in the media. According to that internal investigation, he was only informed of the facts via the Federal Police press release of 1 March 2018. On the basis of this interim conclusion, Mr Desenfants himself decided not to step aside after he had done so earlier this year and to resume his post as Director-General. I myself will await the rest of the internal investigation and see whether, and if so, what additional or other measures will be needed. As you yourself pointed out, the monitoring study of the P Committee will be presented to the special advisory committee of this Parliament in the near future and the necessary discussions and consequences will be taken on this basis. In order to improve the performance of similar interventions in the future, a better approach to the excited delirium syndrome is being developed. On 30 September, a prevention sheet was distributed to all members of the integrated police force. Within the medical world, there is no consensus on the right approach to EDS. This makes it even more difficult for intermediate policemen without medical training. In addition to the manuals for the special units and units of special assistance from the local police, a guide for the first-line services was developed and discussed with the syndicated partners. The first training modules were given this month to 160 trainers, including 80 Dutch speakers and 80 French speakers. In each basic training, a module will also be devoted to EDS, which will in future make up every new staff member of the operational framework in this area. A multidisciplinary working group of police, medical and public prosecutors was also set up by my services. It should address the wider problem of dealing with confused persons. The aim is to reach concrete agreements, working arrangements and directives. Finally, it was decided for the federal police that, in the event of similar incidents, the officer of the administrative police should start to verify the situation on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic315x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand that you must be very careful, but I have received sufficient information. The federal investigation is therefore still ongoing and the interim result is that Mr Desenfants has taken up his post again. I'm curious about that investigation. After all, I want to know what the role of the aviation police is in this and I hope that this will emerge. I am pleased that training has already been provided to deal with difficult conditions on the ground. I think this is a very important step to avoid such matters in the future.
