ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda is a topical debate on FinCEN. Mr Bertels has the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u2	Madam President, I would like to take the floor on the order of business. We live in special times. In this context, there are also new agreements on the organisation of our parliamentary work, which are based on a dual organisation, both physically and digitally. I note that the Minister has also decided to be present digitally. I do not know the exact reason for this, the minister may be in quarantine or he has had sensitive contacts, but I would like to leave the reason in the middle. However, I would like to say very clearly today that the discussion of parliamentary questions can best take place in as direct contact with the Minister as possible, in a secure manner. That is what we expect when we talk about legislative dossiers. In such cases, maximum care must be taken to ensure that the Minister is present in Parliament. Today there are oral questions on the agenda and I note that the Minister has decided to take part in the meeting by digital means. So be it, no reproach, for these are special times. However, we must understand from each other, when there is legislative work here, that this is best organized in a safe manner in direct contact with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u3	Technically, I don't know how to organize things. I turn to the secretary of the commission. Mr Loones, yesterday I had a telephone call with Minister Van Peteghem. The minister asked me whether he should be physically present or not. I told him that in the past, it has happened to me – and some Members here know – not to be systematically present in the Committee on Economy, not that I did not want it or that I was afraid to be contaminated, but because it was more convenient for me at that time. I salute the minister since today it is his first committee as minister to answer questions from parliamentarians. He told me he'd rather be in his office right now. If next time or for the other committees, he can be present, of course he will come. Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u4	Madam President, first of all I would like to warmly address you all and say that I look forward to working with this committee. I understand that it is a pity that we cannot physically meet today. This is also the result of agreements in the Ministerial Decree, which states that teleworking is the rule. From that point of view, I contacted the committee chairman yesterday about whether it was possible to meet online. I actually thought that was the most logical choice we could make. I understand, of course, Mr Loones' question. I will, of course, be present in the committee room when discussing legislative work, as specifically agreed with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u5	Madam President, Minister, nice digital introduction. For me it is important what answers you will give to the various questions we will ask you today, first about the FinCEN Files, a firm opener. You are undoubtedly familiar with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) Mr. Minister. We have already held a hearing on this with the three Belgian journalists who have participated in its revelations. Soon other colleagues will also be asking questions about that hearing. For the FinCEN Files, journalists from all over the world investigated more than 2,100 secret reports. Those FinCEN Files are reports that banks did to the American anti-money laundering cell FinCEN about over 2,000 billion dollars of suspicious money flows. It has to be said, Minister, that no Belgian bank appears as often in the FinCEN Files as ING Belgium. I'm not ashamed to mention them. That has also been announced through the media. Belgian ING accounts have been used by foreign banks with shady customers, according to these leaked American reports. This was made very clear in the hearing with Belgian journalists. Both our National Bank, the regulator, and the anti-money laundering cell report that there are still a lot of significant shortcomings in the Belgian banks. We should be able to get a better view of this. That's a result of that hearing. Apparently billions of dollars are laundered through Belgian bank accounts. All too often, as confirmed by the investigative journalists, the banks intervene too late when there are suspicious transactions. The following is clear to everyone. There is a high risk of money laundering in correspondent banking services. There are Belgian banks that still offer them. Some say that they stopped doing so a few years ago, but not all banks have stopped doing so. Those who still do, of course, do so for a reason. They do so for more than 2,000 other banks, just over half of which are outside the European Union, which makes them less controlled. Minister, less than four years ago the Panama Papers appeared and the committee's recommendations on the Panama Papers were published in relation to tax havens. At that time it was already promised to take stricter action, but unfortunately we have not yet learned enough or everything. Not all recommendations could be implemented or not all recommendations applied by our banks. The other questions, about the supervisor and the ISC, will be here shortly. I'm gonna respect the order of business. Now I have the following questions. Have you and the tax authorities already received this information regarding the FinCEN Files? Were the major banks concerned already checked? Was there any additional information requested by the tax administration? If so, have actions already been taken? A pain point is the following. Have there been any contacts between your administration and the Justice Department? Have judicial investigations been initiated? Next measure can help for the future. What is your opinion on banning transactions with strangers? Would you consider introducing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I would like to begin by expressing my congratulations on your appointment as Minister of Finance. Since Sunday evening you have also been coordinator of the fight against fraud, I read in the ministerial decision. Madam President, I am going to deal with the supervisor in my question and in my exposé, and I am not going to separate it. In Belgium, the National Bank, the regulator, states that financial institutions are increasingly investing in the fight against money laundering. That's a slightly different opening. It's a positive opening. It's a good opening. So there is a positive evolution. At the same time, as a result of the leaked documents of the American anti-money laundering cell, Belgium appears in more than 300 out of about 2,000 reports and in our country it continues to notice'significant shortcomings in this area'. This shows that "despite good intentions, the concrete achievements in the field show serious shortcomings." We are talking about correspondent banking services. The National Bank, therefore, the regulator, also recognises that there is a problem there. These services of correspondent banking are vital for international trade and international financial operations and it is impossible to demand that correspondent banks know the clients of the other banks as well as their own clients. Therefore, the supervisor states that the correspondent banks should at least know the reputation of the other bank and the measures they take against money laundering. According to the supervisor, our banks must also be permanently vigilant in the transactions that are requested from them. These must not deviate from the profile of the other banks and, if necessary, must be indicated at the anti-money laundering cell. Minister, what improvements and reinforcements do you think are possible at the banks in our country with regard to their gatekeeper role in the fight against financial crime? Have the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee been implemented? Are they all being applied? I may be kicking down an open door with this and we certainly need to talk about it in the long term. In what sense can and should we go beyond mere reporting on transactions? Now banks have to report it only if they have suspicions or reasonable indications of money laundering. Has the IRS taken an initiative on these files? Has a judicial investigation started yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u7	Madam President, thank you. Good morning and welcome, Minister. Congratulations on your new duties. My question concerns the investigation (...) conducted by an international consortium of journalists and which shows how much today (...) what has been known for a long time (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u8	Mr. Laaouej, there are problems with your microphone. Can you stand still in front of your microphone, because we hear you in pieces?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u9	These repeated scandals show one recurring thing: the major channels of international tax fraud, of financial crime in general, always fall on the financial channels. From this point of view, banks play a central role. It will be remembered that they came to swear their hand on the heart that they had nothing to do with the Panama Papers. Here we see the names of some Belgian banks, in particular, coming out. We would like to know what you intend to do with the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee, to take stock of those that have been implemented and those that have not and, above all, to remember that a large number of proposals have not received majority approval. We can provide them to you, but it certainly shows that there is work on the board. My questions are very simple. Has your administration seized the file and in particular the Special Inspectorate of Taxes? What about the relationship between your services and the judiciary in an attempt to coordinate your response to this scandal? Will you (...) reserve yourself to this important stream of tax evasion in your future plan to combat tax evasion that we hope will be submitted to us quickly? (...) the coordination body against tax fraud, in particular, which brings together all the services and allows the exchange of information. Minister, my questions are clear. They can be summarized as follows:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u10	Mr Laaouej, you are not heard, but I assume that the minister has read the written text of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u11	Madam President, may I speak in the topical and urgent debate without having tabled a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u12	You will then be able to do so, Mr Leysen, with the unanimous agreement of the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the recent revelations have shown us that major improvements are still possible and necessary in the Belgian, European and international fight against money laundering. The enormous size of the amounts mentioned must wake us all up. Money laundering is inextricably linked to corruption, tax fraud, crime and terrorism. That's what the reporters said in their hearing. It's not just a financial file. In Belgium, there appears to be a major discrepancy between the notifications received by the Financial Information Processing Cell, the CFI, the notifications that the CFI transmits to the public prosecutors and the files that are eventually being prosecuted. In addition, there appears to be a great deal of suspension of the internal policies of part of the financial sector. A number of questions can even be asked about the functioning of the National Bank as a supervisor. I have a separate question about that later. What measures do you intend to take to address the problems and gaps raised in the various articles? Do you support the call for an equivalent of the CFI organised at European level in order to ensure better coordination and follow-up of, by definition, international dossiers? Have you already taken steps on this or are you planning to take steps in the near future? Are you planning an evaluation of the staff and resources of the CFI? Do you think the Belgian banks put in place sufficient instruments to prevent, detect and stop money laundering through their facilities? How do you evaluate the operation of the Egmont Group, the international cooperation of financial intelligence services? What points of improvement do you see there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u14	The Minister will come to our room. He's looking for a parking lot. Mr Loones, I hope you are satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u15	Minister, the umpteenth leak reported by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) highlights in particular the role of banks in financial crime. Although this is information from the anti-money laundering service in the United States, Belgium and Belgian banks are particularly concerned. Indeed, in a leak that involves only 2,100 documents, the name of our country appears 365 times – it is huge for a leak that, a priori, does not concern us! The four main Belgian banks (ING, KBC, Belfius, BNP Paribas Fortis) are present in these files, in particular ING. I also note that among the six major international banks involved in this scandal, three are listed in the Top 15 of the Belgian bank balance sheets: Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan and Bank of New York Mellon. During the work of the PanamaPapers commission conducted in the House in 2016-17, bank officials came to say that things had changed and that all their activities had become clean, as they were heavily controlled by the National Bank and TIFC. However, this new leak shows that this is not the case or, in any case, that the measures are far from sufficient. I come to my questions to the Minister. What actions does the government intend to take in the face of the shortcomings revealed in this new leak? In other words, what will be the structural measures, but also what are the investigations planned by the tax authorities, the police, the judiciary, the National Bank and the CTIF? Secondly, Minister, do you intend to put an end to bank secrecy in the light of this new case? We know that Belgium is one of the last countries to maintain a form of bank secrecy. Unfortunately, there is no mention in the government declaration of the end of bank secrecy. Do you intend to take action in this regard? Finally, according to the government's budget table, 600 million savings are set in FPS and other federal agencies. I will therefore ask the minister – I would have liked to ask him this question with his eyes in mind – if he can assure me that the staff of the FPS Finance will not decrease in the next four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u16	Mr Van Hees, your wish is fulfilled because the minister has just entered. It is you who are now far away, so it will be difficult for you to ask your question with your eyes in your eyes, but we can always try by video conferencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u17	So I'm asking my second question later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u18	Not at all, you can ask your question now. I will then give the floor to Mr Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u19	My second question concerns the role of the National Bank in combating money laundering. As part of these FinCEN files, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) was invited to this Finance Committee on 14 October. Journalists expressed their astonishment at some of the National Bank's anti-money laundering practices. In ten years, the National Bank – which follows 232 institutions on aspects of money laundering – has taken only seven decisions, all anonymous, namely four sanctions and three amicable agreements. How can we explain such a small number of decisions over such a long period of time? How can we also explain that all sanctions are anonymous, whereas the law of 22 February 1998 requires the National Bank to publish on its website the names of the sanctioned institutions? While exceptions are possible, in this case it is felt that the National Bank makes the exception a rule with no exceptions. Thirdly, the journalists received in the Finance Committee questioned whether the National Bank's distance to the bank account was sufficient. What do you think about this? Finally, between 10 and 30 staff members of the National Bank would be responsible for combating money laundering. What is the exact number of these people? Do you think that number is sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u20	I shall pass the floor to Mr Vanden Burre if he is present. I don't think he's here. I shall therefore pass the floor to Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u21	Madam President, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. Of course, I would also like to congratulate the Minister on his appointment, since it is the first time that we have met here. It will undoubtedly be a very good cooperation. We have had a very constructive exchange of views with the government over the last year, and with your attitude that will certainly not be different, we have no doubt of that for a second. While I am thanking people, I would also like to thank Mr Vanbesien for giving me the opportunity to ask questions on this subject. I think he has a similar question. Minister, we have had a good hearing here in Parliament on the FinCEN Files and the role that banks play in money laundering. On that occasion, we also agreed to continue to do so in this committee. This issue will therefore remain high on the agenda and we can undoubtedly be partners in it. After all, it is more interesting to find money in this way rather than by introducing new taxes. My question is specifically about the role of the National Bank in this. At the hearing, reference was made to an interview in Knack where someone from the National Bank said there was a peculiarity in the procedure. If there is any possibility of sanctions, the files will first be sent to the Sanctions Committee and then to the Management Committee. The Management Committee then makes a kind of differentiation and only afterwards it is followed up further. There is a lack of transparency in this particular procedure and there is also the question of whether this is a role for the Management Committee. You have already received a whole series of very specific questions here, which is good because we do not stick to political slogans. My specific question is how you feel about the role of the Management Committee. Shouldn't it be reviewed? The cases could then go immediately from the auditorate to the Sanctions Committee without having to pass a specific lock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u22	Madam President, Minister, as I said earlier, my second question concerns the role of the National Bank and the Financial Information Processing Cell. Colleagues have already referred to the hearing with Belgian journalists who participated in the investigation. As colleagues have already outlined the context, I shall immediately turn to my questions on the role of the National Bank and the CFI. Minister, the National Bank draws up risk profiles of our financial institutions, which must then be made known. On what criteria are those risk profiles established? Who has access to those established risk profiles? Since 2011, the National Bank's Administrative Commission has imposed four administrative fines on Belgian banks. Is there any follow-up within the National Bank to ensure that the deficiencies for which the fine was imposed no longer occur or may arise with the banks to whom that penalty was imposed? If so, is there any communication on this? I have a similar question about the three friendly settlements that were concluded by the Executive Committee of the National Bank. Reference has already been made to the so-called gatekeeper function of the Management Committee. What is the ratio legis that allows the Executive Committee of the National Bank to conclude friendly settlements in this way and thus avoids or avoids there will probably be well-founded reasons why the Sanctions Committee should be caught? International cooperation is very important in the fight against money laundering. In the international context, to fight together, some suggest the creation of a European financial information processing cell. What position do you and your fellow Minister of Justice, under whose jurisdiction that also applies, take on this issue? Has Belgium, as you know, already taken positions on this issue in European fora?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I have just asked my questions about the CFI and the banks. You were on your way then, but I assume my question did reach you. As announced, I now have an additional question about the National Bank. Some of my questions were already asked by my predecessors, I'm going to try not to repeat them. The National Bank indicated that in its role as bank supervisor in the field of anti-money laundering measures, it "detects significant shortcomings on a daily basis that show serious shortcomings in concrete implementation in the field." Can you shed some light on the nature of these daily deficiencies? Mr Bertels already referred to the risk profiles of money laundering. On what criteria are these set? In addition, the National Bank does not want to release how many of our financial institutions belong to which category. What's the reason not to release that? Mr Loones already referred to the important role of the Executive Committee of the National Bank and the great freedom it has as regards the initiation of an investigation and the follow-up to this investigation. It is the Management Committee that decides whether the investigation is not followed up, whether an amicable settlement is reached, or whether a referral is made to the Sanctions Committee. What is your assessment of this role of the Management Committee in that process? Don't you think there's a need for adjustments here? Decisions taken by the National Bank Sanctions Committee in money laundering files should be made publicly available on the Bank's website and maintained for at least five years, unless such disclosure jeopardises financial stability or an ongoing criminal investigation or threatens to cause disproportionate harm to the persons or institutions concerned. The four penalty decisions issued since 2014 have been subject to this exception. Do you think this is a correct way to deal with it? Are you seeking to amend or interpret this paragraph? Finally, the sanctions imposed on banks for violating money laundering legislation have been between EUR 50 000 and EUR 350 000 over the last five years. Are these - for these large banks anyway - very minimal sanctions, in your opinion, sufficient to create a deterrent effect? What are the criteria on the basis of which the amount of a given fine is determined, especially in view of the legal maximum amount that may be imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u24	Madam President, for the sake of coherence of the debate, I refer to the hearing we had with the journalists. There's something about that that hasn't happened to me. First of all, I want to make it clear that there is no doubt for me that it should not only be better, but that extra attention is also needed to monitor and prevent fraudulent banking transactions. We must be careful, however, that we do not do banking. The essence, as the journalists have confirmed, is that it is not so much about financial practices, but about organised crime - drugs, trafficking in human beings and cybercrime. I want to make the comparison with the port of Antwerp, where there are unfortunately too many drugs circulating. Customs and logistics players have the important task of preventing such tricks, but the essence is that we have to catch up with the criminal organisations themselves. The journalists also said that the need is not more legislation, but proper implementation of existing legislation. We need to step up our efforts against criminal organisations. They do not commit tax fraud, as they never file a tax return, but operate outside all systems. We must take action on this. That is why the question to you and the Minister of Justice is whether you are making additional funds available and whether you are going to take additional initiatives. Are you prepared to coordinate this sufficiently at European level? This fight is not fought at local or national level. Are you considering greater support for Europol, which is the spearhead in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u25	I would like to welcome you, Minister. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u26	Madam President, I am delighted to be here physically. I had read the MB very well and seen that telework is the rule. So I wanted to set an example, but the MB also states that there must be well-organised returns. This return is not that well organized, but I am very happy to be here with you today. As has just been said, I look forward very much to working together with all of you. There's a lot of work on the shelf. It is therefore important that we continue to engage in the debate and dialogue here, too, in order to meet our objectives. With regard to the many questions asked, I note that the FinCEN Files affect the feelings of many, not only of citizens and businesses, who each make a proportionate contribution to public finances, but of course also of all of you. The numerous questions you have raised on this subject bear witness to this. The subject itself is of course very technical and very broad, but allow me to give you as full an explanation as possible. As the supervisory authority of financial institutions, the National Bank may apply sanctions if it finds that a financial institution does not comply with or threatens to fail to comply with national or European legal or regulatory provisions, or if it fails to comply with the decisions of the National Bank. The National Bank also has a range of instruments to address such a situation, ranging from corrective or remedial measures, to the exercise of coercive measures or even resolution powers. The imposition of sanctions shall comply with the specific procedural rules. These are laid down in the organic law of the National Bank of 22 February 1998. In this context, the Management Committee of the National Bank has the power to decide that a procedure should be opened within the framework of its statutory supervisory mandate. For this purpose, the Management Committee shall instruct the auditor to carry out an investigation and to the advantage of the indications given. The Hearing Officer shall conduct the investigation completely independently. On the basis of the audit report of the auditor, the Management Committee of the National Bank decides which procedure will be followed, always on the basis of its statutory tasks and taking into account supranational risk assessments, which are published biennially by the European Commission, as well as the national risk assessment prepared by the Belgian coordination bodies as defined in the Anti-money laundering Act. On that basis, a dossier shall be referred to the Sanctions Committee. The Sanctions Committee has the exclusive power to impose any administrative fines following adversarial proceedings. The minimum and maximum amount of the fine is specified in several control laws. It may decide to publish its decisions on sanctions in a non-normative manner. The circumstances which it takes into account are laid down by law. These are cases in which either financial stability or ongoing criminal investigations or ongoing criminal proceedings are likely to be compromised or a disproportionate disadvantage is likely to be caused to the persons concerned or to the institutions to which they belong. These legal exceptions are the transposition of provisions of European regulations to which Belgium is bound. Both the exceptions to the nominative publication in principle and the assessment of it by the Sanctions Commission are therefore in line with European standards in this field. The information from the FinCEN files all the more shows the importance of international standards and regulations. As you know, this government will contribute constructively. I shall return to the Sanctions Committee, which consists of six members, including four leading magistrates. It is not for me to assess and comment on decisions taken by an independent and impartial body of an administrative authority, in this case the National Bank's Sanctions Committee. The architecture that the legislator has laid down essentially responds to three major concerns. Firstly, ensure the separation of the various functions of detection, investigation and decision-making. Secondly, to guarantee the independence and impartiality of research. Thirdly, ensure that the rights of defence of persons subject to proceedings imposing an administrative fine are respected. This architecture is not unique to the National Bank. It is found in other supervisory authorities such as FSMA. It ensures the proper management of the repressive function entrusted to the administrative authority. It is also part of the overall mission of the National Bank to maintain the stability of the banking and financial sector, thereby ensuring the protection of the public, savers and, more generally, to maintain the confidence of the public, savers and investors in all financial sectors and in financial market operators. The Management Committee of the National Bank therefore assesses, in the light of that objective, which approach is most appropriate to ensure, according to Anglo-Saxon terminology, the enforcement of the legislation in question. Finally, it should be noted that the fines referred to relate to events prior to the current legislation, namely the Act of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash. It is a general principle to apply the law at the time of the facts when determining the sanctions. The law of 11 January 1993 provided for an administrative fine of up to EUR 1 250 000. The current legislation provides for a fine of up to EUR 5 million or, if this is higher, 10% of the annual net turnover for the previous financial year. Thus, the explained architecture on the imposition of sanctions by the National Bank as a supervisor fits within international standards, defines the role of the two relevant bodies of the National Bank and takes into account the general mandate. The recent increase in maximum amounts will have a proportionate effect on the imposition of sanctions. I will, of course, follow its evolution and the hearings which this committee will continue to hold on this subject, so that, where appropriate, an evaluation can be carried out with knowledge of all the elements. With the information I now have, the model does not seem to be called into question. Finally, with regard to the follow-up of the FinCEN Files by my administration, only the high-level transaction data made available by the journalists are available to my administration. On this basis, it is not possible to assess the journalists' reports or to assess the tax risk of them. However, an annual risk analysis is carried out on the basis of the declaration 275 F submitted by Belgian companies, including banks, concerning payments to states that do not effectively and substantially report how they apply their standard in the field of information exchange, or to states without or with low taxation. Of course, checks have already been carried out on this basis. As explained by the journalists at last week's hearing, these are transactions between banks notified in the context of the fight against money laundering, for which my administration is not competent. Any failure on the part of Belgian banks must first be examined by the supervisory authorities such as the National Bank of Belgium, which, as I explained, can apply higher penalties since 2018. As soon as new tax elements are known, this can lead to an administrative investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u27	Minister, thank you. The debate is therefore open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u28	Is it not customary for the order of the questioners to be kept in the reply in the second round?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u29	Excuse me. I have to learn my role as president. We shall therefore respect the order of speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the partly technical but yet enlightening answer. You can count on proper cooperation with the sp.a. Group. Fair taxation is a stick horse for us. Every part of it isn't too much. That's what we're going for. From your competence in the fight against fraud, we are effectively competing with you to tackle fraud. We must also be attentive to money laundering, Mr Leysen. The investigative journalists have indeed warned about organised crime, but added that it will go dry if there are no money laundering opportunities. Criminals should be able to go somewhere with their money. We need to tackle both organised crime and money laundering so that the sources of funding for organised crime or international terrorism simply go dry and there are no longer any money laundering opportunities. As far as we're concerned, it's not an or-or story, it's an en-and-story.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u31	Mr Minister, thank you for your detailed technical explanation of the fine-meshed architecture at the supervisor's office. It was also necessary to frame the debate that is currently emerging. It is good that the journalists around the FinCEN Files have been heard here and that we will be able to hold further hearings on this subject, but there was also a need for an explanation of the powers of the National Bank on the basis of the organic law of 1998. Finally, I would like to warn against any problems caused by the Brexit's implementation, because the United Kingdom is playing a very important role in money laundering. This must be addressed at European level. This can also be discussed at subsequent committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u32	By leaking the FinCEN files, we are all being sucked back into the world of money laundering and international crime. As Mr Bertels says, it is an en-en-story. . We need to tackle not only crime, but also money laundering. Without money laundering, the organisations can't do anything with their money. I think we need to look at the whole process of anti-money laundering in our country in depth, both the role of the CFI and the role of the banks, of the public prosecutor and the National Bank. You say that the National Bank has followed the procedures as defined. There is no doubt that it has followed the procedures and complied with the rules. The question is whether the procedures should not be adapted in the light of the findings and the need for efficiency. Does it matter if the exception becomes the rule in the case of the nominating publication of the sanction, for example, not something about the system, the rule or the interpretation of the rule? That is why I think it is worth examining the process again in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers, while also noting a number of non-responses. I know there were many questions and there are still a lot of them, but perhaps we should not merge the questions that dealt with different subjects either. How can we explain that there are such a small number of National Bank sanctions? I did not really get an answer, except for a general answer that says the National Bank is following the rules. What is calling for is the lack of sanctions! You also did not answer about the distance between the National Bank and the banking world, the number of people working on this subject at the National Bank, or whether that is enough. I also asked you whether you are committing yourself, in the fight against tax fraud, to maintaining the staff of the FPS Finances, knowing that all previous governments have reduced the staff of the FPS Finances. Are you going to break this logic of decline? I have not had an answer to this question which seems central to me. As for the fact that the National Bank does not publish, when required by law, the names of the sanctioned banks, you tell us: "It is not for me to question the decisions of the National Bank to publish or not and if the law provides for exceptions, it is for the case to fall among those exceptions." I think it's a little easy to answer, minister. It is up to you to identify and correct any anomalies that exist. Zero penalty published, in my opinion, is an anomaly! I therefore invite you to go and dig into the reason for this lack of publication and to check whether the situation is systematically an exception. In summary, successive governments have been passive in combating fraud and money laundering for quite a long time. The legislative advances we have made are often international initiatives. It is the transposition of international rules and not government initiatives. I would like to remind you – and we are very much in the subject – that Belgium is still the last country with bank secrecy. Unfortunately, the government's statement does not intend to put an end to this bank secrecy, but I hope that you will put in place everything you need to consider eventually the end of this bank secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u34	Minister, I can confine myself to Mr Vanbesien's conclusion. The answer to our question to the journalists about their review of the legislation was that banking legislation is good, but that there is still work to be done on its application and monitoring. We need to ensure that it is done effectively and that the procedures are adapted so that what needs to be checked is checked. In this respect, I agree with the conclusion that the ambition in this area must certainly remain high.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u35	Mr Minister, the fight against tax fraud, which is also included in the coalition agreement, is important, to prove precisely the FinCEN Files. It is not so much about tax avoidance or evasion, but about money laundering. As colleagues have pointed out, money laundering is inextricably linked to criminal money. Studies also show that when money is laundered, it is often used to spread fake news or to support certain regimes. So there are plenty of reasons to optimise the fight against it, where possible. I am convinced that if the anti-fraud plan also includes an improvement in both the regulation and its transposition into the necessary directives and the role of regulators, the CFI and the public prosecutor, the fight against money laundering can be optimised. That is indeed an important piece of the puzzle in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been made clear here in particular that we must continue to focus on the issue and that we must continue to fully evaluate the existing procedures and their support. This aspect can also be addressed at the hearing with the National Bank. I have heard here, among other things, the question of whether the procedure is sufficiently effective. That question is also best asked to the National Bank, so that, on the basis of the answer, we can work together on how best to follow up on the issue. For the rest, I have heard your support for tackling this and continuing to fight. I hope that we will be able to pay sufficient attention to this in the action plan and implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone has its origins in the initially economically problematic situation in Limburg following the closure of Ford Genk. In the aftermath of that closure, Limburg was officially granted the status of dislocated zone in 2015, as you know. That decision involved, inter alia, a significant reduction in labour costs. Companies located in that zone receive, in particular, a 25% discount on the farm levy for new recruitments. All this has made it possible to make maximum use of job creation in Limburg. In addition, considerable efforts were also made in Limburg in the framework of the SALK plans. However, in the first few years after the implementation of the recognition measure, there were some changes to the formula. This has ensured, among other things, that the recognition did not reach cruising speed until 2018, a few years after the official recognition. Consequently, the potential, at least as the employers feel, is currently not fully exploited. Moreover, the current measure appears to be too little known to a number of SMEs. At present, it is too common that SMEs with expansion or investment plans often fail to apply the measure out of ignorance. That is one of the sore points to be seen in the womb of this new government. In addition, despite the recognition as a disturbed zone and despite the efforts under the SALK plans, the economy in Limburg remains particularly cyclically sensitive. The consequences of the corona crisis and the Brexit, not least in detail, have not yet reached their peak. Mr Minister, because of all these elements, I would like to interperate with you today. The Limburg Deputation has sent you and the Prime Minister an official letter asking for the extension of the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone or, as far as we are concerned, we are trying to be pragmatic at least to adapt it in the sense that Limburg can work on economic growth with the best possible support measures and can continue to invest in equipment and in people. This is crucial, not only for Limburg, but also for the rest of Flanders. In our opinion, the economic engine in Limburg must continue to operate. You can give an important injection with this government, of course in close cooperation with the Flemish Government. Mr Minister, can you tell us the figures relating to the exemption from company tax, job creation and others, about the impact on the economic change of Limburg since recognition as a dislocated zone? Will you investigate the official question of the Limburg Deputation? I hope so. By when do you expect results? What factors and conditions will you include in the decision to take Limburg and possibly other regions, because I understand that colleagues from the Kempen will also ask a question, even after the end of the current period, whether or not to continue to recognise them as a dislocated zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u38	Madam President, Minister, Mrs Ponthier has already outlined the context quite in detail. In spring 2015, my province was recognised as a dislocated zone. You know perfectly well what that means, Mrs Ponthier has also referred to it. The measure was a great success. He has already earned more than 5,000 jobs in our province, despite the fact that the measure may be too little known. This is also what Mrs Ponthier said. Take that to the future. However, we must all note that, unfortunately, the deadline for this aid has almost expired. It ends in mid 2021. This is not good news for our province, as the challenges remain very great. The corona crisis has brought little good to the economic revival in Limburg, as is of course the case in other places. Mrs Ponthier also referred to the letter of the Limburg delegate asking for the aid to be extended. Are you prepared to support this question? Your federal government agreement states that the extension of the measure 'decommissioned zones' will be studied. That is one of so many times that the word'study' occurs. This is not very concrete and shows little commitment. That's pretty vague. So you will not blame me for asking you here today when and in what way that study will be carried out and whether you are also considering adjustments to the measure as it is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u39	Madam President, the Kempen is another important region, Mrs Ponthier. Thanks to you, it has become more important than Limburg, but I take it you didn't mean that. In any case, thank you for the support for the Kempen. Minister, in 2014 Kempen acquired recognition as a dislocated zone following a combination of a number of collective redundancies. That was one of the conditions for that recognition. Flanders has currently delineated three of these areas. A zone is delimited around Genk. The people of Limburg are also here massively. The second zone is delimited around Turnhout, so the Kempen. The third zone is delimited around Zaventem and Vilvoorde. However, the advantage of this disrupted zone corresponds to an important wage cost saving of between 4% and 5%. This applies if additional employment is created, whether or not through acquisitions and/or investments. This has been achieved, including in the Kempen. We have been able to create more than 1,600 jobs in the Kempen by means of the system of dislocated zones. This appears to be a useful measure, also for a cyclically sensitive region such as the Kempen, which still has a lot of tailor-made industries. The construction sector is also very important to us. This measure is therefore important for the revival of our economy, even at a time when things are a little more difficult. I have two specific questions for the Minister. Minister, the government agreement states that the extension of the system of dislocated zones will be examined. The timing is 2021 because a number of things are coming to an end. By when do you expect the results of that study? How's it gonna go? Hopefully there will be a positive message for our people in the Kempen. Can you extend the recognition as a dislocated zone in the Kempen? Is that what you're planning on doing? Since we are Belgian People's Representatives, I also ask my question about the other potential zones that are eligible to be recognised as a dislocated zone. Can this measure be extended to other regions which are also affected by their economic existence? If so, can you give a hint from the shutter about which regions would be eligible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I am one of the following Kempeners in the list who would like to ask you a question about the dislocated areas of aid. The Competitiveness Pact provides for aid to employers in order to define an assisted area in cases of large-scale collective redundancies. There are currently three zones in Flanders and four in Wallonia. Some of these recognitions as support zones are about to expire. It is logical that we should be concerned and ask whether these measures can be extended and in what way this can be done. In the coalition agreement there is already a plan to further examine and, if necessary, extend the measure in the assisted areas. I would like to know more about this, Minister. Could you clarify the study on the measure on the dislocated zones? What exactly will be evaluated? When do you hope to be able to decide on the possible revision or renewal of this measure? Following on from Mr Bertels' question, what is your position on the granting of this measure in general and more specifically on the Kempen region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u41	Madam President, Minister, the previous speakers came from Limburg and the Kempen and I come from the Limburgse Kempen, the crossroads of both regions. It is therefore logical that I have similar questions about these important economic measures. I will not dwell on the recent economic history of our region here, but you know that we have seen black snow in Limburg. A major economic reconstruction was needed and our region is characterised by the large number of SMEs. I shall now turn to my questions. Are you planning to extend the system of dislocated zones for Limburg? How are you gonna do that? What can we expect? Apparently there is also a communication problem because not all companies are sufficiently aware of what they can do within this package. Are you going to take initiatives to remedy that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u42	Madam President, I congratulate you on your appointment. I wish you, Minister, a very fruitful legislature. Minister, what Limburgers and Kempenaars have in common is that they cross party political boundaries and stand up collectively for their region if their interests are compromised. I would therefore like to thank all Limburg and Kempian colleagues and all those who have sympathy for this. I would like to join the previous speakers. However, if people say that the coalition agreement is vague about that, then I must contradict it. The negotiators were very well aware that the time limit for the aid was at an end, and for this reason they specifically included in the agreement that they would look into it and see if the deadline could be extended. We must, of course, respect the European legislation in force. Minister, I got to know you a little better during a previous legislature and I know that you have a heart for Kempenaars. Undoubtedly you also have a heart for Limburgers. This government is committed to re-launching, maintaining existing employment and creating new ones in order to boost the employment rate in the course of the legislature, which will be necessary to improve budgetary figures. Where can support be provided in this country and can we make decisions within the expiry date?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. I am very glad that, on the basis of the questions, I now know where almost everyone comes from, as far as I could not figure it out on the basis of the dialect. The government is, of course, aware of the importance of the scheme for the destabilized zones. Following COVID-19 and the corona crisis, the situation today does not seem to me to be comparable to that of 2014, when our country was hit, as some have mentioned, by some large-scale, local collective redundancies. As a result, it was necessary to focus on local change. In addition, we have the scheme based on European State aid rules, the period of application of which expires on 31 December 2020. However, this period of application has recently been extended until 31 December 2023. So there's definitely an opening there. Those two elements ensure that I effectively intend to examine with the regions the extent to which it is appropriate to adapt this measure to the current economic situation, to use it more purposefully for the reconstruction of our economy and the relance, and on the other hand, as soon as a new regulation is known, I will ask my administration to analyse its impact. On the basis of this analysis, I will propose the necessary adjustments to my colleagues in the government. I am of course aware that the period of application of the current aid zones, in force in the Kempen and Limburg, will expire on 30 April 2021. As regards the period thereafter, the Competitiveness Pact Act provides, as well as the cooperation agreement of 3 April 2015, that the Flemish Region has the power to propose the demarcation of a new assisted area to the Minister responsible for Finance. It is therefore also up to the Flemish Region to undertake the exercise and, where appropriate, to propose new assisted areas within the contours of Articles 15 and 16 of the Competitiveness Pact Act. Mr Bertels, you asked that question explicitly. It is effective on the proposal of the region that I will have to make an assessment. Figures were also asked for. I'd be happy to answer that. Since the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone, the exemption from corporate withholding tax is EUR 8.5 million. As far as the creation of new jobs is concerned, this is a little more difficult. We only have estimates on the basis of forms submitted by the companies. Of these, the total number of new jobs is estimated at 5.342. A more detailed analysis of the economic effects of this assisted area will be carried out by the Flemish Region after the end of the period of application of this assisted area, in accordance with the cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u44	Mr. Secretary, I am not a Kempenson, I am a Kempen grandson. My grandfather lived in Pulle and my father had a business card that said "chicken grower at Pulle." I can fully follow the Minister's line: everything must be looked at in his own time frame and within European legislation. I know that there is a strong sense of Limburg, because we have seen this recently in Parliament. At that time, no one could escape the urge to do something nice for their own supporters and regional interests were at the forefront of the general interest. However, I would like to put it in a positive way. It is not up to us in Parliament to decide whether to do anything, that is up to the Minister. I would like to call on our friends in Limburg to work with a positive spirit and with confidence in the future. At the time, I was particularly disturbed by the fact that, in order to get money for urban policy, people had to build up a story with which people told me how bad things were. I prefer to be told that there are challenges and that people are going to invest. However, if one always resorts to the past and claims that it is a dislocated zone, then it bothers me as much of the Limburgers as of the Antwerpers, who had to claim that certain urban areas were completely disrupted. I have every confidence in the Minister and I believe that we should move on to the order of the day in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u45	Madam President, I believe that certain Members should have the floor for me in the replies. So I'll be so polite as to let them lead the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u46	I'm following the sequence of interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u47	Madam President, Minister, with your permission I am going to respond immediately to your lapsus. Mr Raskin will certainly not blame me for that. Mr Minister, I would like to thank you in the first instance. I will not go into the intervention of Mr Leysen, who was, with all due respect, foreign to the world. I'm not sure what label to stick on it. Mr Leysen, you say that we are going back to the past and that we must rely on the government. I do not know if you have been following things over the past few weeks, but my group has not given that confidence. That is why I see it as my task to control this government and, if necessary, to react proactively to matters that we consider important, not to matters of the past, but certainly to matters for the future. We have been clear in that. Thank you, Minister, for the figures you have provided. I understand that the impact as such cannot be expressed in detail. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the other figures. There could have been more. I hope that you have paid attention to my request to raise awareness of the measures that exist when they arrive. They're here right now. I hope you will be able to respond to that. You still have until April 2021 for the current measures, but also for the future measures. We have seen very clearly here, the figures also show that the benefits of the measures that have been taken have certainly been well proven. The Limburg region is a very important region in terms of logistics but certainly also in terms of economy, manufacturing industry and innovative economy. Limburg is also a very resilient region. This has been demonstrated several times in the past, and this will be evident now. As I have indicated, it is certainly advisable that you take into account all the previous recommendations and all the above mentioned facts. It is also recommended that you create all possible measures to ensure that Limburg remains the economically growing region it has always been. Madam President, Minister, that is why I have tabled a motion of recommendation here in committee as a final part of the discussion, but hopefully not as a final part of the whole debate. There is still a great deal to be said on the subject. We therefore take action with this motion for a recommendation, in which we ask you to take an example in the field of cooperation at this meeting, where the forces are united for the general purpose served, and that you also address, discuss and, where necessary, remedy the problem at the federal and regional level, but also at the European level. That is the only way forward. As I said, my recommendations are also included in my motion of recommendation. I hope that all those Members who are concerned with the economic growth of the regions that are struggling in terms of economic and logistics will also support this motion. In view of the speeches made by colleagues here, that seems logical to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u48	I shall first address my colleague from Open Vld. You say the discussion is bothering you. I can only conclude that you have not read the coalition agreement. It refers to the plans for the destabilized zones. From now on, you may also ignore the derogatory tone about the Limburg feeling. Well, that bothers me. Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. I also have a suspicion of where you came from. I have also heard that you must also take account of European legislation. However, I hear you say that there is an opening there, which offers a perspective. That's good news. I'll take that today. Secondly, you refer to the regions. They have their responsibilities to take. I will also work through my colleagues in Flanders to get the Flemish Government to make a decision in all wisdom. I am free to give you four important arguments as to why the extension of the measure for Limburg is necessary. In the previous period we have been a sort of testing ground. Since the regulatory adjustment in September 2018, the aid has become truly effective and only really profitable for SMEs and entrepreneurs. We have therefore used this measure optimally only 32 instead of 72 months. An important condition for recognition as a dislocated zone is also collective redundancies. That could even be scattered across different locations. Well, since the beginning of 2020, 3.350 Limburgers lost their job because of corona. I believe that this condition has already been met. Thirdly, the threat of a hard Brexit is real. One can't miss it. De KUL already calculated that this would mean a minimum job loss for Limburg of 3,300 jobs. Finally, in spite of the difficult times, 42 percent of Limburg's industry wants to continue to invest. The recognition as a dislocated zone prevents Limburg's competitiveness from being weakened again at a crucial moment, after we had been rehabilitated after the closure of Ford Genk. At least I'm looking forward to what's coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your positive cooperation. I feel that the phrase in the coalition agreement is not there by chance. We fought for this, or rather: we put it on the table and then it was accepted by our colleagues, thanks to our good argument, of course. We will work together to implement this positively, of course within the framework of European legislation. Minister, you can already warn your colleagues in the Flemish Government. There too, the Kempen, and probably Limburg too, are united across the party boundaries, argue for a correct and proper demarcation of the zones. We will all do this together, for the Kempen, and also for the Limburgers, for Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u50	Minister, I am indeed pleased to hear that consideration will be given to measures that allow SMEs to invest and create jobs, and that consideration will also be given to how this can be extended within existing regulations. We'll definitely pull this off with some people. However, if a region such as the Kempen or Limburg is doing well on the market, if SMEs do well there, it will benefit not only that region, but the whole country. This is not just a regional battle, but a battle that can benefit the entire economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u51	I think and hope that the Minister has understood the signal and that we can achieve results in this area in the near future. Mr Leysen, we do not complain very often, but you are from Antwerp and I would like to discuss with you the means that go to culture, sport and public transport, and compare them with our province. Many Antwerpers like to come to the open space in Limburg. I would also like to tell you how much resources are being provided to keep that open space in order. Then you would understand that we don't complain often. When I talk about the economic history of our region, I am not talking about Bokrich or the mines, but about recent economic blows that we have been talking about. In addition, all the tools are good to get out of there. We haven't been idle in Limburg. The industry in Limburg is doing its utmost. I can refer to incubators such as EnergyVille, Greenville and the Corda Campus. These are very nice projects, which prove that we are a very resilient region, which is capable of a lot, but we cannot do everything on our own. That is why we have today, together with a number of colleagues, stressed the importance of the measure concerning the destabilized zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u52	I give the floor to Mr Verherstraeten. I will also speak in the debate later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer and for the outstretched hand. The coalition agreement includes not only job retention, job creation, investment and relance, but also cooperation federalism. In this context, you have rightly pointed out that the Region also has powers in this regard. We are pleased that the federal government will contact the Flemish and other regional governments in order to allow these extensions. Madam President, our colleague Mr Lanjri, who is very committed to the Kempen and many other regions of our country, will, for this reason, co-sign the ordinary motion, which has already been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In my view, this actua debate shows very clearly that the debate on the dislocated zones is very important. The financial support of companies that create jobs and put people to work has an effect. Figures from Limburg prove that. You said correctly that the aid provided more than 5,300 additional jobs in Limburg. The measure therefore has an impact on the ground. In the current situation in Limburg there are still important points of interest. Corona has a more than average impact. There are still steps to be taken on the level of education. A possible Brexit can have a lot of economic consequences. These are all realistic contemporary data, not past facts, as some say, but hard facts today. It is therefore only natural to ask for the existing aid to be extended in the approved zones. That is why we have fought for it, as Mr Bertels said, because it is included in the coalition agreement that it will be studied together with Flanders and with the European level. That is why the Limburg-based permanent deputation has very clearly asked you to take action. The answer you have just given shows very great openness to look at this matter, to recognise that such support mechanisms can be very important for a zone. We assume that you will continue to do so, and we look forward to initiatives that can be taken in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u55	Madam President, my sympathy for Limburg and the Kempen is very great. I'd like to go there, by the way. I have family living in Kasterlee and with my colleague Marianne Verhaert I also defend the Kempen from the province of Antwerp. That is why it bothered me that we had to talk in the debate about dislocated regions, which unfortunately is the terminology used in a lot of legislation. I myself would prefer to talk about future-oriented regions, which refers to the dynamics. I am confident that the Minister will take all the signals from the various regions of this country to heart to give and support the right impetus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u56	Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u57	Madam President, in addition to and supplementing the motion for a recommendation which I have tabled, the concerns expressed by all here, including those of Mr Leysen, are largely met. So I do not see why this motion could in the long term not be supported by Mr Leysen and others who are concerned about all the regions, as explicitly stated in my motion for a resolution, and not just Limburg, which have been affected in a similar way. In that respect, I see no objection whatsoever.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u58	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, - having regard to the fact that the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone expires at the end of April 2021, - having regard to the fact that the coalition agreement provides for an examination of the possibility of extending the system of destabilized zones; - having regard to the letter of the Limburg Deputation addressed to Prime Minister Alexander De Croo and Minister of Finance Vincent Van Peteghem in order to proceed as quickly as possible with an extension of the period in which Limburg is regarded as a disturbed zone; - having regard to the fact that the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone resulted in more than 5000 jobs, the measure did not reach speed until three years later (2018) after a series of adjustments and thus the full potential of the measure has not yet been exploited; - whereas despite the special status and despite all efforts under the SALK plans, the economy in Limburg remains particularly cyclically sensitive, the corona crisis has not contributed to a constant economic boom and the effects of the Brexit will also be hard to feel in Limburg; - taking into account the fact that since March 2020 the proportion of jobseekers has increased significantly in Limburg and this can be considered as a 'collective dismissal'; - taking into account that it is crucial that economic growth is the only solution to get out of the crisis and should therefore continue to invest in equipment and in people; - taking into account the fact that the current measure is too little known to SMEs and therefore SMEs with expansion or investment plans often do not apply the measure out of ignorance; asks the government - in close consultation with the Flemish Government, an extension of the current measure or, if necessary, the implementation of new tailor-made measures to meet the needs of the economy in Limburg and other regions equally affected; - in close consultation with employers' organisations and other competent ministers, greater commitment to the publication of the current recognition and possible future measures." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, - in view of the fact that the recognition of Limburg as an area in difficulty will expire at the end of April 2021; - in view of the fact that it has been provided for in the Government's agreement that it will be examined whether the system of areas in difficulty can be extended; - having regard to the letter sent by the Permanent Delegation of Limburg to Prime Minister Alexander De Croo and Minister of Finance Vincent Van Peteghem in which she asked them to extend as soon as possible the period during which Limburg was considered to be an area in difficulty; - in view of the fact that the recognition of Limburg as an area in difficulty has led to the creation of more than 5000 jobs, that this measure, after a series of adaptations, has reached its cruising speed only three years later (in 2018) and that therefore the full potential of this measure has not yet been reached; - Whereas, despite the special status and despite all the efforts made under the SALK plans, the economy of Limburg remains very sensitive to the economic situation, that the coronavirus crisis did not contribute to a steady cyclical increase and that the effects of Brexit will have a very severe impact on Limburg; - in view of the fact that since March 2020 the number of jobseekers has increased very sharply in Limburg and that this very marked increase can be considered as a ‘collective release'; - in view of the crucial importance of economic growth as the only way out of the crisis and the need to continue investing in equipment and personnel; - in view of the fact that SMEs are too little aware of the current measure and that, therefore, it is not uncommon for SMEs with expansion or investment projects not to apply this measure because of ignorance; demands that the government - decides, in close consultation with the Flemish Government, to extend the current measure or, where appropriate, to take new appropriate support measures to meet the needs of the economy in Limburg and other similarly affected regions; - invests more to raise awareness of the current recognition of Limburg as an area in difficulty and other measures that may be taken in the future, in close consultation with employers' organisations and other competent ministers." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Christian Leysen. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Mr. Christian Leysen. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close this debate by saying that I like Limburg very much. I feel, through your interventions, the usual tensions of those who defend their region. It's normal, I understand that. I am all the more sensitive because within a few weeks I will marry a Limburger. Minister, he is a Limburger who speaks several languages perfectly, without any accent. It's normal, he's a great musician. This concludes our debate on Limburg and Campina.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u59	Minister, the National Bank has made a study on the cost of asylum and migration. I have questioned your predecessor on several occasions in committee. As the government agreement announces that you want to make a very strong commitment to comprehensive and transparent reporting of, among other things, asylum and migration, which attracted my attention, I assume that you will also be able to inform transparently about the costs of migration. We have been advocating such a study since the last legitimate government. Your predecessor replied to my question in January that this study would come before the summer and in April it still sounded the same. At the end of June, I asked that question again, and then suddenly there was a delay and the study would not be available until September. It is now almost November, so I would like to hear from you when the promised study on the cost of asylum and migration of the National Bank is finally delivered. I hope that the study, as it is so long overdue, will take all aspects into account and that it will focus not only on labour migration, but also, for example, on the major costs of the imbalance between active and passive migration. Can you clarify these two points?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u60	Minister, the publication of the study on the economic impact of migration in Belgium has been postponed several times. That study was originally ordered in 2018 by your predecessor, Minister of Finance Johan Van Overtveldt, and had to make a division by region and by migration channel, such as the canal of family reunification. The focus would be on migrants from outside the European Union. So my first question is whether that focus of that comprehensive study and course was retained. The timeline was already outlined by colleague Van Camp. The original study was scheduled for April 2019. However, that deadline was not met. The study was silently lifted over the elections and the then Minister of Finance, Alexander De Croo, just before the elections, spoke the winged words that the government would not instrumentalize the National Bank before the elections. The elections have been over for a long time now, but the De Croo cabinet postponed the study until the summer of 2020, but also that deadline was not met. According to the latest media reports, the publication would be postponed until autumn. Meanwhile it's been a while autumn, hence my second question. When will this study finally be published? Finally, the Dutch Central Planning Bureau has already made a study on the cost of migration. The conclusion was tough. Migrants of any age at entry appear to be a burden on public finances. The researchers claim that a migrant arriving in the Netherlands at the age of 25 costs the state about 43.000 euros in total, while a Dutch citizen earns 76.000 euros. In a more recent report for the Norwegian government a similar conclusion was reached. Of course, these studies are not easily extrapolable to Belgium, but it is not reassuring that the main reason for the high costs of migration in the Dutch study refers to the poor labour market position of people with a migration background. These problems are, after all, much greater in our country. Eurostat figures show that only 49.1% of people born outside the EU but living in our country are at work. The same problem arises for second and third generation migrants. Minister, will the total negative contribution of non-Western migrants to public finances be calculated in detail, as in the Dutch study? In other words, are all aspects of the cost, such as health care, housing, education, benefits and general public expenditure, such as security, justice and care, included in the cost calculation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u61	Thank you for your questions. The National Bank of Belgium's analysis of the economic impact of immigration in Belgium, focusing on public finances and the labour market, will be published in November. That is still in autumn, Mr Vermeersch, as you asked. The study will cover all the most common channels of migration, such as family reunification, labour migration, international protection and regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for giving up your time. You are talking about November. First there was April, then the summer and then September and now it is November. I'm very curious. The focus would be on labour migration, but at the same time you clarify that the study deals with all forms of migration, including passive forms, such as family reunification and regularisation. I am in favour of that. You didn't say yes to all the other questions. For example, I asked whether all costs would be mapped out, inter alia, in relation to reception. I fear that we will not find out until November, when that study is finally published. I repeat that the population is entitled to these figures. I do not understand why the study is so long overdue, especially given that it is limited data that we have at our disposal. Once again, I hope, since we have had to wait so long for it, that it will be a very full study, which correctly identifies all aspects and informs the population correctly about the costs of asylum and migration, with an emphasis on costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u63	Minister, your answer is very brief. I hope it is not a harbinger of what we will often see here in committee. November 2020 is of course a lot later than April 2019, which was originally promised. I agree with my colleague's reply and add the following. The cost of migration is a combination of cost items such as education, training, housing and social security. A comprehensive study of the cost of migration is missing today. We can only refer to outdated international studies, the conclusions of which are, on the one hand, very negative, as expected, but, on the other hand, difficult to move to Belgium. The conclusions may be even more negative as half of the migrants are unemployed in this country. The migration debate is the most important debate of the current political period. That debate needs to be brought to an end as a matter of urgency. I hope that we can have that debate on the basis of facts and figures. You and your services are ultimately responsible for this. We will continue to remind you of your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u64	Madam President, first of all I would like to wish you every success in your new mission. I will do the same for Mr. Minister. As everyone began today by defending their region, I come from the south of the province of Luxembourg, Minister. I'm a luxuriantophone. I understand French and Dutch, but I'm a luxury-speaker. That's my mother tongue. My municipality is 20 kilometres from Luxembourg and 60% of the working population of my municipality, like neighbouring municipalities, works in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This to tell you the interest I have in it. Every time you see me in this committee, there is a problem or problems at border level. Minister, Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg signed amicable agreements in May, June and August 2020 to adapt the tax convention that binds our two countries during a period of coronavirus. This agreement concerns Article 15(1) of the Convention. This paragraph applies to persons who are taxable in the territory of which they are active. However, there is a need to clarify the situation. At first, like everyone else, I was sure that all borderers, regardless of their status, would benefit from this agreement. And I found it normal. I was surprised when the administration told us that some people unfortunately did not have access to this facility under telework. Minister, I'm going to ask you my first question, but that's a suggestion. Does this agreement concern all employees posted to a Luxembourg company? I would like to say to you: I am sure that this agreement concerns all employees posted to a Luxembourg company. We must be clear, ladies and gentlemen. Are managers or administrators dedicated to day-to-day management in any way affected by Article 15, paragraph 1, and are they therefore covered by the VOCID agreements? If this is not the case, will you discuss again and adapt the agreement so that all these categories of workers as well as the self-employed are also protected by the VOCID agreement? If not, what are your arguments for distinguishing the right of employees from that of other categories of workers when it concerns the protection of their health? Let us be clear that all these telework measures have nevertheless been taken so that the coronavirus does not spread too much in our regions. I look forward to your positive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u65	Madam President, congratulations on your new appointment and on your wedding plans. I would like to join Mr Arens in congratulating the new minister to whom I am also addressing a question concerning people from my southern part of the province of Luxembourg. Mr Minister, the situation of many Belgian border workers in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has never been so uncertain. As a reminder, outside of times of crisis, frontier workers can legally take up to 24 days of telework per year by remaining taxed in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In the context of the VOCID-19 crisis, the rules were fortunately relaxed: telework was seen as a case of force majeure. The days of telework of Belgian frontier workers are therefore not included in the quota for the 24 annual days. This case of force majeure was extended until 31 December 2020. However, according to information provided by the Belgian tax administration and reported by the Luxembourg press, the agreement extended until 31 December excludes a number of workers, such as the self-employed or foreign executives. This is a discriminatory situation for many of our borderers, mainly those living in the province of Luxembourg and visiting the Grand Duchy every day. Mr Minister, do you confirm that the agreement concerns all Belgian border workers working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? If not, can you give me a precise list of the workers excluded from this agreement? On what basis was this distinction made? While the government - and rightly so - advocates telework following the resurgence of the VOCID-19 epidemic, do you not think that it would be appropriate to improve this agreement by taking into account, if necessary, all Belgian frontier workers working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, while extending the deadline of 31 December 2020? In my view, the health and safety of our frontier workers is at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u66	Minister, the advantage of asking the question to three is that you will have a truly complete and precise question, since each of you will have a complementary element. As my colleagues have said, if the agreements are clear at the level of employees in the strict sense, there are still some areas of shadow. In Luxembourg, at the same time, many employees have managerial or day-to-day management mandates. Are they covered by the VOCID-19 agreements and the encouragement of telework? Company managers with independent status do not appear to have been targeted. The question is whether they are or not, and if not, how can we ensure that they are? What is the situation of self-employed professionals (doctors, lawyers, architects, etc.) who must have a fixed business base in order to benefit from taxation in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? Indeed, if they have teleworked during the months that have just passed on the basis of the recommendations that had been made fairly publicly and fairly broadly, without much precision in any case at the press level, what will be their fate? Finally, are the other independents, as mentioned on the administration's website (consultants, for example) also covered by teleworking agreements? The recommendation of teleworking both in Belgium and in the Grand Duchy is again the rule, although the Grand Ducal Parliament has just decided that it was not a right but an agreement to be concluded with the employer. Could you clarify the scope of this to avoid entrapment of workers who are currently working without knowing whether they will not be taxed next year at the time of taxation? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u67	I do not know the Luxembourg dialect, but I am very happy to know now which province you all come from. Thank you! The agreement signed on 19 May 2020 concerns only workers covered by the Belgian-Luxembourg double taxation agreement, i.e. persons working under an employment contract. Belgium has concluded almost identical agreements with Germany, the Netherlands and France. These agreements also apply only to employees. Furthermore, Luxembourg has concluded such agreements with Germany and France. The VOCID-19 agreement does not concern all employees posted to a Luxembourg company. It concerns only seconded employees who are covered by the Belgian-Luxembourg double taxation agreement, i.e. persons who work under an employment contract. Not all persons whose income is not covered by the double taxation agreement can invoke this agreement. These include self-employed entrepreneurs, professional practitioners, business managers, civil servants and posted workers (e.g. workers posted for a short period of time, less than 183 days, whose remuneration is paid by a Belgian employer, etc.).). This is mainly due to the fact that different tax power rules apply to each category of income. In addition, certain categories of persons are not in the same situation as employees because they do not work in a subordination relationship. Company managers are not covered by the VOCID-19 agreement. According to the text of the VOCID-19 agreement itself, the intention of the Belgian and Luxembourg authorities was to limit the scope of the agreement to wages, salaries and other remuneration received in respect of an employed person. The tax administration has issued a circular in the form of a Frequently Asked Questions, which deals in particular with the situation of posted workers and foreign executives, in the light of the VOCID-19 agreement concluded with Luxembourg. In view of all these elements, there is no need to extend the scope of the Agreement. The extension of the agreement has not yet been taken into account. Finally, it is absolutely not about protecting one's health and abandoning the other. The issue is essentially fiscal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u68	Minister, thank you for that answer. If gefält net sea gaz. She doesn't totally fit me. It is in Luxembourg, of course. I really think that we are still in a situation where this problem was discovered during the seventh month of application of this measure. There is administration, there is politics, and I really ask you, as a policy, as Minister of Finance, to act and extend this measure to all frontier workers. This seems to me to be very important, because I continue to say that we cannot change what everyone thought was acquired from the sixth or seventh month of application. That's where I think there's a real problem. Thank you for the progress you are going to make on this issue in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u69	Minister, I wanted to thank you for the quality of your answer. Together with my colleagues, we were questioning the extent of this measure to frontier workers. This is the first time we have received such tangible details on this issue. I wanted to stress that. My colleagues and I will circulate the information. Before I respond to your answer, I will be aware of the circular you mentioned, so that I can continue to investigate the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u70	Mr Minister, there was no need for discussion for posted workers since, being posted to work in the neighbouring state, it is normal that they should not be subject to the same rules. On the other hand, in the case of managers enjoying the status of employee at the same time, there is a question of interpretation. It is important to see what instructions you will give to your services for the year 2021, during which the tax controls of the persons concerned will take place. Of course, we should not come to an end about the concepts of taxation and health. The tax aspect obviously exists, but the telework recommendations apply to all workers, whether employed or not. Therefore, with regard to the control of the tax file of workers forced to come to work in Belgium - whereas they are usually in the Grand Duchy - it will be necessary to give instructions to the administration so that it does not engage in a witch hunt, as has happened at times, by asking for several evidence of a presence in the Grand Duchy. If at some point the borders have been almost closed and the self-employed have not been able to cross them because, as company managers, they could not, the administration will have to be extremely attentive to this fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u71	Minister, my first question may seem dated, but it is not. It concerns the regular meeting of the eurogroup and the informal meeting of EU Finance Ministers. These meetings took place in Berlin on 11-12 September 2020. The Belgian representative, who replaced the then Minister De Croo, had an exchange of views on the current economic situation in the euro area, with emphasis on the changes to the European budget for 2020 and the draft budget for 2021. A thematic debate would also be held on facilitating the implementation of reforms, maximising their impact and ensuring an efficient use of public funds in the context of recovery across Europe. We are talking about the European policy response in the context of the COOVID-19 situation. The Eurogroup would also take stock of ongoing work on the Banking Union. There was also a session on the EU's own resources and on the need for an appropriate fiscal architecture in the 21st century, including further steps to achieve fair and effective taxation. Was it also about the possible creation of a bad bank for bad loans? Perhaps it was also about the European budgetary rules that would be in a proverbial lockdown next year, and thus show flexibility. In addition, it was probably also about the bank Brussels which is due to start on 1 January. Then, of course, we are talking about the European recovery funds. Could you give me a little more explanation for that meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u72	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, the Eurogroup discussed the framework within which structural reforms are being implemented in Berlin. Wide consultation and communication were central to this. The roll-out of the recovery and resistance fund, called Recovery and Resilience Facility, will come back to this. The Eurogroup held a brief discussion on the current flexibility of budgetary rules when they are reviewed. Unanimously, under the current circumstances, where COOVID-19 still has a very negative impact on growth, it is too early to reverse the flexibility of these rules. You are also aware that this would be detrimental to our economic recovery. Belgium has always been in favour of sufficient flexibility, especially in terms of productive investment, because of course they provide more sustainable growth and jobs. The eurogroup, including the 27 Member States, discussed the state of play of the Banking Union, in particular the amended ESM Treaty and the early introduction of the common safety net. The meeting stated that the necessary progress should be made by November. On strengthening the Banking Union, a work programme was adopted to make progress on outstanding issues such as the DGS, crisis management, enhanced crossborder integration and the issue of assigning a risk weight to government bonds. A final report on this will be submitted by April 2021. The informal Ecofin Council discussed the economic situation on the basis of Eurostat and ECB data. This included the use of the recovery fund, on which the EU agreed in July, and the possibility of creating new own resources. Belgium is open to this and will also play a constructive part in this. Finally, the Ecofin Council addressed the issue of fair and effective taxation, with due regard for the discussions on this issue within the OECD. Finally, the impact of digitalisation on financial markets was discussed. Member States consider that the EU should play a prominent role in setting standards. In the context of the implementation of the European Commission's digital strategy, the Ecofin Council will also return to this. So much for a brief summary of what was discussed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. In fact, I think it would be useful to ask questions about such informal and official Ecofin meetings. We also have a committee on European affairs in the Chamber. It seems useful to me that you should be there in the coming months, and I hope for you to report for years on the financial aspects of European policy. I think that we will have to follow closely the implementation of the recovery fund, where massive loans are to be made, and I think that we will have to follow closely the Brussels Bank in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u74	Mr Minister, this is a dossier that everyone seems to have forgotten, but I would like to get an update on the file of the Municipal Holding. Last year, the Municipal Holding made a profit of 2.2 million euros. This is evident from the annual accounts. Of course, there is an enormous negative own funds of almost EUR 969 million. The flashing lights are still on, of course, even with the federal government. The Municipal Holding has been in liquidation since the end of 2011. More than 90% of the assets have already been sold. The equity and bond portfolio is almost completely out of hand, as is most equity and debt. The liquidators decided at the end of last year that there was sufficient margin to pay an advance on the distribution of the remaining asset to Belfius, the main creditor of the Municipal Holding. That amount is to be considered as an advance on the amount to which Belfius is entitled in connection with the distribution plan to be drawn up by the liquidators at the end of the liquidation procedure. At the end of 2011, there was a compromise proposal on the sharing of costs between Belgian policy levels, with the federal government of course involved. Her part of the guarantee, EUR 132.5 million, was committed in it, to be settled when the liquidation will be complete. The liquidation college hopes to complete the sale of the last assets by the end of next year. The closure of the liquidation largely depends on a number of ongoing judicial proceedings. The question is, of course, what gap will remain when the liquidation is concluded, Minister. That is, of course, important for Belfius. In this case, there is therefore a direct and indirect involvement of the federal government through Belfius. Direct involvement concerns the guarantee of EUR 132.5 million. Mr Minister, can you explain the state of play? I hope I didn't sell too much bullshit. In that case, you can correct me. What impact can this dossier have in the coming years in light of ongoing federal government engagements?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u75	I am not going to comment on the matters you have said, but I will try to give the best possible answer to your question. The liquidation of the municipal holding company has, of course, not yet been completed. The Belgian State's possible commitment will be examined at the end of the legal proceedings. Various elements are important here. I can't give you any additional information right now. You also refer to a final settlement by the end of next year, as well as to the outcome of pending disputes. A state of play will also be possible from the moment the municipal holding company's assets are fully recovered and the settlement of outstanding disputes will be terminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u76	Minister, I understand the tonality of your answer. We're gonna have to wait for the final settlement. I assume that the amount of EUR 132.5 million is still valid and that this is correct for the guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u77	Madam President, Minister, Europe and the British have been trying for four years to reach a good deal after the Brexit referendum. This is a rather difficult process, a negotiation technique is used, including threats with legal procedures. It shows that a hard Brexit is still not averted. From 1 January, not for long, the transition period is over and the United Kingdom becomes de facto our first trading partner. Our country, Flanders in the lead, needs a trade agreement and stability. Whatever form of Brexit comes, a hard or a softer one, it will have a strong impact on the various aspects of our public finances including the budget. I would like to ask you some specific questions about this. Our country has had four years to prepare for any possible scenario. Have you already calculated the implications of a hard Brexit on Belgian public finances and budget for this year and the following years? What concrete effects are expected on Flemish and Belgian prosperity, companies and employment? How many companies, according to your estimate, will be damaged by a hard Brexit? Can you also express the damage in nominal terms, in terms of amounts or percentage of GDP? How will the European Brexit Fund of EUR 5 billion be distributed? What keys will Belgium use to distribute these funds among the different entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u78	Mr Van der Donkt, of course we are following this very important dossier closely, but as the negotiations are still ongoing we do not yet know what scenario we are going to come up with. Therefore, it is not yet possible to correctly assess the impact of Brexit on the budget, prosperity, businesses and employment. Much research has already been done on this and the federal government, in close cooperation with the Länder, is doing everything possible to limit the impact of the Brexit on any scenario. You rightly refer to the importance of the European Brexit Adjustment Reserve. In July, the European Council decided that it would amount to EUR 5 billion. The European Commission will present a proposal in November on the precise parameters and modalities for the distribution of these funds within the European Union. Here, too, there is, of course, close cooperation with the Länder in order to ensure that a maximum share is flowing to our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Together with many Flemings and Belgians, I do hope that the government will continue to take this seriously and that some scenarios are already on the table. I can understand, however, that you cannot anticipate that. With regard to the Brexit Fund, you will also be aware of the position of your colleague from the Flemish Government, who claims 3 billion. I hope that this will also be the directive used in the negotiations to be conducted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u80	Mr Van der Donkt, you are mixing two things, namely the Brexit Fund with the Next Generation or the Resilience and Recovery Fund. From the latter we will indeed get EUR 5 million. The Flemish government will be asking about 2.4 billion euros the figure 3 billion is what on the high side is asking. The EUR 5 billion currently in the Brexit Fund has not yet been distributed. It would be nice, but we won't get 3 billion from the Brexit Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u81	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u82	Mr Minister, I have a question about tax-on-web, which was opened for the tax-on-web declarations of non-residents in our country. For the 2019 revenue year, managers can submit the declarations for their clients living in the neighbouring countries and working in Belgium. Now it turns out that there are some problems with this electronic tool, which makes the work of the mandatators more difficult. The system does not seem to accept the partner of the married or legally cohabiting frontier worker, which makes it impossible to make a correct declaration. Moreover, the declaration software would not be ready for use. For example, no copy of the declaration note of the declaration made can be displayed or printed. No simulation calculation can be made either. The managers have until 3 December 2020 to submit the declarations for their clients. It's gonna be hard to reach the deadline. Mr Minister, how are the managers to file the tax return in a correct and valid manner within the legal deadline for frontier workers who do not live in our country and who are married or legally cohabiting? Why can't an electronic copy of the declaration be stored or printed? How come no simulation calculation can be made? In the event of a dispute, it is important to have proof. Are you prepared to extend the deadline for reporting by the period necessary to resolve the above problems? Will your services communicate in good time when the problems have been solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u83	The administration has indeed discovered an error in charging the married persons in our application Tax-on-web for non-residents. Technical services are currently making the necessary corrections. These corrections will soon be completed so that access to Tax-on-web for non-residents will also be possible for married or legally resident persons. However, in some cases, even after this error has been corrected, a common declaration may still not be lodged. The file is incomplete because the administration has no evidence of marriage or legal cohabitation in its possession. In this case, the taxable person or the agent must contact the competent valuation firm and provide an official proof of marriage or legal cohabitation. On the basis of this document, the administration can then modify the data in the database and allow a common declaration in Tax-on-web. Indeed, just after the opening date of Tax-on-web, it was not possible to store or print a copy of the declaration. This problem has been resolved since 7 October 2020 and it is now possible to do so again. To date, the administration has no knowledge of any problems with the calculation tool in Tax-on-web for the declaration of non-residents. If you know of specific cases, you can always deliver them to me. That way I can have my services check it out. The administration will of course do everything in its power to resolve the technical problems of the application in the near future, so that a general postponement of the submission date for the GNI declaration is currently not appropriate. As soon as detailed information is available on the solution of the technical problems, this will of course also be communicated on the FPS Finance website.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply that the corrections will be completed. I hope that this will be the case as soon as possible and that the mandaters will not be in short supply of time. I assume that we can bring this back to committee and that an extension can still be discussed there. The problem with the copy is solved. That's good, too. I don't think I got an answer about the simulation. I believe that there is still a little work to be done on the legal cohabitants and the married. In fact, you are now turning the burden of proof to the person in question who works here but who does not live here. I think it would be more pleasant and more attractive to ask for information from the FPS Finance to the taxpayer. I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that our country is attractive to frontier workers. The burden of proof would thus be less complicated. A demand for intelligence is very simple, and appears less aggressive. Maybe that's a tip for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u85	Minister, I have a brief question. On 28 September 2020, the European Commission published a Communication on an Action Plan to strengthen the Customs Union. The plan lays down, inter alia, risk management measures and the fight against customs fraud in e-commerce. It also provides for a one-stop shop for the simplification of customs formalities, which is important for a country such as Belgium, as well as for the roll-out of modern customs equipment. Firstly, Minister, how is Belgium preparing for this? What means are we going to use for this? Secondly, the communication rightly pays particular attention to e-commerce. The Action Plan also pays particular attention to e-commerce. Where do you stand with the introduction of the VAT package on e-commerce, which is due to be introduced on 1 July 2021, and which, as you undoubtedly know, can have an important budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u86	Madam President, Minister, Commissioner Gentiloni announced at the end of September 2020 that the Customs Union is in need of modernisation and strengthening after 50 years. An EU action plan has been launched in recent days. I will list a number of things, without repeating too much. The European Commission wants an integrated European approach to customs risk management, which supports effective controls by Member States. It wants to make customs regulations smarter and make them work better for Member States, citizens and legitimate businesses. I also read that the Action Plan focuses on the effects of e-commerce on the collection of customs duties and that a new risk management strategy would be rolled out in 2021. The system of international and common administrative cooperation will also be reviewed. Even a new EU-China agreement on the strategic framework for customs cooperation for the period 2021-2024 is under discussion. In what sense will the EU Action Plan be applied in Belgium? Mr President, can you explain the procedures and actions that will be put in place and undertaken over the coming months and years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u87	In the Customs Action Plan, the European Commission puts forward 17 actions which the Commission intends to work with Member States during this legislative period, with the aim of bringing the Customs Union to a next level. My customs administration is actively participating and will continue to participate actively in the various project groups at Commission level which will ensure the operationalisation of the Customs Action Plan by sending a strong delegation and by adopting a proactive attitude at expert level. For most of the Action Lines, the Action Plan is a continuation of the current work, both at European and national level. For example, there has been a risk management strategy in the field of risk management measures since the previous period. My customs administration also plays an active role in the framework of the Risk Management Framework through its participation in the European working groups. Datamining is a priority and the customs administration will therefore seek an active role within the Joint Analytics Capabilities Project of the European Commission. The customs administration is also committed to innovation, in particular the project for 100 % scanning of risk containers, and is thus working on the development of artificial intelligence for scanning image analysis. So much for my very brief summary of what's going on. As you can see, we are taking very proactive and active part in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u88	Mr Minister, a number of members of this committee have visited the customs facilities in Antwerp, including the scanning capacity, as well as the customs facilities at Bierset airport. It is important that we actively participate in the Customs Union next level, as you have mentioned. We certainly have to do that. We must also prepare ourselves for this. But I didn't hear you say anything about VAT on e-commerce. I assume that we will be ready to implement it in good time. You also know that it should have an additional positive budgetary impact on our finances. We certainly shouldn't miss them. I assume you will now say that we will be ready, as your colleague has just whispered to you, or so I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for the short answer. I am naturally pleased that there is proactivity in this area and that Belgian customs services are closely involved in operationalisation. In concrete terms, this concerns the new analysis centre responsible for data collection, analysis and data sharing. You also referred to the project on 100 % scanning in Antwerp. My colleague, Mr Vermeersch, has already asked your predecessor about this. It is, of course, a long-term work in progress and we hope that there will soon be more effectiveness on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u90	It is good that the committee has already been on the ground, and I hope to be able to do so as a minister myself. There is sufficient knowledge and expertise there, and then one can immediately hear what is alive and what is necessary. Mr Bertels, your comment on fraud involving customs duties in e-commerce will of course also be taken into account. This point will be taken into account in the Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u92	Minister, the European Finance Ministers recently decided to take the Cayman Islands and Oman off the blacklist of tax havens. The Cayman Islands ended up on the European list earlier this year, but according to the European Union, the British overseas region has now implemented the necessary fiscal reforms. The Cayman Islands were the first British overseas territory to be blacklisted in February after the United Kingdom had left the European Union. Since the Cayman Islands have amended their legislative framework for collective investment funds, they are now being withdrawn from the list. Is that right? Why was that decision made? Was the approximation of legislation sufficient? What was Belgium's position during the debate at the European level? Is Belgium not in favour of stricter criteria for removing the entry on the black list of tax havens? That list of tax havens has come to the European level for a reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u93	Minister, the blacklist was first drawn up in December 2017 for countries and territories outside the European Union. These are countries and regions where the authorities hardly levy corporate tax, are not transparent and are unwilling to fight against tax avoidance. On 6 October 2020, EU Finance Ministers added the Caribbean Islands of Anguilla and Barbados to the blacklist of tax havens. The Cayman Islands and Oman were removed from the list. The list is apparently revised twice a year. The so-called country-specific recommendations of the European Commission call for tax reforms every year. EU Commissioner Gentiloni, responsible for taxation, is ready to examine whether EU countries can be more formally addressed to their tax behaviour and look for ways to screen national tax policies for aggressive planning and tax avoidance. It is even assumed that the CSRs will play a role in assessing State aid from the European Recovery Fund. What the hell does that have to do with anything, will you say? This clearly shows an evolution towards a greater role for the European CSRs in the distribution of the European Recovery Fund and thus, in actual fact, in tax collection. What was Belgium's position over the Cayman Islands, which apparently is a different direction than the one Gentiloni wants to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u94	Madam President, Minister, the European Commission announced a few days ago that the Cayman Islands were being removed from the blacklist of tax havens, a well-known list of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions around the world. The Cayman Islands had joined this unenviable list in February 2020 after the Commission found that it had not put in place appropriate measures in the area of collective investment instruments. You will of course understand the astonishment of those who are committed to fighting international tax fraud. Minister, could you explain to us the reasons the Commission has put forward for removing these islands from the blacklist? This withdrawal seems particularly surprising when we know the reputation of the Cayman Islands. It is difficult to deny that the lack of transparency and the opacity of its offshore financial systems make it one of the most famous tax havens in the world. Is it not, therefore, in the face of an inconsistency which at the very least proves that Europe must review its copy in the fight against tax havens? Finally, the government agreement sets out its ambitions in the fight against tax fraud, in particular against major tax fraud. The message that is delivered here obviously goes in the other direction. So what initiatives do you intend to take to correct the situation and defend a more coherent and well-founded position at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u95	Madam President, Minister, it is evidently under heavy pressure that the European Commission declared on 6 October that the Cayman Islands and Oman were no longer on its blacklist of money laundering, as they had "respected their commitments to abolish a harmful tax regime and increase tax transparency." In other words, this decision has led to the shock of the active community on tax justice issues. Chiara Putaturo, Oxfam EU tax advisor, said that "the deregistration of the Cayman Islands, one of the most famous tax havens in the world, only proved once again the ineffectiveness of the system in place". Alex Cobham, CEO of the Tax Justice Network, says: "This is an extraordinary decision. It is difficult to know whether it is evidence of the lobbying efforts of the worst tax haven in the world, the Cayman Islands or the absolute methodological inefficiency of the European blacklist system. Firstly, could you tell us more about Belgium's position, or at least your predecessor's position? In view of the government declaration, which expresses a willingness to fight against tax havens, will you take steps at European level to review this decision? Do you share the position of the Network for Tax Justice on the absolute methodological ineffectiveness of the European blacklist system? Is it not problematic to judge tax havens on their commitments, as is the case here, rather than on the reality of the facts found? The Cayman Islands is included in the Belgian list provided for in article 179 of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code (CIR) 92. Can you assure me that they will remain on this list? On the other hand, Oman is not included in the list of Article 179 when, logically, it was included on the European blacklist before being removed from it. Can you explain why Oman is not on this Belgian list of tax havens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u96	In the absence of Ms Lanjri, her question No 55009322C was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u97	Madam President, in February 2020 the Cayman Islands and Oman were included in the European list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. For the Cayman Islands this was done because the legislation on collective investment funds did not meet the criterion of the existence of a real economic activity. For Oman this was because it did not meet the criteria for the automatic exchange of information and the signing and ratification of the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance. The Cayman Islands brought their legislation into line with that criterion and could thus be removed from the European list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. Oman in turn adopted legislation allowing automatic exchange of information and ratified the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance. It could thus also be removed from the European list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. Since the start of work on the EU list of non-cooperative third countries for tax purposes in 2016, Belgium has worked constructively on ambitious and objective criteria to increase pressure on tax ports. In an EU context, we are stronger to bring about change and create a global level playing field on tax standards. The application of the criteria on transparency and fair taxation and the implementation of the OECD base erosion profit shifting or BEPS standards should evolve so as to maximise the impact of the EU list. In this context, Belgium participates in the plans launched by the European Commission on 15 July 2020 under the heading of tax good governance. It should be noted that the recommendations addressed to Belgium in 2019 and 2020 do not contain recommendations for tax reform in relation to the fight against tax evasion or aggressive tax avoidance. During the negotiations on the European Recovery Fund, Belgium has endeavoured to ensure that a country concerned can choose the recommended reforms which it considers best to meet the objectives of the European Recovery Fund, with the emphasis on the importance of dialogue with the European Commission on this matter. This was based on the view that all economic reform recommendations are equivalent and that economic recovery needs to be focused, in particular on reform and investment measures with a lasting impact on our economy. In other words, fiscal and fiscal reforms should not be given more importance than other economic reform recommendations under the European Recovery Fund. With regard to the list of section 179 of the Royal Decree and at the time of updating, the Cayman Islands did not have a corporate tax system. That was why that State met the criteria for inclusion in that list. These criteria are not the same as the criteria for inclusion in the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. As far as Oman is concerned, it did not meet the criteria set out in article 307 of the Income Tax Code 1992 when it was last updated. From the internationally renowned IBFD database, Oman had a corporate tax system. In the latter, a nominal common law rate of more than 10 % was applicable. Since the last update, the criteria set out in Article 307 of the Income Tax Code 1992 have also been amended. Only when this list is updated again will these new criteria be applicable for the first time. Therefore, it is not excluded that this State should still be included in this list in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the Committee on Finance we have worked very well with your predecessor in recent months when it comes to the fight against tax fraud, in particular against companies operating in tax havens, countries where the correct collection of taxes is less closely dealt with. That is how we have extended the criteria in this respect. I have no doubt that we will cooperate equally well with you on the dossier of non-cooperative jurisdictions. As always, Belgium must remain ambitious in terms of tax good governance. We must make the directives, rules and criteria stricter with a view to greater tax justice at international level. Belgium and Europe have nothing to gain from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Fiscal justice is also important to us. The honourable Member is quite right to refer to some of the draft laws that your predecessor presented in the spring and summer of the European Parliament in the Covid-19 context and in which he made a full contribution to the fight against tax havens. We have expressly supported the texts on this subject, not in the caricature way in which some groups may sometimes fall, but in a sober, business-like manner. Thank you for your technical explanation of the criteria. As a Member of Parliament, it is not always easy to get a look at the technical aspects of the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u100	Minister, I see the nuances you make in your answer. I think we need to distinguish two things. Indeed, there is something about the European legal institutional dynamics, with certain criteria, which, by the way, can also be questioned. Aren't they too lax? And there is the way we protect our tax territory from our tax code. There, indeed, we must be careful to continue to include the Cayman Islands in the list of tax havens, in the light of a whole series of tax provisions, such as deductible dividends, interest paid in certain territories that are subject to an exorbitant tax system under common law, or a whole range of measures that do not apply when a State with which a financial or economic flow exists has no corporate tax or tax system equivalent to our corporate tax system. You really need to be careful about that. I think that we must continue to have a lucid screening at European level. It must be considered that a State can, in a somewhat cosmetic way, cooperate while continuing to be an area of fiscal attractiveness, due to the absence of taxation or the presence of symbolic taxation. In this regard, Minister of Finance, you must remember that today is the time to fight tax fraud and tax optimisation. It is only on this condition that States will structurally bail out their financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u101	Minister, if I hear your answer correctly, you are in fact endorsing the European Union's decision to remove the Cayman Islands from the blacklist. I think that such a position is problematic for a government that claims to want to fight against tax havens. Obviously, you are looking at minor commitments or even legislative changes that will be made by this country, without seeing the reality of the facts. That's what the quotes of this Oxfam representative and the Tax Justice Network tell you. It's the worst tax haven in the world. We must not simply see vague commitments, but the reality of things and statistics. We have to see the billions that go to this country to be cleared. That is the way to act. You say, "Yes, the European Union, that's not how it does it." That's the problem! I quoted Alex Cobham from the Network for Tax Justice who says that "the blacklist system is an aberration and it doesn't work. The proof is the Cayman Islands." You say that these are the rules laid down by the European Union. If you continue in this direction, we are not going to wage a real fight against tax havens. These are your beginnings. So I say to you: get together and really fight against tax havens, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u102	Question No 55009322C by Mrs Nahima Lanjri is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u103	Madam President, I would first like to congratulate the Minister on his assumption of office. This is the first time I've had the pleasure of questioning him. I therefore wish him good luck in his new duties. Mr Minister, I have recently asked the outgoing Foreign Minister, Mr Goffin, about the status of the case of the Global Sustainability Development Trust (GSDT) managed by Prince Laurent about the amounts owed to this association by Libya, which should be repaid by drawing on the frozen funds of the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) held in Belgium by Euroclear. Before leaving his office, the minister confirmed that GSDT's claim to the Libyan State had been declared final by the judiciary. He recalled that the liquidator of GSDT had requested the release of the frozen funds in Belgium denominated in the name of the LIA and its subsidiary, LAFICO, in order to allow the payment of the debt of the Libyan State to the amount of 47,961,380.80 euros, to increase interest on arrears since 1 November 2019. LIA and LAFICO are sovereign funds from the Libyan state, as confirmed by the Paris Court of Appeal. They are, moreover, frozen in accordance with resolution 1970 of 26 February 2011 concerning the Libyan State. Derogations from the assets freeze are possible. Paragraph 21 of the resolution provides that States members of the United Nations may authorize the release of assets to enable the payment of contractual obligations arising prior to the inclusion of the entities concerned in the sanctions list. Minister Goffin assured that he had contacted the secretariat of the Sanctions Committee and that, in relation to GSDT's claim to Libya, it was well within the scope of paragraph 21. It is now necessary for Belgium to notify the Sanctions Committee of its willingness to enforce judicial decisions in respect of GSDT. No formal authorisation is required from the Committee and, after a period of ten days, Belgium may in any event proceed and require Euroclear to draw from the Libyan sovereign funds it holds the sums necessary for the repayment of GSDT. This notification is up to you, as Minister of Finance, before you pass it on to your colleague in Foreign Affairs - which serves, in a way, as a transmission belt. If I introduced a supplementary question, it was because in the meantime I was able to read a letter sent on August 24 by the French-speaking president of the company's tribunal, Mr.Paul D'Haeyer, to the liquidator of the ASBL GSDT, Mr. The president of the court also recalls that the Belgian State has already intervened to help Belgian companies, including FN Herstal, recover their claims against Libya. The president of the court considers that it is clear - and this is important and that is why I am adding it - that in article 5 of the statutes of the Libyan Investment Authority, this entity is an emanation of the Libyan State, created and controlled by the Libyan State. The president of the court concluded that LIA funds could be used to pay the debts of the state of Libya. It seems to me that these additional elements underline the urgency for the Belgian State to finally notify the UN Sanctions Committee of the payment of the sum due to the ASBL GSDT through the thawing of funds supported by the LIA in Belgium. Minister, will you finally carry out this legitimate request? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u104	Mr Dallemagne, thank you. As you know, the file you're referring to has a long history. Since I am new as Minister of Finance, I have inquired with my administration. On the basis of the information provided to me, it is clear that there are serious legal objections to reporting to the Sanctions Committee in New York. With regard to your additional question, I take note of the letter from the president of the tribunal of the French-speaking company mentioning the various judgments against the Libyan State in favour of GSDT, but, in the framework of the European regulation, these judgments were delivered after the date of the decision of the freeze and probably cannot be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u105	Minister, I hear your answer. She surprises me. I would even say that it shockes me because your administration seems to know the law better than the Belgian courts, than the administrative court, than the tribunal de l'entreprise francophone de Bruxelles, than the batonnier Alex Tallon. I understand here that, on the contrary, there is a freeway for you in terms of the law to notify the Sanctions Committee. Frankly, I absolutely do not understand your administration's answer, especially since it absolutely does not argue. I ask you to develop arguments to try to convince me that your administration is right in the face of clear court decisions. The Libyan State appealed these court decisions. He lost. The commercial court in Paris made it clear that the sovereign wealth funds that were based here in Belgium were obviously an emanation of the state of Libya. The thawing of assets is obviously provided for in Article 21. Moreover, Mr. Goffin replied very clearly that there was no ambiguity as to whether Belgium could notify the Sanctions Committee. Nor do I see what Belgium risks by notifying this committee. In the worst case scenario, the Sanctions Committee itself could make arguments, but I do not understand the reason why Belgium is not doing this, whereas it has done so for private companies such as the Fabrique Nationale (FN) in Herstal, which did not, however, benefit from judicial decisions. I really think that you are exposing Belgium to prosecution by refusing to execute final court decisions, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u106	Madam Chair, I am happy to follow Prince Laurent's new lawyer to ask my question! Minister, my question concerns this famous tax on those who have the widest shoulders or those who have the largest contribution, which is mentioned in the De Croo declaration of government. We heard about him, everything and his opposite. You will understand that you are asked a few questions in order to know a little more. The more precise contours must still be formalized by you, it seems to me. Nevertheless, you could give us a few tags on what this tax will be. Will it be a tax on wealth (stock) or on flows? The representatives of the Open Vld referred to a tax in the course of operations? What operations? Income, capital gains... we don't know very well. Will it be a tax on securities accounts? The president of the MR said that everyone knows well that it is a matter of reselling the tax on securities accounts made by the previous government. It will be remembered that it was overturned by the Constitutional Court. Will the registered shares be covered by this tax? Free Belgium on 6 October quoted liberals, without identifying them, who claimed: "It is the Socialists, who want this tax, to propose a solution that is acceptable." But the Prime Minister says it is up to you to do your job and you to detail this tax. Of these two statements, what is the correct one? Do you confirm that the expected yield is, at first glance, between 150 and 300 million euros? Since then, I've been able to read in the press that you estimated it to be between 200 and 300 million. I'll take note of that. But why is this amount not reflected in the budget table that was distributed to us by the government in the House on the day we met in the European Parliament? Do you confirm, as the President of Open Vld, Egbert Lachaert, repeated, that this tax will be symbolic, i.e. that it is less its budgetary performance that counts than the symbol it will represent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u107	Mr Minister, the tax on strong shoulders or the tax on wealth is, of course, very interesting politically to follow. Apparently, that rich tax needs to get there soon. We're not gonna drag this file. There's no point. It's better to take care of it immediately, then we'll be done with it. It is a simple reasoning that is made today at the top of Open VLD. The rich tax is also included in the coalition agreement and is a socialist horse. He better be dealt with right away. The fact that this tax is not pleasant for the liberals is another understatement. Among other things, Jong Open VLD honked at the liberal accession conference that such an asset tax certainly does not come. In the meantime, it is clear that there is a political deal on it. In an interview with Le Soir two weeks ago, MR President Georges-Louis Bouchez did not speak. The Liberals had accepted that there would be another securities tax. In concrete terms, this is a tax on transactions of more than EUR 1 million which would be held back immediately at source. That way, there's no need for a power caster at all. That is a much greater fear of the liberals. That message fits in nicely with what the socialists ultimately want. Last week, Paul Magnette gave an unmistakable shot in front of the bow in L'Echo. There, the PS President said openly and openly that a proposal for a rich tax should now be put forward quickly. Right away, the PS boss addressed you directly, the new finance minister. He said that the principle is that the richest make a 1% contribution to additional funding of health care. The Minister of Finance must find a formula that offers the most legal stability. He himself said he wouldn't play minister. It is the Finance Minister who has to come up with a proposal, Magnette says, and preferably quickly, because the new levy must start generating revenue from 2021. Those were clear instructions from the boss of the PS. I have four specific questions about this. Mr Minister, is there any clarity about the technique that will be used for this strong shoulder tax or rich tax? Will this be done in the form of a new securities tax? Which taxable persons are endorsed by this new tax? Is this going to be a structural or a one-off load? Will the new tax already generate revenue in 2021, as the PS boss dictates? What is the timetable for this new load?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as the government agreement clearly states, the government will submit a proposal to the next budgetary control in March 2021. This will be developed in the coming weeks and months during parliamentary discussions. All aspects of this tax can be dealt with in more detail. Because there are still a lot of modalities to be agreed, no budgetary estimate has yet been made. This will also be done against the budgetary control of March 2021 and will therefore be included in the budgetary tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u109	Minister, I would like to thank you for your non-response. I am surprised to hear you say that there is no budget estimate. In the press, however, you give an estimate of between 200 and 300 million euros. Your answer is therefore different depending on whether you are in front of a journalist or a deputy. In any event, it is clear that the amount you have communicated to the press is nothing more than a symbolic tax, as the Open Vld has pointed out, which represents 0.06% of the wealth of the richest 1%. This is therefore a way of agitating a tax on the rich, but it will have no concrete impact on the budget. Therefore, as always, it is the population that will pay the taxes. We are also moving towards a new tax on securities accounts. The president of the MR said it was a political secret: everyone knows it within the government, but some don't want to show it. A tax on securities accounts means that, as was the case under the Michel government, the biggest fortunes will escape this tax. I'm talking about billionaires like Boel, Bertrand, Janssen and others. These great fortunes do not hold securities accounts but nominal shares. They will therefore be exempt from this tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u110	Madam President, I think Mr Van Hees will never admit it, but actually the PVDA gets right in the coalition agreement, they get what they want. There will almost certainly be an extra load on power. The PVDA asked and the PVDA gets this on a dish. Belgium already has a lot of fragmented capital taxes and is already one of the countries in Europe and the world with the highest wealth revenue. That's what this government wants to do. The Flemish savers and the Flemish self-employed in this country will be affected. The coalition agreement provides, what is called, for a contribution from those persons who have the greatest capacity or ability. Of course, we all know who they are: the savers, especially in Flanders, who have put away an apple for thirst and the self-employed, especially in Flanders, who have built up a capacity to compensate for a much too low pension. The Flemings will eventually pay the Vivaldigelag, so much is clear. PS boss Magnette was very clear. You're not really going against his dictates. The slogan of this new government will undoubtedly become, as has already been said here: 'Wallonia determines and Flanders pays'.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Here, we really have a particular question because I introduced it thirteen days ago and the government has already answered that question yesterday. So I feel like I've been heard. This is the question of the coordination of the fight against fraud. The Vivaldi had a score and orchestral composition. The score did not correspond to the composition of the orchestra since in the score it was indicated that a member of the government would be appointed to coordinate the fight against fraud and in the composition of the orchestra, there was no member of the government who had the power to coordinate fraud. Obviously, we realized this mistake. I don't know if it's following the question that I introduced or by some other way. However, yesterday it was announced that you would be, Minister, this member of the government responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud. I would therefore like to ask questions as a result of this change, to divert some of the questions of origin and to note that fraud can affect many ministers. Economic fraud may involve Minister Dermagne; social fraud, Minister Vandenbroucke; justice or police, Mr. Van Quickenborne. And taxation, you, Mr. Van Peteghem. How do you then design this coordination of the fight against fraud? What is your vision of this task?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u112	Thank you, Mr. Van Hees. In accordance with the government agreement, the fight against fraud is a priority as fraud undermines the tax system, particularly under the current conditions of the health crisis caused by VOCID-19. Everyone must contribute to the necessary funding for our health care and the recovery plan. I understand your question given the initial competencies at the beginning of the government. As you have learned in the meantime, the competences have been updated at the last Council of Ministers and, at the same time, the members of the Ministerial Committee on Combating Tax and Social Fraud have been appointed. In this ministerial committee, as chairman, I will be responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud in collaboration with my colleagues. By definition, coordination means consultation and cooperation. Each minister remains responsible for the fight against fraud in his or her own area of competence. But the strength of this government is to put coordination at the forefront in order to fight fraud as effectively as possible. This is therefore the main objective of the Ministerial Committee. In view of the many questions that have been asked by all of you today, I also welcome the importance that you attach to it. The next step is the resumption of the activities of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud. Within this College, all the administrations and institutions as well as the College of Attorneys General will develop a coordinated action plan for the fight against fraud. With the central competence of the coordination of the fight against fraud, the appointment of the members of the Ministerial Committee and the resumption of the activities of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud, the structures are in place to ensure a coordinated approach to fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u113	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am glad that I was able to remind the government of the content of its own government agreement. Obviously, for a few weeks the government had forgotten that it had planned to appoint a coordinator for the fight against fraud. Unfortunately, this oblivion is a bad omen. I am not making a trial of intent, but it suggests that this fight against fraud and the coordination of this fight is not so important to the government. He therefore completely forgot to put in the composition of the orchestra a person responsible for coordination. I had to introduce this question so that he could remember it. Let us hope that this is not the case but, unfortunately, we can fear it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u114	Madam President, Minister, the OECD has one country's policy reviewed regularly by the other Member States. Recently, with regard to transparency and the exchange of tax information, Malta's status has been downgraded from "largely compliant" to "partly compliant". The Maltese authorities are accused of not being sufficiently transparent with regard to the legal ownership and accounting of certain companies registered on the island. Effective monitoring is weak, particularly with regard to the beneficial owners of bank accounts. When we get to know the FinCEN case we were talking about earlier, we realize what this represents. In addition, Maltese legislation does not comply with the international standard for the identification of beneficial owners of trusts. There are about 12,000 registered inactive enterprises in Malta. Information on their owners and accounts is regularly lacking. In addition to this, Malta's apparent lack of cooperation in communicating the information requested by third countries. In short, as Quentin Parrinello, spokesman for the NGO Oxfam, summarizes, "people can hide in Malta while doing business there." Last February, Panama, which had been subject to the same partially compliant classification by the OECD, was reinstated in the black list of tax havens of the European Union. Today, a European country does not meet international standards. It should therefore logically incorporate the European blacklist. The question arises here as to whether Member States of the Union can be included on this list. Minister, will you plead at European level for Malta to be included on the European blacklist? Do you intend to place Malta on the Belgian list of tax havens included in Article 179 of the AR/CIR under Article 307 of the CIR 92 or to consider Malta as covered by Article 307 of the Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u115	Mr Van Hees, Malta's peer review of transparency and information exchange on request, organised by the World Forum, has indeed resulted in an evaluation of "partially compliant". The evaluation report is public and is available on the OECD website. The outcome of these assessments by the World Forum is taken into consideration as a criterion in the establishment of the EU list of non-cooperative territories. It also concerns third States. As far as the European Union states are concerned, the European framework provides sufficient guarantees as Member States' shortcomings, for example in terms of transparency, are monitored. This enables the European Commission to make bilateral contact with the Member State in question, with a view to ensuring that the recommendations of the Global Forum are followed up appropriately and on time. The Member States' declaration of a total amount of at least EUR 100 000 referred to in Article 307, § 1/2, IRC 92 shall, in particular, cover courts which are considered by the Global Forum on Transparency and the Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes as States "that have not effectively or substantially implemented the standard on the exchange of information on request". The Government supports the improvement of international transparency, particularly in the Code of Conduct. As a follow-up to this approach, I will ask my administration to analyse the implications of the Global Forum peer review report for transparency and information exchange, and if necessary for the development of guidelines. Courts with "non-compliant" or "partially compliant" ratings are not covered by Article 179 of Royal Decree CIR 92.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u116	Minister, this raises the whole question that organizations like Oxfam or the Network for Fiscal Justice point their finger at. It is the fact that, among the most formidable tax havens that give advantages to large companies and multinationals, we find the Cayman Islands, which were mentioned earlier, but also a number of European states such as the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Malta and Ireland. Partly even, Belgium, although a little less perhaps now. At one point, she was pointed at. The problem is, therefore, that the European Union refuses to blacklist those countries which, in fact, if we see the reality of things, are real tax havens that are very damaging to the public finances of many states. The fact that Malta is pointed at shows that the European Union applies to others what it does not apply to its own Member States. We have a bit of the same thing for Belgium. You may hide behind considerations on the definition of countries in section 179 of the Royal Decree on the application of IARC 92, but the fact is that if there is a list established to designate tax havens, and there are no known tax havens, there is a problem in the development of this list.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u117	The problem of the VAT gap has been affecting Belgium for some time now. The European Commission has recently indicated that, according to the latest available data, Belgium would have lost €3.62 billion in VAT revenue in 2018. These are amounts that our country could theoretically have collected without fraud, bankruptcy, corporate insolvency, tax evasion or errors in the calculations and collection by the administration. In short, this is the difference between the VAT we should have collected and the VAT we actually receive. Belgium's VAT gap accounts for 10,4 % of the theoretically payable VAT. Of course, this percentage has fallen slightly from the previous year, but our country is still in the eighteenth position (best to worst student) behind all its neighbours. I had already asked your predecessor about this through a written question. He told me that tax evasion was only a small part of this gap, but that the CASE report did not identify the origin of the gap. I hope that since then you have asked your administration to conduct its own investigation. What do you think are the main factors behind this VAT gap? In the progress of the study projects on the Belgian gap of 27 November 2019, the study service of your administration indicated that a new project had been launched in May 2019 with the aim of "developing a model for estimating the VAT gap for self-employed and SMEs. The first preliminary results are expected by the end of December 2019." What are the status and possible results of this project? How do you explain that Belgium is not able to significantly reduce its VAT gap, which remains much higher than in neighbouring countries? During the period under review, the Netherlands, for example, halved its VAT gap, although we barely reduced it. What measures are therefore in place to reduce this VAT gap? Is there a shortage of VAT agents in the administration? That's what we have on the ground. Can you give me the annual evolution of the number of VAT agents in the control centres since the famous "basket" within the FPS Finances?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u118	Mr Van Hees, you refer to the annual report prepared on behalf of the European Commission by the Polish study office CASE, which uses a top-down methodology based on national accounts for this purpose. The latest edition of this study estimates the Belgian VAT gap at €3.62 billion in 2018, or 10.4% of the theoretical VAT revenues. It is significantly lower than that of 11.5 per cent in 2017 and 12.2 per cent in 2015. In addition, in a first estimate for 2019, CASE foresees a further reduction of 9.4%. In Belgium, national accounts are drawn up by the Institute of National Accounts. The theoretically due VAT is estimated on this basis. This method therefore implies that each revision of the national accounts leads to a revision of this estimate, even if the VAT revenue reported remains unchanged. The FPS Finance is working on a model to address the VAT gap differently by deriving it from the results of tax controls. Preliminary results in 2014-2016 for self-employed and SMEs indicate a VAT difference of an order of magnitude similar to the results of macroeconomic estimates, i.e. a difference of about 10%. The analysis is continued to be extended to the most recent data. The results can be expected in the course of 2021. With regard to e-commerce, a fundamental change in the VAT system will improve its perception and reduce fraud in this area. More generally, the Commission's recent communication on a more equitable and simplified tax action plan in support of the recovery strategy also contains a number of new initiatives in this area, both conceptually and operationally, which will contribute to reducing the VAT gap. At the national level, we will continue our efforts to strengthen, expand, optimize and modernise the operational tools available to control services. I will mention the development of the Eurofisc network, the datamining and the implementation of effective risk analysis instruments such as the Transaction Network Analysis. Finally, the General Tax Administration organises itself at best in order to limit and correct as far as possible the errors committed by taxable persons, in particular by launching several actions, including management and control actions on various subjects, in order to cover the risks to the maximum extent. Since 2018, a number of new initiatives have been taken to step up the fight against abuses such as self-liquidation, misuse of cancelled VAT numbers, abuses related to non-filing schemes or non-VAT-registered activities. Following legislative changes, a new control action has been organised since the end of 2019 to verify the validity of VAT credits whose monthly reimbursement was requested by taxable persons during their first 24 months of activity. At the level of more general actions, the General Tax Administration combines business rules with datamining techniques which it tries to constantly improve, among other things, with the collaboration of experts in the field. The number of VAT employees is declining as a result of retirements. The Administration has already taken the necessary steps to respond to this request. The Administration attaches great importance to VAT requirements when allocating resources for the replacement of one of the control teams. In addition, the Personnel Plan 2020 identified as a priority additional resources for strengthening VAT controls. Finally, more generally, I would like to reiterate the commitment of the new government to significantly reduce this VAT gap to the level of our neighbouring countries, as explicitly provided for in the government's agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u119	Minister, the reduction of this VAT gap is indeed included in the government agreement. It's an old Belgian problem. I will follow this development closely, because it has been going on for years. As I said in my question, there is a slight drop in VAT, but the gap is widening with neighbouring countries. If the government's goal, as stated in the government agreement, is to reduce not only the VAT gap, but also the gap with neighbouring countries, there is work to be done. The question of VAT agents and their very small numbers is a real problem. I asked you for numbers. I understand that you have just taken up your duties and that many questions are being asked today. I will still go back to these figures because I think it is important to be able to follow the reality of things in a numerical way. I think that the small number of VAT agents is part of the problem. So we are trying to solve this by means of versatility, by ensuring that tax officers take charge of VAT matters, but obviously it does not work very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u120	Minister, I had already raised this issue with your predecessor. After months of non-functioning of the FPS Finance website, the consultation of beneficial owners by the general public is finally operational (and paid!) for the UBO register. However, some of the data provided raise questions. My question is of a general nature, but for the sake of clarity, I take an example of the company Domanoy, a real estate company of the Boël family whose beneficial owner mentioned, holding 33,33 % of the capital, is "Boël" without further mention. However, Article 9, § 1 of the Royal Decree of 30 July 2018 stipulates that members of the general public may have access to the information referred to in Article 3, § 1, 1°, 4° to 7°, 9° and 11° to 15°, i.e. the names, months and year of birth, country of residence, nationality, etc. Not all of this appears in the example cited. And these same absences are found for a series of other companies. Why are the various identification data provided for in Article 9, § 1 of the Royal Decree not found, where appropriate, in the UBO register available to the general public? Is it data not provided by the companies concerned or is it the administration which conceals this information when it makes it available to the general public? In the event that the administration conceals this information, is it at the request of the beneficial owners concerned, in accordance with the derogation provided for in Article 16 of the Royal Decree? How many requests for exemption under Article 16 have been addressed to the administration? How many were accepted by the administration? Is this derogation provided for in the Royal Decree in accordance with the law and the European Directive from which it is derived?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u121	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, the question of the accessibility of the information referred to in the Royal Decree of 30 July 2018 by members of the general public is known to the General Administration of the Treasury. Computer developments are under way to make this information accessible. This should be the case from mid-December 2020. With regard to your questions relating to Article 16 of the Royal Decree mentioned above, to date 1,460 requests for derogation have been submitted: 967 applications concerned minors of age or incapacitated and have therefore been accepted and 76 requests for derogation have been refused. Pending applications are being processed and decisions will be notified to the beneficial owners concerned in the coming weeks. Furthermore, the derogation provided for in the Royal Decree is also provided for in the Directive. The European Commission has not raised any objection to the conformity of Article 16 with the European Directive you are referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u122	Minister, could you repeat the number of applications submitted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u123	There are 1,460 requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u124	As I understand it, some of these requests have not yet been dealt with. So we're waiting. I note that 76 applications have been refused and that the 967 applications granted relate only to minors of age. It would therefore appear that there are no other cases. As a result, I have no explanation as to the reason for the refusal of the case that I set out in my question. I am also surprised to hear you say that it will be operational by December 2020, when I was able to access it in September. The information is somewhat contradictory, unless it was available at a time and subsequently unavailable. Minister, I will come back to this question to get all the answers to the requests made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u125	Mr Minister, we are currently dealing with the FinCEN file, but the Panama Papers are still remembering. In Belgium, it took particularly long time to obtain information from the German authorities. Your predecessor's answer to my written question No. 518 of 26 August 2020, in which I asked him about the acquisition from the German authorities of Panama Papers data concerning Belgian taxpayers, indicates that the Special Tax Inspectorate obtained this data on 25 August 2020. Minister, why did it take more than four years to get this data? Indeed, the leaks related to Panama Papers date from April 2016. Have you identified any structural problems that should be resolved in order to avoid such delays in the future? Since it is evident that leaks involving tax or money laundering problems are increasing. I would like Belgium to be no longer a bad student and no longer four years in the future for an exchange of information. Are there any structural measures to resolve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u126	Sir, as stated in my predecessor's reply to your parliamentary question No. 518 of 26 August 2020, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes immediately contacted the Bundeskriminalamt (BKA) in Germany, namely the Federal Criminal Police Office, as soon as it became aware of the fact that the German police had information about Panama Papers. In response to our requests, the BKA informed us that it could not interact with the ISI because it did not have police powers and did not intervene in a judicial process. We then offered them an alternative by using the German tax as an intermediary when he had it. This did not finally succeed until August 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u127	Minister, I thought we were going to move a little further on the question I asked your predecessor, but you are just repeating his answer. My questions went a little further. Know why it took so long and what would be put in place to solve these delays. Obviously, there is no answer to that. This does not augur well for the future to obtain information from the authorities of another country in a similar case. All right, I'll take note of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u128	Minister, at a presentation by former Budget Minister David Clarinval (who now holds other functions), in the House's Finance Committee on Tuesday, September 15, we learned that the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, who at the time was Alexander De Croo (now Prime Minister), paid or charged nearly half a million euros – 486 000 euros to be precise – to the law firm Eubelius for legal assistance in drafting the draft law on state guarantees for the banking sector. My astonishment is threefold, Minister. First, I am concerned that members of the government are increasingly resorting to the private sector for tasks that could be carried out by members of cabinets and administration. Secondly, it is troubling to see, once again, Eubelius sell his services to the State, knowing that this law firm was founded by the one who, until recently, was still Minister of Justice, Koen Geens. Thirdly, the expense arises, simply for assistance in the drafting of a bill that is barely 21 pages long and is not distinguished by great complexity. Minister, I come to my questions. Has this recourse to Eubelius been the subject of a call for tenders? If so, can you provide me with this invitation to tender? Can you give me the contract with Eubelius and their bill of honors? At what rate did Eubelius charge for these services? How many hours have they been given by Eubelius and what is the breakdown of these hours for the various aspects of assistance in drafting the bill? Apart from Eubelius, what other companies have registered for this procurement and what was their proposed hourly and overall rate? Finally, what are the reasons for the choice made in favour of Eubelius?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u129	Mr Van Hees, a new market has not been used. The General Administration of the Treasury has used the existing contract for the provision of legal services by lawyers, particularly in the field of European and international law. Thus, in the context of the procedure negotiated directly with prior publicity relating to the provision of legal services by lawyers on behalf of the General Administration of Treasury (Lot 3: European and international law), my predecessor decided, on 19 October 2019, to award the contract to the following firms. I quote in the order: Eubelius CVBA, Van Bael & Bellis SNC, Covington & Burling LLP. I also have figures and hourly rates for Eubelius, Van Bael & Bellis and Covington & Burling. Reading this document would be tedious. If you deem it necessary, I may provide you with this information in writing. In any event, the total bill for services at the hourly rates provided for in the offer amounts to EUR 395 204.04 excluding VAT. Eubelius has worked on the implementation of the rules and on the notification to the European Commission of the two guarantee schemes and the extension of the first. Not only hourly rates were taken into account, but quality was also taken into account. It can be noted, for example, that Eubelius has reported numerous publications in the field of competition law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u130	Minister, thank you for your answers. Perhaps you could e-mail me the encrypted data you didn't say orally. I'm astonished about the amount. I'm going to analyze the documents, the numbers, the invoices, if that's what you're going to give me. I am surprised at this amount: EUR 486 000 or EUR 395 000 excluding VAT. It's still a huge amount of money for a task like this. I am really surprised and curious to see the number of hours that have been worked for that. I find it quite surprising that there is no new market for such an amount. The fact that it is always Eubelius who appears and who is retained by the government when this law firm was founded by the one who was at that time one of the members of that government is all the more disturbing. Everything is a little troubling in this case, minister. I'm waiting for your documents to be able to analyze them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u131	Mr Minister, after half an hour of hunting down the rich, the banking and business sectors, we are going down to the about 4 million Belgians who can rely on the proposal of simplified declaration or VVA. This has become the most important way of taxing persons. An investigation by the Federal Ombudsman, which was published in full in spring but a few weeks ago, shows that many citizens today can hardly control their VVA. The complexity of the tax regulations in this country is one of the biggest obstacles to the VVA's success in achieving proper taxation. Tax expert Michel Maus, certainly not unknown to you, has already confirmed that. There is a need for fiscal reform, which is a different subject, but indirectly, of course, it is floating in the background. In the brief context of an oral question, I can only refer to twelve recommendations, one to the federal Parliament and eleven to the FPS Finance. I'd like to talk to you about that. Your predecessor, Mr De Croo, replied at the time that the FPS Finance had been sitting with the Ombudsman on 4 March 2020 and would like to participate fully in a solution. He also recalled that the taxpayer has a lot of adjustment options, for example directly via Tax-on-web. Even if one does not respond to a VVA with errors after receiving, one can still lodge an objection once one receives the hit note. Nevertheless, I think it is important to follow up on the recommendations. Can you list how the FPS Finance handles its targeted recommendations or has already implemented them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u132	As the Federal Ombudsman points out, my administration continues to improve the quality of the simplified declaration proposals or VVA proposals year after year and pays great attention to their readability. The various recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman will, of course, guide my administration in improving the VVA in the coming years. Some recommendations can be implemented without too much effort. Others, of course, clash with technical constraints. As regards the recommendation on information to citizens, I would like to remind you that a great deal of information is already available, both on the VVA and on the FPS Finance website. Some important messages will also be sent at the press conference on the tax return. As far as missing, incomplete or incorrect information is concerned, my administration already stresses that the risk of errors is greater for certain data. However, she will try to improve the information on the site and on the VVA. As far as monitoring assistance is concerned, my administration cannot follow the recommendation of the Federal Ombudsman to provide physical assistance during fill-in sessions for the target group of the VVA. For that target group, telephone assistance appears to be the most appropriate and efficient channel. The review of the VVA, whose data are largely, if not fully, pre-filled, can easily be done via that channel, as the employees of my administration are used to asking relevant questions to the target group. That was confirmed this year. The telephone lines for the target group have been widely used. Nor can my administration respond favourably to the recommendation to provide telephone and physical assistance to the taxpayer or target group of the VVA outside the normal reporting period, who could not obtain such assistance because of the corona crisis. All taxpayers could receive telephone assistance in the verification of their VVA. As regards the reasons for excluding the target group for the VVA, my administration will inform taxpayers that they are no longer part of the VVA target group and that they will now have to submit a tax-on-web or paper declaration. For technical reasons, that letter cannot individually state the exact reason for the exclusion. As regards the recommendation on the allocation of dependent children, my administration will improve its internal instructions to better inform the taxpayer through the site and at the VVA itself about the financial consequences of his choice and about the possibility of maintaining that choice in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u133	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed and accurate answer. The latter, of course, was a delicate point in the investigation. One of the problems was the inappropriate criterion of allocating the child burden in the VVA and Tax-on-web. I think it is very good that internal instructions will be adapted and improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u134	Minister, we have received a government agreement which is rather vague in many respects. We don't know exactly what's behind it. I don't know if there's much in your Atomic Writing. I do know, however, that there is nothing in the coalition agreement. That is a first observation. The second observation is that it took more than a year and a half to form a government after the elections. I think there were about 16 contract holders who wrote a lot of lyrics. Most notable was the text of Mr Lachaert and Mr Rousseau, who became the basis of the coalition agreement. When comparing these two, it is striking that a number of cases have been taken over, but also a number of cases have not been taken over. It has already become clear in the question: it is not because a number of things are not there, that apparently there are no agreements about it. Additional clarifications have been provided. I have also noticed a number of passages with phrases that seem to have been deleted. Hence this series of questions. I want to know why that is. Is that a deliberate choice, or is that not the case? This question is about public debt. The note by Mr Lachaert and Mr Rousseau stated that special attention should be paid to public debt and, above all, to the very low interest rates that we are paying on it, but that we should be careful, because in the longer term that might change. What can be done about it and how can it be reduced? By selling non-strategic assets or public participations. There are a number of conditions for that. This must be done under favourable market conditions, and no strategic assets should be sold because those shares normally also generate revenue for the State Treasury. This last part, the part on the sale of shares is not included in the final government agreement. Is that a deliberate choice? Does this mean that this exercise will not be made and that these matters will not be considered? Does this mean that you assume that the interest rates will remain low in the longer term, whereas otherwise this was reflected in Mr Lachaert's note?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u135	Madam President, Mr Loones, thank you for this question and for all your next questions. You seem to have had a lot of time to compare different versions of documents with the coalition agreement. I hope you have also found the tool in Word that makes a comparison between two documents very easy. In reply to this question and to your next questions, I can tell you that I, as a minister, fully adhere to the coalition agreement. With regard to your question on public debt, the Belgian Debt Agency, in its latest projections for the Monitoring Committee, has taken into account a slight and gradual increase in interest rates for the years 2020 to 2024. I can get you those numbers in case you're interested. The government agreement does not provide for the sale of public assets, but that does not rule out the possibility for this government to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u136	Madam President, Minister, thank you for this clear answer. "We don't do it, but we don't rule it out" which I consider significant. I would encourage you not to exclude that slope if there were any need for it and if there were market-compliant opportunities to do some business. The government doesn't have to do everything. She doesn't have to be a banker, for example. There will certainly be a number of questions in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u137	Madam President, Minister, the deduction of entrepreneurs is another feature of Mr Lachaert's note. We know that there has been a tax cut for companies, but it does not apply to self-employed sole proprietorships. Therefore, the Lachaert-Rousseau note stated that there would also be a corporate deduction for self-employed sole proprietorships. That was the trophy of the Open Vld. However, this deduction is not included in the final government agreement. Is that a deliberate choice? Is that something the Open Vld would have liked to bring in, but was not awarded in the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u138	My answer can be very short. The government will carry out what is in the government agreement and communicate about it in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u139	Mr Minister, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, Open Vld will be able to whistle at that trophy and that sole proprietorship will not receive this tax reduction that we support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u140	Minister, the government agreement states: 'In the context of social housing policy, the reduced VAT rate of 6% for the demolition and reconstruction of buildings will be increased'. Does this only apply to the renovation of social housing? Or is it about the policy that should be social? Do we want to respond to people who are less capital-intensive? Can people who do not live in a social home also benefit from the reduced rate of 6%? In a previous draft text by Mr Lachaert and Mr Rouseau, this was a little more explicit and related to insulation standards, energy performance and investment in renewable energy. We do not see that in the final coalition agreement. Could you give me more explanation on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u141	This will be the subject of the programme law which will shortly be submitted by the government. We will provide for a system, in particular the extension of the reduced rate of 6% for the demolition and reconstruction of buildings to the whole of Belgium. By focusing on the demolition and reconstruction of buildings, this measure will, of course, have an important positive environmental impact, taking into account the strict current energy performance standards for new homes. If you have any questions about the practical implementation of this draft, you will have to wait for the programme law to be submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u142	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The reduced deduction will therefore not be limited to social housing. So people who want to work on their homes can also benefit from this reduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u143	Madam President, Minister, when we look at climate and climate tax ambitions, there is an interesting phrase in the coalition agreement. Your ambition is to study taxation to make it more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. It also says: "In principle, it should be a budget-neutral instrument in which income is returned to the population and businesses." So there must be a shift in taxes and not an increase in taxes, as I read it, and it must be budget-neutral. Is that about neutrality at macro level or micro level? Macro level: if taxes are pushed, we know that there will be losers and winners. Microlevel: then one gets the discussion about, for example, the commercial cars, that these people may have less in the future and will lose at individual level. It would be interesting to know if this exercise is macro or micro.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u144	Madam President, a budget neutral instrument does not mean that a measure or a set of measures does not affect the situation of each individual, otherwise it would be particularly difficult to pursue a fiscal policy that discourages environmentally harmful behaviour. It is therefore, of course, at macro level that we need to look at this budget neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u145	Minister, your answer is clear. I hope that special attention will be paid to those who work hard and therefore have to make a number of investments and who cannot get out of a number of things, so that they do not have to pay the bill alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u146	Minister, according to the government agreement, a system is being set up whereby people should share the balance of their bank account with the central point of contact of the National Bank. In the texts that went around during negotiations, that was more conditional. At the time, it was mainly the question of whether the tax authorities would have access to that information. The system goes through the National Bank to avoid that the information does not immediately reach the tax authorities; it should be possible to do so. In previous texts this became somewhat difficult, because the tax authorities could only consult the information if there were indications of fraud and, moreover, it would have to be checked by a high-ranking official. That conditionality is not in the final coalition agreement, which raises the question of why. Were these conditions deliberately deleted and is it intended that the tax authorities will have easier access to that information, or will the measure be refined later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u147	Mr Loones, as I have just said, there are a few more differences between the drafts of the informant report and the final coalition agreement. On the other hand, the coalition agreement also contains much more than the passage that you put forward in your question. Thus, the CAP will be expanded to include bank account balances, thus increasing the efficiency of a consultation of the CAP in an administrative investigation. The privacy of our citizens is an important point of attention in the coalition agreement. I refer, for example, to the provisions on digitalisation, where the government is committed to following up on new digital developments and react quickly with new legislation to ensure the privacy and fair treatment of consumers. In this sense, my administration and the Data Protection Authority will carry out a study aimed at enabling the search of the CAP for files that have been identified in the context of data mining as one or more indications of tax evasion or signs or indices. The texts for this purpose will be submitted to the committee, and of course a further technical discussion will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u148	Minister, that is clear. We should trust the government, but we sometimes doubt whether the government can be trusted. It is also important to bear the privacy aspect high in mind. I believe that you have used the word privacy four or five times in your answer, and that will undoubtedly be an indication of your sensitivity in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u149	Madam President, Minister, this is a very interesting question about taxing the biggest Internet players in the world. We know that our corporate tax has not really been adapted to our modern times. This tax is still invented at a time when only physical companies existed and it was considered how to tax them. In the meantime, there are new players present on the market, and I am thinking in particular of the internet, whose turnover cannot immediately be allocated to a physical location. The question therefore arises as to how to ensure that they also pay a fair or correct share of the taxes. Two things stand out in all of this. Firstly, the coalition agreement calls for an international or European approach. If that does not work, however, this government wants to do so alone. A previous version of Mr Lachaert and Mr Rousseau's negotiating texts said that Belgium would do it alone, but with a number of like-minded countries. In such a case, Europeans are talking about 'enhanced cooperation', or even 'enhanced cooperation'. However, in the current coalition agreement, this passage has disappeared. Secondly, the question is therefore whether it is actually the intention to introduce such a tax alone. This would be very striking, wouldn't it? If this tax is effectively introduced, the question arises as to where the money will go. The coalition agreement states that the proceeds will go to Europe. On the other hand, EUR 100 million is included in the budget table 2024, which means that you are counting on the money to be collected for your own budget. Some clarification would therefore be interesting in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u150	Madam President, Mr Loones, we will put in the Chamber a draft law implementing what is contained in the government agreement, in particular the introduction of a digital valuation if agreement cannot be reached at international, OECD or EU level by 2023, which, of course, is still our preferred option. The government supports the idea of financing the EU budget with more own resources and considers the introduction of a European digitalaks as one of the possibilities for this. We shall first look at what will be done at OECD level with regard to the introduction of a digitaks, because this is where a global approach is most appropriate. Belgium will take the lead in the negotiations. By mid 2021, it should be clear whether a global digitaks is possible. If it is blocked, we will move the debate to the European level. If the Member States then reach an agreement to increase European own resources through the introduction of a European digitaks, then its proceeds will logically benefit part of the EU budget. In any case, the government wants to ensure that, within the framework of fair taxation, the digital giants do not continue to escape taxes. In short, should a solution not be found both at OECD level and at European level, Belgium will introduce a digital tax itself in 2023. This implies, therefore, that we must have used all the possibilities at OECD and European level to introduce such a digital tax before Belgium unilaterally takes its own steps to introduce it. As has already been said, we will first take the lead in finding a solution, and if it is not possible in 2023, we will introduce a digitaks ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u151	Minister, that is an interesting answer because you confirm internationalism. I think this is wise. Our group is also in favour of doing so at OECD level, if it really could not be done at European level. I do have some questions about the following. You say that if this is introduced at European level, this should partly benefit the European budget. That is already a point of discussion. After all, the government agreement states that these are Europe's own resources, so it goes completely to the European Union. If you say part of it, you're gonna have to count on a little bit of it coming here. As far as we are concerned, if a digitaks is introduced at OECD level or at European level, then all these proceeds should come to this country. If Europe is to be financed, this will be done with contributions, as is the case today. Furthermore, you see it as an ultimate option to do it all alone. We call for vigilance in this regard. We have seen that a number of countries have tried this. Think of France. They introduced it for a year. This has generated EUR 280 million. Mr Macron himself immediately withdrew this because there was a trade war with America. If we were to do so alone, there is a high risk that the same thing will happen. Especially in Flanders this would have a negative impact, because 68 percent of Belgium's trade with America comes from Flanders. Then we'd be the child of the account. So please do not do that alone and certainly not without your neighbouring countries, and really just not without your OECD or EU partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u152	Madam President, in view of the time it is now, I agree to turn my question concerning the surrender of part of the tax revenue from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to Belgium into a written question, since the Secretariat informed me that no matter was attached to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u153	Of which act. Question No 55009708C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u154	Minister, this is a subject that you and we undoubtedly have a close interest in. After all, we are both engaged in family parties. The government agreement contains a number of measures to reduce and lighten the tax burden on families. For example, an extension of the tax relief for babysitters will be envisaged. There will also be a tax-free allowance for parents and grandparents, for siblings who are dependent on people over 65 years of age. That supplement would be increased. These are a number of things that are contained in the coalition agreement. They are fine proposals that we fully support. Apparently, one proposal fell away during the negotiations which had been explicitly written out before. It was about doubling the tax credit for dependent children. It was still in Lachaert-Rousseau, but it is not in the final coalition agreement. Is it a deliberate choice not to double the tax credit for dependent children, or did that measure fall between the folds of the night-time negotiating web?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u155	Mr Loones, I can answer you briefly and forcefully. The government will carry out what is in the government agreement and communicate about it in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u156	Minister, it is a pity that the government agreement does not include this doubling. We know that you and your party are certainly in favour of the proposal. I will therefore take action, develop the proposal further and technically and submit it to Parliament. We can then put it to the vote so that we can give extra support to our families and give them the boost they certainly deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u157	Minister, a few days ago, in De Tijd, the result of a survey by the Vlerick Business School at 300 companies on current wage taxation was published. The companies claim that the tax burden on labour is particularly high and they denounce the enormous complexity of all kinds of favor regimes, in particular the mobility budget. This is described as too complex, too inflexible and not enough interesting. They suggest to cut heavily in the extralegal benefits in exchange for lower wage costs. These conclusions are not a surprise to anyone in this committee. It is also no coincidence that the government agreement included the need for a comprehensive tax reform aimed at simplifying our tax system and reducing the burden on labour. However, the same government agreement also states that to date the very little popular mobility budget will be extended to workers who do not claim a company car. Mr Minister, do you see what in the suggested slope to cut the extra-legal benefits in order to reduce the wage burden? Do you think it is possible to take steps here in the short term in anticipation of a comprehensive tax reform? Do you have recent figures on the use of the mobility budget? Do you agree with the criticism that the mobility budget is not sufficiently flexible, complex and unsuitable for companies not accessible by public transport? To what extent do you intend to make a success of the mobility budget by broadening the target group and how will this prevent the gradual shift of alternative forms of remuneration towards remuneration in euro from being prevented in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u158	Mr Vandenbroucke, I have heard many dialects here today. Yours is from Ghent, which is why I certainly want to formulate an answer to your question. I share your view that taxation is far too complex and needs to be simplified. As you point out, this was explicitly included in the coalition agreement. The extralegal benefits in our country are among other things the result of the high rates in our personal income tax. As part of the fiscal reform, I will look at how this can be rebalanced. In the 2019 income year, 109 employers allocated a mobility budget to 182 employees and 73 managers, except that for managers, it should be those who have or are eligible for a company car as an employee in a company. Moreover, the measure on the mobility budget takes place for the first time in 2019, which means that the figures are not yet representative of the future. It usually takes a number of years to obtain figures at cruising speed. This is why the previous Ministers of Work, Minister Peeters and his successor Minister Muylle, have taken an important initiative with the website www.mobilitybudget.be, which responds to many questions from citizens and businesses, thus helping to simplify the application of the rules of the mobility budget. In addition to the passage in the coalition agreement, there is finally the bill by Mr Van den Bergh, which you are undoubtedly aware of, which sets out a number of simplifications of the mobility budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u159	I have noted that you are looking for a new balance between complexity and simplicity in our tax system. The figures of the mobility budget start-up year will indeed be typical for a start-up year, but I am, frankly, a little critical of its potential. We need to move as quickly as possible from alternative forms of remuneration to remuneration in euros. I look forward to the initiatives that will follow in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-20-55-commissie-ic282x.u160	At the end of this sitting, Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your baptism of fire.
