ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome everyone, and in particular the new Minister, Mrs Dedonder. I would like to begin by congratulating you on your position as a new minister or MOD, as we call it. We in this committee have a good habit of working together in a good way. Cooperation with previous ministers was excellent. If there were any questions, they were always discussed in detail. There's a whole question session on the agenda today. We look forward to a good cooperation. There were questions from the committee to organise an exchange of views specifically on the coalition agreement, but you felt that it was not currently being discussed and that we would be able to discuss them in detail when discussing the policy letters. I therefore believe that we should give sufficient time in our agendas to discuss this issue. Two weeks ago, the plenary suggested working for the policy letters in two sessions. There would be a draft proposal to Parliament, which would provide for amendments. That was a proposal from the majority that is carried Chamberwide. However, we must also subscribe to the agreements that are made between the government and the Chamber. That's a case that transcends the Defense Department. There must be a general approach. I certainly hope that these plans will be implemented further. Let's start with the topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u2	I should also like to begin by congratulating the Minister on behalf of the group of Flemish Interest on her appointment as a new Minister for Defence. I wish her every success and strength. Madam Minister, you will be given the authority over a beautiful department, very interesting too, with a lot of challenges, some of which are precarious. I hope you will be able to turn that into a success. I hope that you will also show the same openness and transparency as your predecessor with regard to Parliament. Having said that, I ask my first question about the outsourcing project of the Defense Department. You know that on Monday 1 October 2020, your first working day, in Paal-Beringen in Limburg, a warehouse has been officially put into service which serves as a central distribution point for military equipment. Defence works together with logistics partner Katoen Natie. This is part of a partnership that will have to be an expression of logistical innovation within Defence. I'm gonna be brief about the introduction. The fact is clear in itself. But I do have a number of questions, Madam Secretary. Madam Minister, can you explain further the development of the cooperation agreement and the agreement itself? What does cooperation mean in terms of tasks, in terms of financial cost sharing between Defence and a private partner? How do you evaluate the cooperation agreement within the global evolution towards outsourcing within Defence, including in terms of cost savings? There was a bit of uncertainty about that. So we would have liked to have received some more information about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, on behalf of the MR Group, I wish you every success. There are many challenges within your department and the burning issues we have to take with us. I have been sitting on this committee for a few years now and I can tell you that we really hope to move forward. You can therefore count on our good cooperation but also on our control as parliamentarians. Mr President, in the same vein as my colleague, I would like to ask the minister about the outsourcing contract decided under the previous legislature with Katoen Natie. Many defence services have been outsourced. Personally, I am one of those who have always supported the outsourcing of services where it could be done. This is a contract that dates from 2018. Madam Minister, it was therefore your predecessor, Steven Vandeput, who awarded a contract to the company Katoen Natie for logistical services of the Defence (individual equipment, spare parts, etc.) Minister, what does this contract consist of in terms of services provided to the Department of Defence? More broadly, do you intend to undertake further outsourcing for other services? This is already being done in some barracks, particularly in the canteens. I know that this subject has been debated and that some of my colleagues did not fully agree on the way forward. I personally believe that, if the service is rendered efficiently, it must be possible to do so, because it obviously also brings an entire economic dimension to certain areas which sometimes need it. Here's my question, Mr. President! I've exceeded my speaking time by 22 seconds, but I like to speak. We're parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u4	Madam Secretary, on behalf of our Open Group, I would like to welcome you. I'm new to the committee myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u5	You were there last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u6	Indeed, today is not the first meeting in which I am taking part.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u7	Mr Pillen, I can assure you that you will be here soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u8	Thanks for that! Madam Minister, like my fellow Members, I look forward to a very good cooperation, which I am sure will come about. Mr President, I also hope for good cooperation between the political groups across party boundaries. The challenges facing Defence and its staff are too important to play political games about them. Madam Minister, I, too, have tabled a few questions on the cooperation between the Defence and Cotton Nation. I suppose I do not need to repeat all my questions, because many of them are similar to questions from previous speakers. My questions mainly focus on staff. Madam Secretary, what happens to the people who have been active in the MilShops so far? Where will they be employed? What is the impact of cooperation on staff? I also have questions about the delivery of the items stored in Beringen, and about their level of security. I have read that, for example, there are no dangerous military products there, but even with a uniform the necessary vigilance must be observed. How exactly does that work? As far as delivery is concerned, there is the Fitbus. Can you explain that concept? In what way will there be cooperation with private courier services, which will supply military equipment to the military? I have not yet heard the last question from colleagues. The contract was concluded in 2018 and runs until 2030. When is the first evaluation planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to join my group and colleagues in congratulating you on your new role. Minister, the non-military equipment will now be stored in a warehouse at Katoen Natie in Paal, Limburg. Katoen Natie will also offer an online shop where soldiers can order their equipment. Because of years of austerity in defence and the retirement of many military personnel, it appears that there is no money to manage these tasks internally. However, a contract of EUR 150 million was concluded over ten years, amounting to EUR 15 million per year. Katoen Natie is a company renowned for working mainly with temporary workers and daytime contracts. It also engages in social dumping by employing workers from Southern and Eastern Europe. For a long time now, trade unions in the transport sector have been denouncing what is happening in this company. Nor is it a secret that the company's boss, Fernand Huts, opposes social consultation and is often in conflict with trade unions. Minister, how much would it cost Defence itself to store non-military equipment? Do you find it acceptable for a public institution such as Defence to use public money to pay Katoen Natie, Despite this company's bad reputation in terms of social rights? Has the Defence demanded from Katoen Natie certain staff guarantees? I am thinking here of open-ended contracts and respect for social consultation. Do you not think that logistics management of materiel is one of the main tasks of Defence and that savings should not be made in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u10	Mr. Chair, Minister, it has been several years since Defence outsourced certain functions and tasks. In 2018, Defence Minister Steven Vandeput had entered into a contract with Katoen Natie for the implementation of logistics services for defence equipment in particular. Minister, what is the status of the system in place? Have you been able to consult staff on this issue to take stock of this experience? Can you tell us if new outsourcing contracts are currently planned for Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u11	Are there any colleagues who would like to join us? Mr Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u12	Madam Minister, first of all, good courage in the task ahead! The issue of outsourcing is indeed a central issue. One of the colleagues who has just arrived said a word: I believe that an evaluation of the outsourcing situation should be carried out. Indeed, as Mr D'Amico said, it will be important to find a balance. In the government statement, it is mentioned that Defence will have to become a tool for employment, in coordination with local actors, including Forem, Actiris and VDAB. Some military personnel may need to be reassigned to certain tasks. As a third colleague said, evaluation is important. We did it in other areas. This was the case in the Room also with restaurants. This often costs much more. At first the bride is very beautiful. The services are very interesting. And as time goes on, when we get away from the conclusion of the first contract, things don't look as well. But when we get close to the second contract, things become good again. The first thing to do is probably an assessment of the situation, perhaps to reorient and update certain things. The question to be asked is: Is an evaluation planned today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. I hope that we will be able to work constructively during the exercise of my mandate. Of course, I remain at the disposal of the Members of Parliament. I myself was in your place a few weeks ago, and I know that it is really important to be able to have a privileged contact. Of course, I remain available, Mr. President. I will take the time it takes to be able to answer the questions of the various members in full transparency. With regard to your various questions, ladies Jadin and Song, some activities have already been outsourced over time, such as domestic cleaning and maintenance of different materials. Tasks that require no military experience and can be performed more effectively by the civilian sector are gradually outsourced. These include territorial services such as horeca activities, guarding and maintaining infrastructure, industrial maintenance of weapons systems, storage and distribution of equipment, clothing and equipment. Military reactions are generally positive, as the level of service is good and the military itself can focus on operational activities and tasks. Ms Ponthier, in implementing the strategic vision, the Defence Department has decided to outsource various services that do not require specific military knowledge. This is the case, for example, for the storage and distribution of spare parts, clothing and personal equipment of the soldiers, for which a contract was concluded with Katoen Natie. For materials that need to be available immediately for operations, this will still be done on its own. In addition to a limited team of some twenty Defence staff on the website of Katoen Natie in Beringen for the follow-up of the contract, the cost of the contract for a period of 1 year amounts to 161 million euros, resulting in cost savings of more than 15% for the same period. Mr D'Amico, you had a question about respect for social rights. Every company participating in a public contract declares without reservation that the various basic conventions of the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, are respected. We are talking about freedom of association, the freedom to negotiate, the abolition of forced labour, non-discrimination and equal pay for work, the elimination of child labour and a ban on forms of child labour. Respect for social legislation and child labour legislation are therefore mandatory rules in the implementation of the agreement, which Cotton Nation also formally endorses. The contract also endorsed commitments on sustainable development and social responsibility. This contract mainly involves outsourcing of territorial logistics services. Defense certainly doesn't intend to spend logistics management in its entirety. Certain logistical management activities in the field of management and implementation remain an exclusive responsibility of Defence. Mr Pillen, the project will be fully operational during the first half of 2022. As mentioned above, a limited team of some twenty employees of Defence will be responsible for the follow-up of the contract on the Beringen site. Several studies were organised by DG HR in order to know the wishes of the staff on the various sites. In this way, an appropriate solution was found for everyone. As regards the safety of goods and the screening of personnel, Katoen Natie had to obtain a security clearance. This was controlled by the Industrial Security Service of the General Intelligence and Security Directorate. In addition, all persons with access to certain data were subject to personal security verification, including staff involved in the development of the webshop. In addition to specific IT security requirements, access to the webshop will be done through a strong authentication based on a login with the eID. The distribution of the equipment is carried out by courier services operated by Katoen Natie. Currently these are Corner Guards for the distribution of palettes and GLS for the dispatch of packages. The Fitbus will be operational from April/May 2021 and will move to different quarters. In this way, every soldier will have the opportunity to fit his clothes before placing an order on the webshop. The Fitbus will run entirely on staff from Katoen Natie who has received a textile training. In view of the long duration of the contract, an annual evaluation is planned during which the current and future functioning of the contract will be evaluated. During the implementation phase of the project until mid 2022, several contractual Milestones will be identified as the subject of a thorough evaluation based on pre-defined criteria. Here's my answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u14	Madam Secretary, you confirmed a number of things, including the result of a transformation in the field of logistical support and services in the Defence Department. That is in itself a good evolution, generally speaking. A healthy interaction between private partners and Defence, as we see here, must always be envisaged and made possible. This fits in with the Defence 2.0 plan and the global future plan of Defence. In this respect, our group has no concerns whatsoever. There's something I need to get off my chest, though. The PS Group, which are your party colleagues - tabled a motion for a resolution on the HR evolution in Parliament at the beginning of this year. In it, she explicitly asked for the outsourcing of services to be limited to the maximum, not to use them to the maximum, and to keep the know-how in the Defense Department, which is self-evident. At that time, the Flemish Interest Group opposed this by stating that Defence should just seek maximum possibilities of outsourcing, where possible and desirable. I do not know to what extent the vision you have just outlined corresponds to your group's resolution. In any case, we shall look forward to the evaluation in this regard. You did not mention the criteria for the evaluation, so we will have to look into that point. In any case, we look forward to the forthcoming evaluation of the cooperation agreement in question and the global future plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u15	(...) Personally, I am delighted. With regard to the reforms in the area of outsourcing of services, you also intend to extend the line that has been put in place, repeating that this is a measure clearly seen by military personnel. This reassures me and goes without saying that as new contracts emerge, we will have the opportunity – at least, I hope – to play our full supervisory role in order to ensure that these contracts are properly executed on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very full reply. I noticed that you really answered all the questions very punctually. Everyone of us is happy to do that. I look forward to seeing how you will deal with the important issue of outsourcing in your policy paper. I support this approach in principle, for the sake of clarity, but it is good that you develop the vision further and that there is a strategy behind it, so that it does not end up with all kinds of ad hoc applications, now in Beringen, next time in another 15 minutes, and next time somewhere else. There must be a vision, there must be a strategy. I therefore hope that you will pay due attention to this in your policy letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u17	Minister, I am pleased to hear that there will be annual monitoring of the quality of services. On the other hand, I am sorry to hear you speak of a control over the quality of workers' work. You said they respected a charter, but I'd like to hear more from you. In the press, it can be said that the working conditions of these people are deplorable, so I would have liked to hear a much more virulent answer as to the defence of the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u18	I apologise for your reply in Dutch. Without making a virulent response at this stage, I will of course be careful to ensure that the social clauses are respected. I obviously share this concern. I'm not going to make a judgment here. We have put the guarantees in place, but I will follow this case in particular in response to your request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u19	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and detailed response. I see good cooperation between the various partners, which is part of the overall plan for the future of Defence, which we have already discussed at length in committee. What we need is a balance. We have heard my colleague mention the Socialist Party's motion for a resolution, which I am in favour of. Indeed, I believe that a limitation on outsourcing can be envisaged as it responds to a healthy balance that must be struck between our expertise in our Defence, and what can be outsourced. I'll be careful, I don't think we should outsource everything. We need to manage our skills, our staff and our defence as a good father. I have no doubt about your management at this level, minister. You have all my confidence. You mentioned an evaluation, which I welcome. I hope we can get it pretty quickly. I look forward to your policy statement so that we can discuss at length the projects on which we can work together for the future of Defence. I hope you will be able to help us work on the various pillars and pivots, of which we have already discussed a great deal. Now we have to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u20	Mr Flahaut, according to the strict reading of the Rules of Procedure, I am no longer able to give you the floor, but I am naturally happy to give you the floor in the context of good cooperation across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u21	Mr. President, you're doing what you want. We'll see, but I'd rather make statements here than outside. I would just like to say that the resolution that was tabled by the Socialist Party is a resolution that has not been exclusively supported by the Socialist Party. The resolution is indeed a product of Parliament, and it is probably for this reason that many elements of this resolution, which has been implemented by Parliament as a whole and after discussion, can be found in the government declaration. That seems important to me. Moreover, in order to define a strategic vision for the future, it seems to me that the logic is to arrive at something balanced and to carry out an evaluation. You don't just have to say that we're going to do what we used to do. The world has changed. Budgetary resources are probably limited. A good evaluation is therefore what must precede the definition or redefinition of a balanced outsourcing policy. That is what was also contained in the resolution as adopted by Parliament. I think we had to say that again. I have a great deal of respect for Parliament, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u22	Mr President, Minister, Operation Vigilant Guardian provides for the monitoring of sensitive areas in its own country, in support of the federal police. Since the end of 2019, a phasing-out plan of OVG has been announced and prepared by your predecessors, but until now a global agreement has been reached between all the actors involved. The fact that there was no government with full authority also caused some delay in decision-making. Following numerous announcements, it was decided to have the relevant sites secured by the police again by September 2020 at the latest. At the end of August, however, the government decided once again to postpone the matter. October 2020 was now the new deadline for phasing out. In the meantime, there is a government with full authority. The coalition agreement, at least in the formation note, states: "The military presence on the street is immediately phased out. This takes into account the staffing capacity of the federal police, the impact on local police and the development of the new Security Directorate within the federal police." Madam Secretary, this is starting to look like a nevending story. What is the current state of progress on the phasing-out plan? Your predecessor, Mr Goffin, said that this was a task for the new government. In the meantime, is there an overall agreement on the phasing-out of OVG? When do you plan to stop or re-evaluate the OVG and adjust it if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary, congratulations on your appointment. If I have properly informed you, you have not been so much expertise in this domain, but I assume you will be working on it soon. The people of the general staff have already received you and will certainly brief you on the great pain points and challenges for the future. The legacy you're getting from the previous government is no less. In terms of investment and equipment, many steps have been taken in the right direction, but there are enormous challenges ahead in terms of staff. I look forward to discussing with you over the next few years how we can strengthen our defence. Operationally, we often have a good reputation internationally, despite the many challenges, and I hope that we can maintain them and ensure strong defence in the future. You will always find a partner in the N-VA. The N-VA is known, especially in Flanders, as a party that invests heavily in Defense, who tries to listen a lot to the basis and who works hard in Parliament on that theme. We will continue to do so in the years to come. You know that. I wish you every success. We're gonna have a lot of conversations. We may not always agree, but let us try to improve and strengthen that policy by consensus. I wish the head of the cabinet and the team in the cabinet good luck too. I know putting together a cabinet isn't easy. They are very hectic days, on which one sometimes wants to hear a yes, but gets a no. I wish you every success in the composition of a good cabinet, which is mainly a task of the head of the cabinet. Good luck with your firm's constitution. On this issue, I must agree with what Mrs Ponthier has said. Madam Secretary, what about the OVG? Many parties absolutely want this to end as soon as possible. Our party has always taken a more nuanced position on this, because we have for years delivered the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. It is important that the security of crucial safety points in our society remains guaranteed. This includes the sites of synagogues of the Jewish community, nuclear sites and others. What exactly is your plan? For the N-VA, it is important to ensure the security of these crucial points. We've been through a lot with the attacks. Let us learn from this that we cannot leave certain crucial points in our society unattended. We can't do that. So what's your plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, at our last sittings here in committee, I had been able to question your predecessor on a number of occasions. On the occasion of our last exchange, he replied that he would leave it to the next government to decide on the interruption of the operation. In the declaration of the new government, it is stated that "the military presence on the streets will be gradually and immediately abolished". So, are you considering a specific schedule for the withdrawal of military personnel from the streets and the end of this mission? Is consultation envisaged with the Minister of the Interior in order to measure the impact of the end of the mission on strategic places that require greater security, as my colleague Theo Francken has just recalled, but also on the local police and the areas more affected by the end of this mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u25	Mr President, Defence and the Federal Police have drawn up a phasing-out plan with a guarantee of maintaining the level of security. The Federal Police Commissioner-General presented that phasing-out plan to the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security in October 2019 and again in February 2020. The contract OVG is currently being renewed monthly. For Defence, the OVG is a conditional operation, which is therefore part of the global file Operations 2021, which is still to be submitted to the government. I can already point out that a debate will be held at the hearing of the Head of Defence on 21 October, in the presence of representatives of the Federal Police and the Minister of the Interior. The OVG withdrawal plan will then be discussed again in the Strategic Intelligence and Security Committee and the National Security Council. The political talks will thus start this month in order to progressively reduce the military presence on the streets, as included in the coalition agreement. Defence stands ready to implement this withdrawal plan in practice as soon as the political agreement is received.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u26	I can indeed confirm that we are organising a hearing next week by appointment. The Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, the Chief of the Antwerp Police Zone, a representative of Defence and a representative of the Cabinet will be present. So we will certainly continue to work on the subject in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u27	The delay on delay is starting to get a little uncomfortable. This has already been the case for all your predecessors, and I hope that it will not be for you and that you will not again, like your predecessor, become the plaything of the Minister of Home Affairs. You must also take account of maximum social consultation in this area. I am not a trade union advocate, but they have really made their voice heard in this matter. They have said that they have had enough of the mission as such and certainly of the lack of implementation and competence framework in this area. The soldiers on the streets have little or no powers on the streets, unlike the police, who can do better. We therefore urgently need to consult with the trade unions and certainly with the Minister for the Interior. We have a hearing on this next week. There will probably be a lot of problems on the ground. They are also there for the Defense Department, such as the fact that training opportunities are being lost due to a lack of staff and resources. A decision must be taken very urgently. We are following the issue very closely, as in the past year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u28	It is logical that there should be a political agreement before there is any termination or termination of the contract. It won't be that easy. I do have some connections in Antwerp and I understand that it is not so obvious that the local zone would just take over. There are many challenges, such as the staff to be deployed. There's a mix-up of drugs in there, too. This requires a great deal of effort from the police and security services. Security is a priority for us. The safety of nuclear sites, synagogues and Jewish schools is a priority. The government needs to secure those places. We have experienced too much in Europe and here too in recent years. There were the attacks at the airport in Zaventem in the Flemish-Brabant constituency, where I was elected. That's a scar. That's a trauma for a lot of people. In this sense, ensuring security is a priority for us. I understand that the Defence Department does not want to take up this task anymore; I understand that it drives the unions crazy; I understand that a lot of soldiers prefer not to guarantee patrols on the streets anymore. I fully understand that, but safety is a priority for our group. I hope that you will soon be able to conclude an agreement which will allow local police or other police forces to take over this task. If such sites are left unattended and something goes wrong, then the political responsibility of the government is crushing. We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that you will get a political agreement as soon as possible, so that you will be able to present the military withdrawal implementation plan in a timely manner. Secondly, I recommend that you - if not already done, consult the unions - because they have very interesting things to tell us about this operation, in particular about the conditions of the soldiers operating on the street. I did it last year and what I heard surprised me. Moreover, that is the reason why I asked you about the schedule that we would need to get quickly. Indeed, we must put an end to this mission as soon as possible, since its conclusion is postponed from month to month, as you pointed out. We know that this is a problem. We therefore hope that you will be able to reach a political agreement very soon, although I know the difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u30	To be continued, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is now well known that the ageing population and the collapse of the defence sector are rising at a rapid pace. Defense is in transition and cooperates at all levels to counter this. Other initiatives, such as the recent Camp Waes TV programme, can also contribute to increased awareness and attractiveness for Defence in general. For example, the Circle of Friends Para-Commando Menen recently developed Project Cadet, an initiative that aims to encourage young people to train as paracommand. We read that Defence is apparently enthusiastic about the initiative and is considering introducing it in other regions as well. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. In what way is Defense currently directly involved in this initiative? How does Defense evaluate the Project Cadet developed by the Friend Circle Para-Commando Menen? Is it true that the Defense Department is considering introducing such initiatives in other regions as well? How will this be organised if necessary? Will Defense proactively act and contact the other 25 regional departments of the paracommand friends for this or encourage them to take such initiatives?If so, have concrete steps already been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, the Project Cadet is a local initiative of the Amicale Nationale Para-Commando Vriendenkring. At the invitation of the ANPCV, the Bruges Information Centre explained the recruitment, job vacancies and a career at Defense, mainly focused on the Special Operations Regiment. As Defense is not involved in the Project Ensign, the activity cannot be evaluated by the Defense Department. No concrete steps were taken to implement this in other regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. That is somewhat regrettable. It is a good initiative that could help achieve the objective set out in the coalition agreement, in particular that the government should use a recapitalisation in the field of personnel to make the military profession more attractive. I think it's time for the DOD to step outside. We are already doing so in many areas, but I believe that this initiative can serve as an example to initialise a flanking policy in this area and thus recruit young people and encourage them to pursue a career in Defence. It could be a great help to get Defense more out there and to inform young people on the ground about a career in Defense, so I am sorry that Defence does not react proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u34	Mr President, Minister, a number of reports on social media indicate that there are problems in providing the full equipment to candidate officers in good time after their arrival at Saffronberg in Sint-Truiden. Perhaps the first question today can bring some relief on this, if the problem does indeed arise in the logistics field. It mentions the fact that even two weeks after arrival the persons concerned would not have the full equipment available. I would like to ask you a number of specific questions. Are you aware of the problem? I suppose so. Is this a structural problem? If so, at what level does it fail? Is it a logistics or a communication problem? Is it a financial problem? What will you do to ensure that candidate officers will be able to have their full equipment available immediately after their arrival in Saffronberg so that they can carry out their duties to the full?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u35	Minister, on her Facebook page, the military union ACMP-CGPM issued on September 30th that two weeks after their arrival in Saffranberg, NCO candidates had still not received their full equipment. The union also stated that some candidates were wearing civilian clothes, according to their comments. Minister, are you aware of these difficulties? From the moment we know in advance the number of candidates who will enter school, how can we be faced with such a situation? Can you shed some light on the circumstances that gave rise to this problem? Do you therefore have a solution so that this does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u36	In mid-September, more than 600 recruits were recruited in three different locations in one week, and not only in the school of the Petty Officers on the Campus Saffronberg. A combination of different circumstances, mainly related to the transition to the new distribution centre, resulted in the equipment not being made available in time. It is therefore not a structural problem and Defence will do what is necessary to avoid this situation in the future. The high volume of incorporations as a result of the resumption of incorporations after the breakdown, technical problems related to the IT system and the transfer of the stock of equipment to the new distribution centre, which had not yet been completed, are at the root of the difficulties encountered. Every effort has been made to ensure that the problems encountered during this transition phase do not recur in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u37	Madam Minister, it is good to hear that it is not a structural problem. It may seem to some to be a failure diverse or a detail, but you, I and everyone here know that for a military wearing military clothing is a matter of honor and gives a real feeling of being a full part of Defense. I therefore hope that the transition in the field of logistics will be corrected quickly or better than at present. I understand that the large number of recruits, which in itself is positive, may have caused a temporary problem. I do not know if it has been corrected at this time in Saffronberg, I hope so. If that is not the case, I hope that will happen soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u38	Minister, I am pleased to hear that this is not a structural problem and that Defence has already put in place a whole series of measures to prevent this from happening again. I hope that the people concerned have received their equipment. I see you're holding your head to confirm it. I welcome this and thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u39	Madam Minister, on behalf of our group, Mrs Ponthier has already done so, in all modesty, I welcome you to our committee and wish you every success in your mandate. Let me come to the order of the day. In the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia about Artsach, the Armenian name for Nagorno-Karabakh, an Armenian SU-25 was brought down on 23 September by a Turkish F-16 who had ascended from Azerbaijan. In addition, the pilot was killed. Meanwhile, there has been a number of events, such as artillery shootings, which claimed mutual victims. Last night I got the news that an Azerbaijani SU-25 and a Turkish F-16 would have been shot. In my question, I said that the conflict is threatening to escalate, and it appears that it is already happening. Madam Secretary, what position does our country take on the conflict? As Turkey is becoming increasingly involved and in the light of Article 5 of the Washington Convention, I would have liked to know what attitude our country will adopt if Turkey requests assistance. I do not need to explain to you that, given Tehran's Turkish involvement and warning of a wider conflict, there is a fear of further destabilisation of the region there, the South Caucasus. I'm also referring to taking down a drone that crashed near the border. Russia may also intervene more actively, but not only with peace-keeping forces. What are the potential consequences for our troops abroad, more specifically for the troops and missions in which I shall mention it euphemistically, if military contact with Russia is possible? Do you have diplomatic contacts with the fighting parties on the one hand and the larger players, such as Russia, Tehran and Turkey on the other? What are the results of these diplomatic contacts, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u40	Minister, this commission also provides us with an opportunity to address the international issues in which our country can be involved, from close to or by far. We know that, despite the requests for a ceasefire, the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the Nagorny Karabakh region has continued since 27 September. I learned with surprise – and that's what motivated my question – that Canada had discovered that components from the L3Harris WESCAM group had been used during this conflict. Minister, what about the transfer of technology or weapons from our army to Azerbaijan? My second question is rather about foreign affairs, but I am sure that you will also be able to answer it: have arms contracts or technology transfers been concluded between our country and Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u41	Mr President, allow me to speak. It seems to me that this issue was introduced at the time when the Minister of Defence was the same as the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u42	Technically, that is not possible, because only questions could be put to the new government. The questions have been asked, however, that there is a military component in them. I suggest that the Minister responds to questions relating to defence-related issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u43	Mr Flahaut, I think the minister is big enough to tell me whether or not this is within her jurisdiction. Minister, I repeat that if there are really elements that you do not think you can raise here for other reasons, I will gladly hear them on the Foreign Missions Monitoring Committee. My cooperation is complete, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u44	I appreciate the fact that people want to protect me! Mr Franken, do not hesitate, this kind of gesture is always welcome!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u47	It was still a missile from the N-VA to the MR via the PS! Bravo!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u48	Colleagues, before it gets embarrassing, I suggest that the Minister responds to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u49	The F16 incident is currently part of the battle of narratives between the parties involved in the conflict. It is premature to make a ruling on Turkish involvement in this dossier. The Belgian position in the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan is determined by the government and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So this is not within the competence of the Defense Department. Article 5 of the NATO Charter can only be invoked by a NATO Member State when it concerns an attack on its own territory. Turkey has not so far provoked this. The conflict that has so far had no impact on our troops abroad. The diplomatic contacts with the various stakeholders in this dossier are also the responsibility of the Foreign Affairs Office. The granting of export licences for arms and related technologies by Belgian companies is a competence of the Regions. Defence has not entered into any contracts to provide arms to the parties involved in the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. There is no demand from them for Belgian Defence to provide arms and/or associated technologies. We have no view of the arms contracts Turkey may possibly have with the countries involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u50	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply after the piece of mansplaining by the eminent colleague Flahaut. Madam Minister, I understand that a number of things do not fall within your competence, but as far as I am concerned, it is quite clear - and I think you will agree with that - that the warring parties should rather be separated by every means possible. But when it comes to it, we must dare to support the Armenian-Christian community in that region. Not only with words, but when it comes to action as well. Especially when we have to observe that, I would like to say, the Turkish sultan has publicly supported the equally authoritarian Azerbaijan and does not even deter the use of jihadis from Libya and Syria in the fight. I may be a bit naughty now, but it seems very much like Erdogan's Turkey is making another attempt to wipe the Armenian people and Armenia off the map, where its ancestors have not succeeded. The question is how far we are from a new genocide on the Armenian people. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that our country will openly and clearly condemn Turkey. I hope that we will actively protect the Armenian-Christian population if necessary. I hope, Madam Minister, that by not taking action we will not later be accused of guilty negligence, because this time we will not be able to say that we did not know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u51	Minister, I will follow the advice of my colleague, Mr Flahaux, and confine myself strictly to your answer. For the rest, I will address the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, in an interview with De Zondag, published on 20 September 2020, the president of the ACMP stated that our army is about to become a ghost army, due to a shortage of personnel. You are undoubtedly aware of the problem. He not only cited the known figures of net outflow, but also the fact that more and more experienced soldiers between 30 and 40 years of age break their contract on their own initiative, because they are tired of the misery within Defense." Defence acknowledged, in response to the interview, that efforts are needed in terms of working conditions, the working environment and the means of work, if this phenomenon is to be tackled. Madam Minister, what action has been taken and implemented in this respect? What are the results of the measures taken? What concrete measures are still planned in the short and medium term? How real is the risk that current and/or future operations will no longer be possible due to this HR problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u53	Mr Creyelman, DG HR is currently working on a number of initiatives that will improve working conditions in the statutory and financial fields. Several initiatives have already been taken by previous Defence Ministers, including the voluntary function allowance, the reduced housing costs for some staff, the fee for data communications and the grant of an English knowledge allowance. In the long term, further initiatives will be taken to improve the statutory and financial framework. In addition, the Ministry of Defence is fully committed to recruiting military and civilian personnel to reduce staff shortages. Several projects were launched to improve infrastructure in order to improve working conditions. Satellite work and teleworking are being expanded, for the services where possible. Various investments in equipment are ongoing, allowing staff to work with better, more modern and sufficient equipment. All these actions will help to improve working conditions, the working environment and resources for Defence personnel. Defence will also do everything in its power to ensure that the operations are carried out with military personnel who are properly prepared for the tasks they are required to carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u54	Madam Minister, I must admit that I am surprised by the concreteness of your answer. Usually when I ask such questions to your colleagues, the answer is somewhat woollier. Your answer surprises me and pleases me very much. That is the reality. The only thing missing from your answer is the answer to the question about the results of the actions you have already taken. Another Member referred to the resolution on HR policy, which, if I am not mistaken, was adopted in the Chamber on 9 July 2020. All the groups voted in favour, except for one, who abstained. Madam Secretary, I suspect that, now that your party, the PS, is in the government and she is with you supplying the Minister of Defence, it will not remain in words. I hope, together with the members of defence and probably with you, that we will not only look at words, but that we will soon be able to expect very concrete actions and actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u55	Since the expression of threats is covered by civil criminal law, complaints are filed and handled through civil channels. The Department of Defense is not authorized to deal with or follow up these complaints. Defence has replaced mechanisms to cooperate with the police and the police in this area, but the content of a complaint itself is unknown to us. If a military victim has become a threat, he may rely on a number of specialised bodies within the organisation, such as the Centre for Crisis Psychology, the services for moral and religious assistance, the social services of Defence or the internal services for prevention and protection at work, the department for psychosocial aspects. Defence shall inform the personnel who are to depart on the basis of these specialized bodies and on cooperation with the public prosecutor and with the police. As far as foreign operations are concerned, the personal data of military personnel participating in an operation are kept on the secure servers of the Defense Department. This information is not accessible to unauthorised persons and is not shared. For the rest, I would refer you to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you. As satisfied as I was with the previous answer, this answer rather disappoints me, I must admit. You gave me the impression that I was not fully aware of the fact that soldiers are threatened in the conduct of certain operations such as Vigilant Guardian. Later in your reply, you nuded this, because you are indirectly aware of the fact that people are using internal services, if I understand correctly. You could have answered me perfectly how many people have called on the internal specialised services in that context. That's where I'm gonna sit on my hunger, I have to admit. As far as the follow-up of these dossiers is concerned, it seems to me to be all right, but I would have liked some more specific answers, but I will ask a follow-up question for that. I know this is where the separation of powers takes place, but I hope that it is up to you, together with me, to do that the perpetrators are severely punished. However, I also hope that you will do everything in your power to ensure that the people who take care of our safety can do their job in all possible safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u57	Madam Minister, I think it is very important to pay due respect to our associations of former paracommands and veterans in the coming years. I have seen that you have been to the monument of the unknown soldier and that you have done a ceremony there. I think that's a very nice and noble signal to do that as one of the first assignments. I appreciate that very much. I think it is also necessary to pay more attention to this. I think we've done a lot. In the context of 100 years of Great War there have been commemorations. A number of cemeteries were neatly put in order. There was an investment. There are 40 questions today. A number of questions are about degeneration and insufficient attention to this issue. I had a question earlier about a place in East Flanders. I see that there is absolutely no attention for General Piron's grave either. It is very important that we speak with sufficient respect about our veterans and former paracommands. This is about a limited incident about an artwork in the Africa Museum to form a counter-image, in which the Belgian paracommand units are removed as oppressors on a one-sided basis. The truth has different sides. It is right that they feel angry about this. Madam Secretary, has Defense been in touch with the Africa Museum? You know there has been a lot to do about this. There is also a Congo Commission active in Parliament. This is a very sensitive issue. Putting the whites and especially the military away as oppressors and people who have never done anything right, I also think of our missionaries, will never do the N-VA. It's more nuanced than that. We are also actively participating in that committee, and we will continue to do so. It is good that this is happening, but we must not skip from one side, where colonialism was glorified, to the other side, where nothing good was never done by white people in Africa. That's not true. Madam Secretary, what will happen to make this right? I think this is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u58	Minister, you will not have escaped the fact that the associations of former commandos and veterans react bitterly to the new museographic staging of the Africamuseum. I myself was able to visit this museum recently with the special Congo commission and I was able to discuss this issue with our guests. I am not going to recontextualise; my colleague Franken has done so and I will not repeat his remarks, since he has been sufficiently thorough. I'll just come to my questions. I think this controversy must stop and we must be able to provide answers to these veterans out of respect. I would like to know, Madam Minister, whether Defence has been contacted by these associations and whether you have been able to provide an answer to them, either yourself or your predecessor. Has there also been any contact with the museum? It is known that associations are finally considering legal proceedings. I think it would be best to avoid it. Can mediation be envisaged with the various actors in this controversy? I think there could also be a consultation with our new minister in charge of federal institutions. Even though I understand the new staging and museography, I believe that we must not repeat the story and not disrespect certain actors in it. I think that consultation with all actors would be very important. I hope you will be able to give a concrete answer to my various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u59	Defence was indeed contacted by the mentioned association, through a copy of the writing of its spokesman. In August, my predecessor informed the association that the Chamber of Representatives set up a special committee to examine, alongside the independent state of Congo, the colonial past, the role and impact of the Belgian state in Congo. The Minister of Defence was also asked to inform the Minister of Defence of any reply to the letter. To date, there is no reply or reply from the Director of the AfricaMuseum and no discussions were held or planned with the Minister responsible for science policy. The Defence is awaiting the final report of the Special Commission and will at that time decide whether intervention is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We'll follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will continue to follow the case in Congo committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u62	Madam Minister, as far as our group is concerned, we now come to the most important question of this sitting, and that is why I asked for a topical debate on this, because it is crucial to have clear figures on this. During the inquiry debate, you were apologized for personal reasons, Madam Minister, so I have no choice but to respect that. Mr Buysrogge and I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers for clarity on the budgetary trajectory and the budgetary framework for defence for the coming years. It has not been clarified in any way, either by the Prime Minister or by the leader of the political group Lachaert, who was always present in the negotiations, or by any other member of the majority. That is, of course, very sad, because it is difficult to cook without money. The previous CHOD, Mr Compernol, had asked EUR 2.4 billion for this legislature. The government is committed to moving towards the average NATO contribution of the European non-nuclear NATO Member States by 2030. However, people must not be fooled: the government says it wants to achieve this by 2030, but it will not do so until the next legislature, in 2025. That's how people are fooled, of course. My question is therefore relatively clear, Madam Minister. What is the budgetary framework? It is good in itself that the investment plan is maintained, but what else is there? There are great ambitions and things that are absolutely necessary. I hear an amount of EUR 64 million next year, EUR 200 million in 2022, 2023 and 2024. All together, therefore, there would be 664 million euros. I asked for this, but I didn't get an answer. That is correct, because EUR 664 million is quite far from EUR 2.4 billion. It will be difficult to allocate that full sum, because General Compernol has asked a great deal, which, of course, may be. What is more, this money will be used for precisely, because the challenges are huge and without money it will not succeed. You know that, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u63	Mr President, Minister, the previous speaker has already said that this is the key question which makes each of us look forward to a concrete answer. I also asked this specific question during the inquiry debate last week in the European Parliament. There was no answer to that at the time. I regret that. You were there when the questions were asked, as were the Prime Minister. No specific answer was given to any question at that time. I find that very regrettable. The government sees security as one of the priority axes, according to the coalition agreement. That is, of course, commendable. It is immediately stated that, in general, EUR 1 billion would be allocated to security. I hope you will confirm or contradict this shortly. The discussion of the coalition agreement was therefore far from optimal. Answers to the questions asked were not forthcoming. There was no room for thematic debates either. Mr President, that is why I have also asked you to hold an exchange of views in this committee on the priorities set by Defence, what budgets are linked to them and so on. To date, however, I have not received an answer to that question either. Madam Minister, I therefore ask you to explain the budgetary framework for defence as a result of the new coalition agreement. EUR 1 billion would be earmarked to optimise the overall security policy. How much of these resources is provided for the Defence Department? After all, safety is a very broad concept. I see that justice is linked to that, too. Given the challenges facing that policy area, I do not know what this distribution will look like. You said in one of your first speeches that the recruitment of new soldiers and the modernisation of Defence become priorities in your policy. As you said, both the places where the military are employed, the military infrastructure and the equipment are up to an upgrade, can you make this concrete here in this committee? Can you provide a breakdown in this respect with regard to the related budgetary resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u64	Madam Minister, I would like to support the questions raised by my fellow Members. It is a pity that we have not been able to have the debate. When the subject was raised at night in the plenary session of the European Parliament, my group was only in order to be able to hold these thematic debates. It could have given us a chance to go deeper into that, but we are doing it now through questions. Perhaps not all questions can be answered today, but we can discuss them in a good way over the next few weeks, either through questions or through an exchange of views on the policy letters. Indeed, some wordings still require clarification. As far as the budget is concerned, three statements have created uncertainty for me in the last two weeks. I do not like to be unclear; things have to be clear to me. On investment versus the recurrent expenditure that will be made extra for Defence, there was first of all Mr Lachaert's statement in the European Parliament, but pre-former, on behalf of his party, not on behalf of the government - that funds will be allocated to investment, but that there will still have to be a little waiting for recurrent expenditure until the budget is really knocked off. I specifically interviewed him about this, because his statement set off all the alarm bells and created a great deal of concern for me. In Villa Politica, Mrs De Bleeker, the new Secretary of State, said, when questioned, that all members of the government would have to make savings. I can imagine that this will come up against some resistance from the defence staff. What is your position on this? Can you indicate whether Defense will also be part of the global savings exercise? Where do you see opportunities for cutting in the defense budget? How will you respond to the question put by the Secretary of State for the Budget? Finally, there was your statement at the inauguration of the A400M in Melsbroek. You then stated that in the future, Defense will have modern individual equipment for each soldier and a state-of-the-art equipment for each part of the army. We fully endorse those words. How will you realize that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u65	Mr President, the government underlines the continuation and updating of the strategic vision for Defence and the military programming law. In doing so, it is the ambition to align the defence effort with the European non-nuclear NATO alliance by 2030. The basis for this is the determined policy of the previous government, as translated into the reports of the Monitoring Committee. It is premature today to say that the defence sector will have to participate or not participate in the budgetary effort. In general terms, expenditure as included in the Monitoring Committee's report is distributed on average as follows: 36% for staff, 28% for operation and 36% for investment in equipment and infrastructure. The recapitalisation of the staff involves not only increased recruitment and competitive remuneration, but also the provision of modern and sufficient equipment as well as adequate equipment, an attractive working environment and balanced regional integration with a good work-life balance. In addition, it will be examined whether some infrastructure expenditure can be entered in the inter-federal investment plan. The resources earmarked for optimising the overall security policy are, in principle, earmarked for federal police and justice. I know you're not going to like or please this answer. Budget discussions are still at the government stage. So I ask you two or three weeks of patience. I promise you that we will be able to have this debate here in committee, but unfortunately for the moment I cannot give you any more details. I'm sorry, too. I would like to be able to answer you more precisely, but at this stage I suggest that you postpone this discussion in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u66	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I fully understand that. You're new, you don't know the file in itself, you're working fast, and I'm hoping this will work. But again, cooking costs money. You don't tell me you're suddenly gonna pull billions out of your hat. The budget schedule was knocked off during the negotiations. It was embarrassing, of which we got a leaf with 39 lines. I was supposedly coming from a kindergarten because I dared to make a comment on that. Although it was justified, the Prime Minister thought I should be put in my place. But that was out of the question because he himself was completely wrong. I'm still waiting for an apology for that swing, by the way, but I'll record that with him. You have nothing to do with that. It is quite clear that there is no provision for additional structural recurrent resources for the defence sector. It is for Security and Justice. Of course, our party supports that. But not for the DOD. I had heard that there were 200 million additional investments per year in 2022, 2023 and 2024 and 64 million next year. You're not saying anything about that. You say that you will see whether there is still room for savings in the defence sector or whether the defence sector can benefit from an exception from Mrs De Bleeker, from the core and from the Prime Minister. Bonne chance! That won't be obvious. I wish you every success. I've never done that before, but you might be able to do it. I don't know, but I have strong doubts. In short, for the Defence Department, there is a returnee provided with zero euros. That's why it was so quiet during the inquisition debate. That is why we did not receive an answer, even if we repeated it three, four, five times. We kept asking the question: how much money is going to the Defense Department? In reply, we received the amounts for the prisons and the justice houses. That wasn't our question. How much money is there for the DOD? How much money is there to re-current for the Defense Department? You can write in your coalition agreement that we are moving towards the European average from 2030, but many billions are still needed to achieve that. You say from 2030, but it's actually starting from 2025, because our government hasn't provided anything extra. That's basically cheating. That is a sentence in the coalition agreement with which everyone is simply sent into the reeds with a rug. Our military deserve better. Our defense deserves a lot better than this, I'm sorry to say, amateurism and this bad work during government negotiations. You won't bring that in now. Forget it. The battle has been fought. It'll be a fat zero, as I suspected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u67	Madam Minister, I wish I could thank you for your answer, but that is not appropriate at all. The President says that not all the questions were answered. In fact, we can conclude that no answer has been given to any of the questions. This is the same situation as it was ten days ago when we discussed the coalition agreement. Your coalition agreement provides for a lot of challenges. It's like the ideal world if we have to list them all. But the ideal world doesn't exist, Madam Secretary. That's just the name of a TV show. I am particularly sorry that you are bringing us another kind of good news show with a number of things that you want to improve and see as investment. You're asking us to be patient. I believe that the patience of the military in this area has been exhausted for a long time. However, there is a heavy but important task ahead of you. You know, or don't know, that in recent decades, the Defense Department has done more than its share in terms of savings. Yet you leave that in the middle again. You say it's just like the retirement debate. You say we're heading in the direction of something. But what that is exactly and how we're going to finance it, you say you don't know anything about it. I do not know how much we can regret that here, when we all see in this committee the challenges facing us in terms of our country's defence and security. It turns out, therefore, that the EUR 1 billion for the optimisation of global security policy has nothing whatsoever to do with our defence policy. If you really want to bet on your credibility, Madam Secretary, and on that of Defence in general, you will have to negotiate seriously. I regret your fellow Secretary of State's statement already. It has effectively indicated that all policy areas will need to be saved. I don't know how it's possible to say that right now. I do not know where you and your colleague get that from, when it comes to credibility, both nationally and internationally. It is about all of us safety, nothing more but certainly nothing less. I can tell you that the Flemish Group is waiting with a breath of fish to discuss your policy letters, whose content and, above all, the related budget will be very critical. I'm not thanking you at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u68	Madam Secretary, when you were congratulated at the beginning of this session, it was said that the defence industry should be able to cross the party boundaries. This theme is too important to turn it into a party politics game. I am aware that our party has come into a different role than in the past, when, among other things, we provided the ministers Vandeput and Loones, but in a spirit of cooperation, this committee has done a very strong job in recent months. Madam Minister, at the initiative of your own group, an ambitious resolution was drawn up on HR policy. For the defence sector, we must make a strong commitment to this. This was a multitude of facets that cannot be carried out if nothing is done. In this committee everyone was aware that this could form the basis for a large part of the coalition agreement. At the time, there was no budgetary translation, but in the meantime, the Defense Department has made it. Those figures are listed here. Today, however, we hear here that there is actually nothing planned for recurrent. That's what's really worrying me. I am wary of turning this into a game of majority opposition, but you have given us a painful situation. Structurally, this A4's doesn't actually provide extra money. We were hoping that this was hidden in the "structural" line of EUR 3.2 billion. There may be something for investment, but there is nothing extra in the area of recurrent expenditure at the moment. What I am particularly interested in is, of course, what will be the conclusion of the budget discussions in the coming weeks, but also what your position will be in the Core on defence. We'll have to guess about that for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u69	First of all, all your statements, I certainly did not say them. If I'm here and my party has chosen this department, it's with ambition. We're not here to figure it out. We're not here to unblock the Defense. We're here to support him. I said I wanted to work hand in hand with the army, with the Defense. I actually went to the staff. I've seen the needs, the expectations. I also have personnel guidelines, and you were talking about them earlier. I repeat, I ask you for a little patience. I don't understand that eagerness if it's not to want to get me to say things I didn't say. Of course, this debate will take place and I look forward to it. We may not always agree, but we will have this debate to be constructive, as I said at the beginning of the meeting. Indeed, our objective and my objective is certainly to talk to you about my credibility. Of course, there's my credibility, but there's most of the Defence behind me and a whole army that's been waiting for a long time. Don't say there will be no means! Don't say we're going to have to cut down on this! We didn't say that. I'm just telling you that for the moment, no debate has taken place. In fact, I do not think that has been done in any department; we can see in the other committees. You absolutely want to discuss something that is still at the government level and that has not yet been arbitrated. I'm just telling you that it's premature and we'll come back to this. There's an ambition. I'll confirm that. I certainly did not say that there were no structural funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u70	Madam Secretary, you can say that we will talk about that. The multiannual budget should normally have been submitted yesterday. Last week, in plenary, the Minister of Finance promised very sacredly that it would certainly be submitted to Europe in time, and now they have two weeks' delay. I wish you every success in the next two weeks. We'll see. It is not serious when you say that there has not been any talk of this, that this has to be discussed again and that I am taking you in speed. That's obviously wrong. There is a structural provision of EUR 3.2 billion. Of this, EUR 1 billion goes towards raising the lowest benefits, especially at the request of the socialist and the green family. In addition, EUR 1 billion is foreseen to increase pensions to EUR 1,500. They'll never achieve that, but all right, they'll definitely raise by 2024. And then there is a structural provision of EUR 1.2 billion for justice, security and a whole range of measures, including the reduction of the first employee. So that money is already divided. I do not know where you are going to make that money, but what your government agreement, not ours, says is that by 2030 we are going to go to the average of the non-nuclear European Member States. That is 1.2% and we now have 0.9 %. This costs EUR 5.9 billion a year in structural terms. You have 10 years to do that. If we go to 1.3 %, as the strategic vision says, we need 6.6 billion structuralally per year and you have up to 0 euros for the next four years. I will question you next week and within two weeks, I will question you when the budget is presented to Europe, I will question you every week until it is finally clear, but it is certainly not going in the right direction. And saying to the next government that it should just cough up 6.6 billion is just not serious. You're kidding Defense and the military. There are a lot of soldiers in the room, not the least. This will be a real blow to the face. This will enter the General Staff, I can tell you that. It's very unfortunate. The government with the N-VA has invested hugely in Defense, with 9 billion, the biggest investment in decades, and it is very unfortunate that we are seeing this happen now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u71	Madam Minister, you say that we must be patient with the answers you will provide in the coming weeks. We look forward to that, of course, and we would like to give you the necessary space. However, what you just said and what you did not say last week is far too non-binding. In fact, you are showing far too little decisiveness. The fact that this is not included in the government table does not, of course, promise much good. The reason why we did not get these figures during the discussion of the coalition agreement is now known to us: there are simply no figures. You say that in those 1 billion there is no structural funding for the defence sector. I think that's a real shame for the DOD. You say that negotiations have yet to begin. But if you still have to negotiate with your colleague, the Secretary of State for the Budget, on an area in crisis, such as Defence, then I wish you every success and boncourage. In any case, you are already showing too little action. I do not need to remind you that in recent years, defence has always been the closing point for the budget, and not knowing whether or not to save will confirm my feeling that this will indeed be the case again. That is, as Mr Francken said, a real blow to the face of Defence in general, especially to the military, who have also given the best of themselves over the past year and always do so for more and more tasks, but with less and less resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u72	Mr President, in order to move forward faster, I will refer to the question I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u73	Mrs Jadin, there are a number of specialized companies offering a variety of air services as part of the training or training of crews or military personnel in the field. This would be the outsourcing of some of the air activities currently carried out in-house in Defence. In principle, this type of outsourcing is legally possible within Defence but is not currently being studied. If the alienation of an arms system takes place through a public sale procedure, any type of company may submit an offer, which will be taken into consideration, provided that the company in question meets the criteria for selecting the market. The award of the contract will always be in accordance with the rules of sale applicable to such equipment, including an authorization from the State that sold the equipment, the transfer to a third party, the end-user certificate and the export licence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u75	Ms Jadin, at your request, your questions Nos. 55009442C, 55009444C and 55009446C are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u76	Mr President, Minister, on September 19, the US Coast Guard's USS Waesche ship caught fire while the ship was at dockside. It is not the first military ship to suffer damage as a result of a fire, including the National Navy's Pearl nuclear submarine, the USS Bonhomme Richard of the US Navy, and the new type 075 helicopter carrier of the Navy of the People's Liberation Army. Minister, what are the fire prevention measures on board vessels in the marine component? What are the fire-fighting capabilities deployed at the Zeebrugge base?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u77	Madam Minister, on September 19, the US Coast Guard's USS Waesche ship caught fire while the ship was at dockside. Unfortunately, this is not the first military ship to suffer damage from a fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u78	Dear colleagues, firefighting measures on board ships are carried out in accordance with the procedures common to the Belgian and Dutch marines. All ships are equipped with fire detection plants to provide warning. When vessels are moored unmanned and without activity, the risk of fire is minimized by a total shutdown of hazardous facilities and the detection plant is connected to the central vessel monitoring system. All crews receive theoretical and practical firefighting training at the Marine Training Centre in Bruges. Crews' knowledge of firefighting is regularly upgraded according to the ship's operational readiness cycle. The Zeebruges naval base has an internal emergency plan and a permanent response team. The vessel has a fire truck and intervenes as soon as a fire alarm occurs on board a moored vessel, either to support the crew present or as a first response crew when the vessel is closed. In parallel, civilian firefighters are called.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u80	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u81	Minister, that a member of the royal family integrates into the Defence is a very rare event. It is not surprising, therefore, that the media interest in Defence activities is strongly on the rise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u82	- Is there a schedule of military activities available to the press so that it can take news of the princess without disturbing the proper functioning of the training?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u83	Minister, The incorporation of a member of the Royal Family into the Defence is a sufficiently rare event to understand the media interest of recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u84	Dear colleagues, Princess Elisabeth is treated as much as possible as any other student of the Royal Military School. During the military initiation phase, images of the princess platoon were created by the press service of the Palace and made available to the press. This is the only way for the press to get access to the princess's images in action. It has not yet been decided whether further moments will be reserved for the press in the future. An increase in the number of requests for information via the web form is observed compared to the same period in previous years. It is now too early to say whether this situation results from the incorporation of Princess Elisabeth into the Royal Military School. The Defence is fully aware that the incorporation of the Princess into the Royal Military School will generate great media visibility, but for the time being this is not part of the communication plan for recruitment. In any event, this will undoubtedly have an impact on the visibility of vacant positions and the training of Defence officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u85	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u86	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It would be interesting to take stock of any increase in the number of women in the Defence Force as a result of this incorporation. This would be an opportunity to see whether this is of particular interest. It's a thought we could take together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u87	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u88	Minister, when the F-16s were purchased by the Air Component in 1976, the Belgian aviation industry had multiple spin-offs. More recently, the selection of the F35 was accompanied by the promise of economic benefits for the Walloon and Flemish industry. Moreover, the crisis of the VOCID-19 has shown us the fragility of the aviation industry, especially for Walloon companies present in the region of Liège. Minister, my questions will be very brief – and I hope you will forgive me if I have to leave during your answer. Firstly, have the economic benefits expected by Belgium been negotiated between Belgian industrialists and Lockheed Martin? Next, how much are these economic benefits estimated? Finally, what will be the recipient company?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u89	Madam Minister, a second thorny point today is the F-35 order and, above all, the dual-capable aircraft - or possibly nuclear capacity. The 34 F-35 units ordered to provide the Air Force with a global impact capability for the future will be built to the Block 4 standard. The software standard for the F-35 will completely upgrade the plane from conventional to dual-capable aircraft capacity only. I have heard in the corridors of the European Parliament that certain parties would have problems with this dual-capable aircraft capacity. Is that right? Is there a problem? Will the order be adjusted or will we simply receive the F-35s of the Block 4 type with corresponding DCA capacity? Does the government intend to somehow disable that capacity via software downgrades or other changes? If not, can we interpret the phrase 'without prejudice to our commitments and obligations within NATO' as your government's loyalty to NATO's nuclear doctrine for the next legislature? Will our country continue to make its active contribution to this on the basis of the principle of nuclear sharing? What will the government do with the DCA capacity? I understand that Green and Ecolo are heartfelt opponents. That is what they have said here several times. They have also put forward many legislative proposals on this subject. The PS is not a big supporter either, nor the sp.a. What are you guys gonna do with that DCA capability anyway? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u90	It is expected that the Belgian F-35A will be delivered to Standard Technology Refresh 3 Block 4, within the contractual budget envelope. To date, the manufacturer's schedule still provides for the first Belgian aircraft to be delivered in 2023 to be in this configuration. Block 4 will offer numerous new possibilities. DCA is just one of many new capabilities introduced into block 4 upgrade. This means that both the hardware and the software comply with a specific configuration. Belgium shares with many countries the vision of a world without nuclear weapons. This is a long-term vision that can only be realised if all nuclear powers commit themselves to it through concrete, irreversible and verifiable steps and if the Non-Proliferation Treaty is universal and fully respected. Belgium has agreed to the strategic concept of NATO. This means that the deterrent must be based on conventional and nuclear capacities. It is therefore not appropriate to make adjustments to the software provided. As a reliable ally of NATO, Belgium supports the alliance's policy. Changes to NATO's nuclear attitude are agreed by the Member States. Furthermore, our country also considers any measure taken in close consultation with the other NATO partners in the context of non-proliferation as a source of stability and as a possible step towards a further global reduction in the number of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u91	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. I understand that we will not make any adjustments to our order. This means that the software updates for the DCA will be provided there and that we will continue to do so. So my information wouldn't be right. You pledge allegiance to NATO's doctrine and you know that nuclear capacity is an inherent part of that doctrine. Unfortunately, because nobody wants nuclear weapons. However, as long as North Korea and other rogue states have them, I think it is better that we have them too. This is an important trend break for our friends from Ecolo and Green. Unfortunately, Mr De Vriendt and Mr Cogolati are not here. I note that the friends of Ecolo/Green, PS and sp.a are fully involved in NATO's nuclear doctrine. Sounds like a trend break to me. Perhaps I can retable my NATO resolution, which may now be adopted, as the green friends take such a turn. This is particularly interesting and, as chairman of the Belgian delegation of the NATO Parliament, I am pleased and delighted to note that. We will continue to follow that up within the NATO Parliament's forthcoming meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic278x.u92	In consultation with the Minister, I propose that the meeting be concluded here.
