ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 10 June Amnesty International published a report denouncing the abuses committed against the people of the Sahel. The organisation recorded 199 cases of extrajudicial executions or enforced disappearances between 3 February and 9 April 2020. The report points to the responsibility of the defence and security forces of Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. Since the Pau summit of 13 January, which brought together the G5 Sahel countries and France, military operations against the jihadist groups operating in the region have intensified. Unfortunately, according to the report, they took place at the expense of respect for the human rights of local people. In Burkina Faso, Amnesty cites the example of three individuals who were allegedly arrested by persons presenting themselves as gendarmes and who, in any case, were wearing uniforms. They were found murdered a few days later. In Mali, the Niono circle seems to be particularly affected by such events. As far as the country is concerned, Amnesty's findings appear to be in line with those of the MINUSMA Human Rights Division, which, in April, accused Malian and Nigerian armies of violence against civilians in Malian territory. In its recommendations, Amnesty calls on intergovernmental, regional and international institutions, human rights bodies and third States to denounce these acts and urge the governments of Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger to respect their international commitments. Minister, have you read this document? Have you been able to talk to the authorities in these countries about the violence in these countries? What information do we get from our on-site performances? Within the European framework and within the United Nations, what position has Belgium adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u2	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, please excuse my slight delay due to this Montgomery tunnel, which is still under construction. I have taken note of Amnesty International's report on allegations of human rights violations by security and defence forces in the Central Sahel. It reports similar denunciations from MINUSMA and Human Rights Watch. Even if they are to be treated as such and the facts must be confirmed, the trend they reveal is at the centre of Belgian and European concerns and those of the international community. It should be noted that support for the Sahel is increasing, particularly in the area of security and the fight against terrorism. This trend is a problem in itself, because it is contrary to our values and is also counterproductive, as it may encourage the accession of certain populations to jihadist groups. Belgium has been the voice of these concerns, particularly in the United Nations Security Council. For example, in my speech on 11 June, concerning the situation in Mali, I stressed: "The feeling of injustice is one of the most powerful. I encourage Mali to respond to this perception of injustice through the adoption and implementation of a national criminal policy. In this context, I regret that no open investigation into allegations of abuse by the defence and security forces has yet resulted in a trial. It is equally regrettable that no trial has been held against the alleged perpetrators of crimes against MINUSMA peacekeepers." On 5 June, during the discussion on the operationalization of the joint G5 Sahel force, our Permanent Representative explicitly called for monitoring allegations of extrajudicial executions by the security forces of the G5 Sahel countries. The European Union has also recently made a very clear statement on the issue, in particular at the request of Belgium through the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, statements of 10 and 12 June 2020 and by the President of the European Council on 30 June. The priority given to the fight against impunity is further illustrated by the financing by Belgium, together with its Benelux partners, of the work of the independent international commission of inquiry. Belgium actively promotes the follow-up of recommendations in its report, in particular to the Security Council, the Human Rights Council in Geneva and Bamako. Finally, I am convinced that the denunciation of allegations of abuses must go hand in hand with the strengthening of the capacity of the security and justice sector to ensure that the Sahel states have security and defence forces capable of providing their citizens with the protection they are entitled to expect. Belgium is fully committed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u3	Minister, thank you for these answers. I'm glad to hear from you about the danger that the feeling of injustice could present and all the problems that it might have on the spot. That was exactly the message I had sent to the Ambassador of Mali when I received him as President of the Mali section of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. In fact, I note, minister, that we are often on the same page. With regard to the abuses which I have wished to denounce by my questions, unless I am mistaken, the Takuba task force in which Belgium participates should be operational from 15 July. This is another lever that Belgium should use to ensure that the actions that are carried out in a very useful and legitimate way in these theatres of war are carried out in conditions of respect for human rights, because it is fundamental if we are to maintain the credibility of these actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u4	My colleague, there are several indications that General Soleimani has encouraged the pro-Iranian militias to focus more on American interests in Iraq. On 11 March, there was a rocket attack on Taji military camp, which killed three people. In June, we saw an intensification of the attacks following the launch of the strategic dialogue between Iraq and the United States. Several rockets landed in the green zone and near Baghdad airport. The Belgian F-16 Detachment and its support personnel will be deployed as part of Operation Inherent Resolve at Muwaffaq Salti Air Force Base in Jordan. The risks of these attacks for Belgium are therefore very limited. The Hezbollah brigades are one of the components of the Hashd al-Shaabi, militias that have very great autonomy not only vis-à-vis the other but also vis-à-vis the authority of the Prime Minister. These militias are therefore only theoretically under his authority. Belgium wants greater control over the actions of the militias and therefore supports an integration policy aimed at placing them under the effective authority of the Prime Minister. With this strengthened control, the government would gain a monopoly on the use of force. In this context, on 25 June, Iraqi counter-terrorism services arrested nearly 15 Hezbollah militants who were found responsible for launching rockets. In addition, on 28 June, an action was taken with the Iraqi Foreign Minister on behalf of the coalition. The Iraqi government has been asked to better protect coalition forces in Iraq, but Iraqi officers have acknowledged that it is their responsibility to ensure this protection, and added that the mandate for the coalition in Iraq is still in place. Belgium strongly supports the principle of accountability, so that the principles of international humanitarian law are better respected. We will not fail to mention this point at international meetings and in discussions with our Iraqi interlocutors. On the basis of these elements, Belgium and Defence do not intend to question military cooperation in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, these militias are very autonomous, very divergent in their interests. I am talking about foreign interests, those of the coalition, Belgian interests, but also those of the Iraqi Prime Minister. Yet these militias are an integral part of the Iraqi armed forces. I think it is important to observe the greatest vigilance at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u6	Question No 55007493C by Mr Samuel Cogolati, question No 55007516C by Mrs Ellen Samyn, question No 7518 by Mr Samuel Cogolati and question No 55007549C by Mrs Els Van Hoof are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u7	Mr Cogolati, the stabilization of the liberated areas in Iraq and Syria is one of the priorities of the global coalition to defeat Daesh. In recent years, stabilization work within this coalition has focused on Iraq. The key partner of the coalition in this area is UNDP, which created the Funding Facility for Stabilization (UNDP) in 2015 to help the Iraqi government meet the stabilization needs in liberated areas and improve conditions for internally displaced persons to return home on a voluntary and dignified basis. Within the coalition, a call for contributions has also been launched with regard to north-eastern Syria. Our country has contributed €6,249,548.24 to this Fund over the last four years, and has also financed mine-clearance projects in Iraq for €1,500,000 and Syria for €500,000. The same support in the field of humanitarian demining is foreseen in 2020 thanks to the important support of the international community and the strong partnership with the Iraqi government. These stabilization initiatives, including the reconstruction of infrastructure, have benefited more than 8,500,000 people and helped support the return of some 4,600,000 Iraqis to their region of origin. A dialogue is under way with our Kurdish partners. They have, in fact, a number of expectations which we are looking at carefully and even with benevolence. It is a process that is under way. Our country is also strongly committed at the level of the Security Council to the adoption of resolutions allowing the reopening of border crossings deemed essential for humanitarian assistance, particularly at a time when the coronavirus pandemic remains a very serious threat to these camps and detention centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u8	Minister, thank you. You mentioned mine clearance, reconstruction and development. But my question was in particular about aid, material and logistical support to the Kurdish authorities for the detention of Belgian nationals. I just wanted to ask you whether the six million euros you mentioned also include this financial support to the Kurdish authorities for the detention of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u9	Right now, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u11	Mr Cogolati, in November 2018, Colombia implemented an anti-dumping measure against deep-frozen fries from companies established in three EU Member States (Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany). According to the Commission's analysis, exports of French fries to Colombia from these three countries amounted to €23 million in 2016. The measures taken by Colombia cover 85% of European exports of frozen fries to Colombia worth EUR 19 million. While several Belgian-based companies export French fries to Colombia, only one, Mydibel, was targeted by an anti-dumping duty of 8 %. The Dutch and German companies concerned were charged between 3 % and 4 %. Although these figures appear to be low, such a surcharge is sufficient to distort competition rules. The main beneficiaries of these measures are the other exporters and not the domestic industry. This new additional measure follows the imposition of measures in South Africa in 2016, Brazil in 2017 on the same products from the same countries as well as France in the case of Brazil. These three measures currently in place on frozen fries cover a total of EUR 140 million of EU exports per year and affect some 20 Belgian, French, Dutch and German companies. As a result of the trade damage suffered and the undeniable systematic effect, Belgium has therefore made the Commission aware of the imposition of these taxes by Colombia at the request of companies in the unfairly targeted sector. Indeed, these repeated measures induce the perception that European producers use unfair commercial practices to acquire a dominant position in third countries. Therefore, the only way to restore their good faith was to seize the WTO dispute settlement mechanism. The European Commission has carried out a thorough counter-analysis and has identified many shortcomings in the procedure and calculations of the Colombian administration. A dispute has therefore been initiated at the WTO. Since consultations with Colombia at the WTO in January could not resolve the dispute, the Commission had no choice but to proceed to the next stage of dispute settlement at the WTO, namely the request for a panel. This panel, initially rejected by Colombia in February, will now be set up following the June meeting of the Dispute Settlement Body. If the two parties were not to agree after receiving the panel's report, arbitration could be considered, since Colombia and the European Union were signatories to the interim multi-party arbitration arrangement. The paralysis of the WTO Appellate Body should therefore not have a negative impact on this issue. In addition, Belgapom, the Belgian sectoral federation, is funding a project led by Trias in the field of potato processing in the Cordillera des Andes in collaboration with several local agricultural organizations. This enabled local producers to receive technical and material assistance in the conservation, processing and packaging of products. By supporting the sector's demand, the European Union and Belgium demonstrate their confidence in the WTO and their support for international trade rules based on fair conditions of competition, all the more important in this period of economic crisis conducive to protectionist measures contrary to WTO rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u12	Question No 55007592C by Mrs Ellen Samyn is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u13	Mr Cogolati, I hear the concerns of civil society expressed by these organisations. They are legitimate and directly related to the need to guarantee the right to regulate States in order to pursue legitimate public policy objectives. Its strengthening is a major focus of the reform of investment protection carried out within the framework of European trade policy and investment. I would point out that the Treaty of Lisbon adopted by the European Union aims at a common trade and investment policy. Thus, before Lisbon, Member States concluded a large number of bilateral investment treaties. Building on these new responsibilities and in response to the many concerns raised by the public debate, the European Union and its Member States have conducted a broad reflection and developed a reformed approach to investment protection. It is based on improving the system from a procedural point of view in order to ensure transparency, impartiality, independence and coherence, and on strengthening investment protection provisions in order to better define the scope of investors' rights and guarantee the right of States to regulate in order to pursue legitimate public policy objectives. By combining these two strands, the European Union aims precisely to protect itself against cases that would attack measures taken in the context of the achievement of legitimate public policy objectives, such as measures to protect public health, while providing foreign investors as well as its investors abroad with a clear and predictable legal framework. It is important to recall that foreign investment is essential and is of interest to developing countries that are seeking such agreements to enhance their attractiveness. They are also important for the European Union, particularly in the context of the ecological transition and the post-VOCID-19 crisis. Thus, the European Union pursues medium- and short-term objectives according to the level of ambition: inclusion of the Investment Court System in the European Union's bilateral investment agreements, revision of standards and definitions in the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty and establishment of a multilateral investment court at the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. At the same time, it ensures the long-term compatibility and consistency between these different levels of work. The challenge is to achieve an in-depth reform of the system while quickly correcting the old agreements that have been interpreted very broadly by the world of arbitration. To this end, the replacement of these former Belgian bilateral investment agreements by investment protection agreements concluded by the European Union and its Member States represents a considerable improvement. At Belgian level, the work to modernise residual bilateral agreements follows the same logic: improving procedures by making them more transparent and impartial and establishing a better balance between investment protection and the right of States to regulate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. You have quoted this very broad appeal from civil society. However, I understand that this international arbitration system is currently the subject of reform projects within the United Nations Institute, particularly in Geneva. It seems to me essential for all European countries to protect themselves against arbitration cases which would aim at public health policies implemented to deal with this contagion and this unprecedented pandemic which is clearly a case of unforeseeable force majeure. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u15	Mr President, Minister, Hong Kong has enjoyed since its surrender in 1997 by London fundamental freedoms such as independent justice and freedom of the press and opinion. In the on-the-spot context we know, Beijing has promulgated a very controversial text. This law punishes secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with external forces is considered by many as a response to the monster demonstrations of 2019. It is kept secret until the end, and its contents are more draconian than expected. For example, the Hong Kong Bar Association expressed "a deep concern", warning that the wording of the law was very vague and undermined the independence of the judiciary. He also denounced China's secret about the content of the text, while Hong Kong had a parliament that had always openly debated the legislation. Mr Minister, can you tell me whether Belgian, or even European, diplomacy has taken a stand in the face of this new law and more broadly on the question of respect for fundamental rights in Hong Kong? Have you had an opportunity to talk to the Chinese authorities about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u16	Hong Kong should enjoy a high degree of autonomy under the "One Country, Two Systems' structure. However, this structure has been increasingly under pressure in recent years due to the growing influence of the central government in Beijing, with the provisional culmination of the introduction of the new, highly controversial security law. This is a very worrying development, not only for the citizens of Hong Kong who would see their rights curtailed but also because this would go against the British-Chinese Joint Declaration of 1997. According to the Minister, does the new Security Act constitute an infringement of Hong Kong's autonomy, guaranteed under the principle of one country, two systems? Will you clearly condemn this? Will you call on the Chinese ambassador to provide the necessary explanations regarding the new security law and the repression of protests against that security law and to convey and raise concerns about it? Does the Minister agree with the German Foreign Minister that this will have an impact on the EU-China relationship? What impact does recent developments have on the EU-China Investment Treaty negotiations? What European and international initiatives are there to put pressure on China's Hong Kong policy? What initiatives have proved effective in the recent past? How do you estimate the EU's agreement on the new Security Act in Hong Kong? Is the Minister expecting a strong EU consensus at the Foreign Affairs Council on 13 July? Are sanctions possible? What position will Belgium take at the Council meeting on 13 July? What concrete steps, which may be the result of a possible strong condemnation, does the Minister himself envisage? Will Belgium, as a member of the UN Security Council, make an effort to get the Hong Kong issue on the agenda? The resolution of the European Parliament of 19 June 2020 calls, inter alia, for China to be brought before the International Court of Justice because the new Security Act violates the Chinese-British Joint Declaration. Is the Minister prepared to take this step himself or to support the United Kingdom in doing so if necessary? ?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u17	Mr Minister, with regard to the particularly disturbing situation in Hong Kong, which we have often referred to in this committee, we know that the draft agreement on extradition to China has already set fire to powders more than a year ago and has led to monster demonstrations by the pro-democracy clan. As Mr. Lacroix said, things have worsened considerably since 1 July. This national security law imposed by Beijing clearly ends and burys the principle of "one country, two systems" which still guaranteed a certain freedom of expression in Hong Kong as well as an independent judicial system. Today, with the imposition of this law by the People's Republic of China, this is no longer the case. We have seen many states - the United States, Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada - react very quickly. We were also able to hear President Charles Michel and the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, react to it on 22 June - if I remember correctly - at the end of the EU-China summit, announcing that if this law on national security were to be imposed, the answers would be very strong on the part of the EU. Today, it is 14 July, a few weeks after the imposition of the said law, and I confess that I do not understand very well what these "strong" measures and the responses imposed by the EU consist of. I understand that you were yesterday at the European Council of Foreign Ministers. I have not heard a strong response or response from Mr Borrell, as expected. Australia announced that it would welcome Hong Kong citizens to take refuge on its soil and the same on the part of the United Kingdom, which intends to open citizenship to those same citizens if they were in danger. Have such avenues been raised in your department? Do you intend to impose targeted European sanctions against Chinese officials who are allegedly involved in the violation of fundamental rights in Hong Kong? Is it possible, and if so to what extent, to stop exports of military equipment and cyber surveillance to China so that they cannot be applied in Hong Kong. Finally, would it not be possible for Belgium, in consultation with the other European States, to refer the case to the International Court of Justice,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, for several months, European diplomacy has expressed, through its statements and representations to the Chinese authorities, the concerns of the EU and its Member States regarding the new security law in Hong Kong and its potentially negative impact on the maintenance of One Country, Two Systems, Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the independence of justice. On each occasion, the importance attached by the European Union and its Member States to China's respect for international law and its international commitments was reiterated. In this case, the Sino-British Agreement of 1984 and the provisions of the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights are enshrined in the Basic Law of Hong Kong and must continue to be applied. From a democratic point of view, the opportunity to maintain Hong Kong's specific status as a condition for its attractiveness for Western companies and its own future economic prosperity was also recalled. On 22 May, Josep Borrell made a statement on behalf of the EU and its Member States. This expressed the EU's concern and the desire to maintain the Hong Kong specific status. It also calls for a democratic debate and consultations with all actors for the drafting of the new Security Act. On 29 May, Josep Borrell issued a new statement expressing the European Union's serious concerns about Beijing's decision and stressing the lack of conformity of the initiative with China's international commitments and the provisions of the Basic Law of Hong Kong. Also on the same date, at the request of the United States and the United Kingdom, and despite China's strong reluctance, recent legislative developments in Hong Kong have been addressed in the Security Council under various headings. On 22 June, European and Chinese leaders addressed this issue at the virtual EU-China Summit. Chinese reactions to these various statements and approaches have always been a reminder of the principle of external non-interference in the Hong Kong case, which, according to Beijing, is an internal matter of China. Despite international mobilization, the Standing Committee of the National People's Assembly of the People's Republic of China unanimously adopted, on 30 June, a very hard bill on national security in Hong Kong without prior consultation with the Hong Kong Legislative Council. On 1 July, Josep Borrell made a new statement, recalling the European Union's concerns about maintaining the specific status of Hong Kong and its fundamental freedoms. He also pointed out that the European Union would assess the implications of the law, closely monitor developments in the local situation, in particular in view of the parliamentary elections of 6 September 2020, and would continue to express its concerns in its dialogue with China. Belgium supported the European Union's various statements on Hong Kong, in particular that of High Representative Josep Borrell, which was published on 1 July. Together with 27 other countries, Belgium also supported the United Kingdom's joint declaration of initiative, delivered on 30 June at the 44th session of the Human Rights Council, which referred, inter alia, to the situation in Xinyang and Hong Kong. In addition, the Chinese Embassy has taken several steps with my services, which recalled the European and Belgian concerns expressed at the beginning of this speech. On 25 May, the Director General of Bilateral Relations also had a telephone interview with the Chinese Ambassador and stressed the need to respect international agreements, to preserve the integrity of the One Country, Two Systems principle - not only in the letter, but also in the spirit - to maintain a democratic debate and to continue consultations with all relevant actors when drafting the new security law. It also recalled the importance of Hong Kong's special status for Belgian and European companies, as well as our concerns about the new tensions on the spot. A meeting took place on 1 July between the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Management Committee and the Chinese Ambassador. In this context, reference was made to talks between European and Chinese leaders at the EU-China virtual summit on 22 June. The President also underlined that Belgium shares the concerns expressed by the EU and other countries within the framework of the Human Rights Council. These concerns should also be addressed in the EU-China human rights dialogue. The situation in Hong Kong was on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 13 July under the heading "News items". For my part, I will continue to defend the Belgian position on the basis of the same principles. Our partners in the Union are all of the opinion that inaction is no longer an option and that it is necessary to examine together what concrete initiatives the European Union and its Member States could adopt. In-depth discussions based on a detailed analysis of the national security law will therefore be organized very soon. In this context, the European Parliament resolution on Hong Kong adopted on 19 June 2020 will also be taken into account. I will not fail to keep you informed of future developments. From a general point of view, Belgium's relations with China are based on constructive but critical engagement and principle-based pragmatism. It therefore seems to me appropriate to maintain the dialogue with China, particularly on the Hong Kong issue. I can assure you that my services will continue to closely and closely monitor developments in Hong Kong in close cooperation with the European Union and our other like-minded partners. The European Union remains the most effective channel for expressing our interests. Furthermore, the possible impact of the new national security law on human rights, the security of our citizens and our economic interests will continue to be the focus of our attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u19	Minister, you reassured me at the end of your speech. At the beginning, you followed up on observations and regrets on your part and on that of other international actors, etc. I was once again expecting a long speech, which was going to explain to us that everyone regrets what is happening in China, that we are pointing a big finger at China and that we are still there. Fortunately, in the end, I was reassured because you said that, since yesterday, an agreement had been reached at European partner level not to remain inactive and finally to take concrete initiatives. So I look forward to them. When France, excuse me China... I'm talking about France because we are on 14 July and the words freedom, equality, fraternity resonate especially here in the case that concerns us in Hong Kong. Indeed, it is not just economic and trade rights for Hong Kong's partners, but above all fundamental human rights. When I hear that China says that it is internal interference by foreign powers, no, you have confirmed it yourself, there are international agreements. The Sino-British Agreement is being flouted. The Constitution of Hong Kong is also so. All of this is part of an international consensus and international agreements. I confess that I was very afraid when I saw that the Security Council had dealt with this subject in "miscellaneous points". I thought once again, it was like in '40. That's not the case. I have the impression that since yesterday, on 13 July, there has still been a European surge in this matter. I can only support you in the steps you will take in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u20	Mr Minister, my reply follows on from what Mr Lacroix said. We have joined with previous reactions to what is happening in Hong Kong, but on your side and on the Belgian side it is all very careful. Three references were made to the need to start democratic talks after that law came into force, and people are protesting because democracy is under threat there. Then a country such as Belgium must be very strong, and that is apparently not the case if I hear you making the assessment of trade relations and interests. It's about democracy. Like Mr Lacroix, I hope that a European response will be strong and very clear and not like Josep Borrell's first reaction, hoping for democratic talks after the law has already arrived. We must react much more strongly to what is happening there. We are increasingly hearing in committee about situations where democracy is being trampled on too easily. If the countries that are committed to the rule of law and democracy do not respond strongly, then we are just looking at it. I therefore expect you to speak much more strongly, as some of your fellow foreign ministers have done in Europe. They have said very strongly that what China is doing in Hong Kong is unacceptable, wrong and extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u21	Minister, like my fellow Members, Messrs. Lacroix and Crombez, I think that at some point we must stop the agreed diplomatic declarations expressing our deepest concern about the dramatic situation for human rights, for freedom of expression, for freedom to demonstrate peacefully, for democracy in Hong Kong. We have heard all these statements; we have heard all the announcements, including at the highest level after the summit between the European Union and China. Now the facts are there. I mean, the principle of one country and two systems is completely buried in Hong Kong. The repression is real. Cases of torture have been documented. Pro-democracy activists, simply young students who campaign peacefully, are in prison, are involved in proceedings before Chinese courts and tribunals, which is completely in violation of Hong Kong's judicial independence system. I believe that we have the right to expect, in Belgium, a much stronger reaction from your Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also and above all from the EU27 and High Representative Josep Borrell. I heard you say, following yesterday's meeting of the Foreign Ministers, that inaction was no longer an option. We fully agree with you on this point. And at the same time, we still don't see the actions of the European Union, when there are several avenues for action right before us. I am thinking in particular of this investment protection treaty signed between Belgium, Luxembourg and Hong Kong, which provides for protection in the event of an invasion of the Chinese armed forces. I am thinking of this extradition treaty, which will be the subject of the next question, which Belgium signed in 2018. I am also thinking of targeted sanctions. Minister, we really expect much more from you in order to be able to take action and finally put the points on the i in our relations with China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u22	Minister, signed in 2016, the extradition agreement to China was voted in Parliament on November 8, 2018. Do you confirm that this treaty is still awaiting Royal Assent because we are still waiting for the instruments of ratification from China? It would be interesting to understand why the Treaty had not yet entered into force. Let us be clear that this Treaty represents a real danger to respect for human rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. Two red signals have indeed ignited since the signing of this treaty. First of all, there is the situation in Hong Kong. We know perfectly well that what set Hong Kong on fire, what triggered the monster protests of the pro-democracy parties, is precisely the signing of an extradition agreement to China. In this case, we realize that Belgium has signed a very similar agreement which raises questions in many European States. I understand that the Supreme Court in Sweden decided that the extradition agreement signed between Sweden and China violated articles 3 and 6 of the European Court of Human Rights. There is not yet any case law in Belgium, but one can obviously draw on the case law of other European States. A second element that is particularly challenging is that we now know that the judicial system in China has been reformed and that it is ultimately the responsibility of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and not of the Chinese state to do justice. These two elements should call into question the entry into force of this Treaty in Belgium. Given the dramatic situation for human rights and democracy, also in other provinces – notably Xinjiang with the Uighur minority who is in danger and facing internment camps for millions of people – we should, in Belgium, at least suspend the application of this extradition treaty to China to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u23	On Sunday evening, I sent you a second question, referring to the answer you gave in plenary. After all, you have already explained a number of things there. You said, among other things, that the treaty has not yet entered into force because China has not yet notified or transmitted ratification. That answer, of course, strengthens the pertinence of my question on the path taken by the Treaty so far. Minister, what are the next steps for this treaty to come into force? Can you provide maximum clarity? As far as our country is concerned, no steps are currently expected, the ball is now in China's camp and the next step must come from them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u24	Mr De Vriendt, Belgium concluded a bilateral extradition agreement with China on 31 October 2016. This Convention contains important exclusion clauses and already provides the necessary safeguards to prevent extradition for political, ethnic or religious reasons or in the event of a risk of death. The extradition of minors or Belgian Chinese is also excluded. For the purposes of the Convention, the crimes must also be recognised as such by both parties. This treaty was approved by the law of 3 December 2018. Belgium notified China of the completion of its internal procedures in January 2019. To date, however, China has not yet done so. The treaty is not yet in force because China has not yet ratified it. In any case, the implementation of the Convention will be very restrictive. With Hong Kong, Belgium has not concluded an extradition treaty. These issues are among the specific powers of the Minister of Justice who can give more details on the procedural aspects. In Belgium, the control of exports of arms and dual-use goods is a regional competence, with the exception of arms exported by the Defence or the Federal Police. To my knowledge, neither of these two federal entities has exported military equipment to China and Hong Kong in the past five years. With regard to a possible suspension of licences for dual-use goods to Hong Kong or China, your question must therefore be addressed to the Regions. With regard to the concept of national security law, I can assure you that the Hong Kong case is being followed very closely, particularly in cooperation with our partners in the European Union. All felt that inaction was no longer an option in the context of the previous question. At the European Council of Foreign Affairs on 13 July 2020, the Hong Kong dossier was raised under current issue. A thorough discussion will now take place between the European Union and its Member States on concrete initiatives. In this context, the European Union and its Member States also take good note of the European Parliament's recent resolution on Hong Kong of 19 June 2020. I will not fail to keep you informed of any further developments. I can assure you that my services will closely monitor further developments in Hong Kong and their potential impact on human rights as well as on the security of our citizens and on our economic interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u25	Minister, thank you. It is true that, on paper, this extradition agreement to China provides for the observance of fundamental guarantees enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. The whole question is whether China's diplomatic assurances are sufficient to enable us to guarantee the human rights of persons who may be extradited to the People's Republic of China. And there, Minister, it must be noted that the vessel is injuring. We realize that China is the country in the world that executes the most people a year. Capital punishment is heavily applied there. Once again, the right to a fair trial cannot be guaranteed at all, because we know how much the judicial system is linked to the very political apparatus of the Chinese Communist Party. I therefore believe that our fears for respect for human rights are well founded and that it is absolutely necessary to be able to suspend this treaty, certainly in view of the very serious situation in Hong Kong. This is what other countries, such as New Zealand, Australia, Canada, have recently made up their minds, and I think that in Belgium we should follow suit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We would ask you to consider not waiting for Chinese ratification, but to take the decision to suspend the extradition treaty and give this signal clearly, given the situation in Hong Kong. We fear that Belgium, as a small country with a relatively small diplomatic apparatus, will not be able to guarantee the restrictiveness, which exists on paper, of the extradition treaty. The risk that human rights activists will be extradited to China for a certain constructed reason is simply too great. It is an awareness that is ripening in many European countries but also outside Europe. The examples have been mentioned by Mr Cogolati. In Sweden there are incidents and debates, in France, Australia, Canada and so on. I think that the context has changed and has evolved in such a way that a new Belgian position is forced upon itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u27	Questions Nos. 55007688C and 55007691C by Mr. Cogolati are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u28	Mr President, Iran has experienced several serial incidents: an explosion at the Parchin military site on the night of 25-26 June; an explosion at a clinic in northern Tehran on 30 June. On 2 July, the Natanz nuclear site was the scene of a security incident leading to significant material damage. On 4 July, a fire in a petrochemical plant in Bandar, Persian Gulf, and an explosion in one of the country's main power plants in Ahvaz, near the Iraqi border, were also reported. Activities on the Natanz site are one of the points of attention within the framework of Iran's nuclear programme, particularly with regard to Tehran's gradual disengagement since the withdrawal of the United States Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Iran's passive head of defence, General Jalili, reportedly admitted that Iran was also the subject of cyber attacks on some of these facilities in the past few months. There is no certainty at this stage that there is a connection between all these incidents as they are the result of attacks. Different speculations are going well. A mere coincidence is possible, but unlikely. Interventions by internal or external forces are suspected, some foreign newspapers mention the explosion of a bomb placed by one of the agents working for Israel in one of the buildings. Iranian position sites also relayed the message of an unknown group – the leopards of the homeland – claiming the attack on the nuclear site. According to some messages relayed by social media, the opposition group MKO – the Iranian opposition group – is pointed out. Nor is it excluded that these are industrial accidents. It is well known that some infrastructure is poorly maintained and that preventive measures are often ignored. As part of the Joint Global Action Plan (JCAP), inspectors have access to the Natanz site and are almost continuously verifying Iran's compliance with JCPOA conditions. Any investigation into the cause of this incident is a national prerogative, unless Iran wishes to invite an international investigation. As regards the possible release of radioactivity from the uranium enrichment plant in Natanz, I would like to point out that Belgium has a system of continuous monitoring of the presence of radioactivity in the atmosphere, as well as other European countries. These international systems detect the possible presence of dangerous radioactive elements. These events have not had any immediate effect on the Security Council's activities in New York at this stage. A report by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), following the implementation of the JCPOA, is expected at the next 22/31 session, scheduled for December. We are in contact with our embassy in Tehran about these incidents and we are following the situation closely. At present, the challenge lies in the preservation of the JCPOA, which is threatened both by the withdrawal of the United States from the plan and its re-imposition of unilateral sanctions, and by Iran's non-compliance with a number of its commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u29	Minister, thank you. As you said, a mere coincidence is quite unlikely, even if there is apparently still no clarity. I really call for an international investigation to be conducted to ensure full transparency on the exact causes of these repeated incidents, I recall, particularly in a nuclear centre. Even if it can be cyber-sabotage, including from allied countries, I think it is really important to recall that, in the use of force, it is absolutely necessary to prohibit this type of sabotage, which makes civilians the first victims of these incidents, including nuclear ones, and also makes our civilian populations victims of such armed attacks. Thank you for your follow-up to the situation in Iran.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u30	Question No 55007694C by Mr Simon Moutquin was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u31	Minister, the mechanism for the delivery of cross-border humanitarian aid to Syria has been the subject of many discussions in the UN Security Council in recent days. After a week of divisions and seven elections, a resolution by Germany and Belgium to extend resolution 2139 for 12 months was finally adopted a few days ago by 12 votes out of 15. The delivery mechanism which expired the previous day could therefore in extremis be extended. There is one negative point: whereas there were previously two crossing points, this humanitarian aid will now have to pass through a single channel, Bab al-Hawa, on the Turkish border. The text further states that the Secretary-General of the Organization shall submit a report every sixty days. Mr Minister, Belgium demonstrates in this resolution the impact of its presence in the Security Council and its willingness to work towards concrete solutions. We must stress that. Can you tell us more about the mechanism that will be in place for the next 12 months? In concrete terms, how did the discussions with Germany take place and then the discussions in the Security Council? Who supported this resolution? How do you envisage the future in terms of the delivery of humanitarian aid to Syria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u32	Monsieur le président, Mr Crombez, Monsieur De Maegd, the issue of humanitarian access to Syria has been closely followed by our country since the start of the Belgian mandate in the UN Security Council in January 2019. The resolution on which humanitarian access to Syria is based was originally adopted by the Council in July 2014 and renewed for 12 months each. Since the start of our mandate in 2019, Belgium has acted as a coordinator for the renewal of this resolution. This happened in 2019 together with co-owners Kuwait and Germany and since early 2020 together with Germany. These are indeed two Western countries, but no other Member State was found willing to take responsibility for this difficult dossier. After difficult discussions and a double veto, the resolution was extended by only six months at the beginning of this year, which meant a lot of uncertainty for the parties on the ground. In addition, the border crossings via Jordan and Iraq were closed. The resolution was to be renewed on 10 July. Belgium and Germany led the negotiation process together. Thanks to our continued commitment, we have managed to keep the level of ambition high and to reach a compromise after five votes for an extension of 12 months. However, there was a heavy price to pay, in particular the closure of the border crossing in Bab al-Salam. However, 85% of the humanitarian aid reaching Syria across national borders uses the Bab al-Hawa border crossing. The extension of this access for 12 months immediately gives humanitarian actors active on the ground a longer planning horizon to ensure the supply of those in need. This difficult compromise was adopted on Saturday by all members of the Security Council, abstaining only from Russia, China and the Dominican Republic. We very much regret that last week's earlier and more ambitious text by the co-owners ran into a double veto. An alternative Russian proposal then received only four votes, indicating that the vast majority of the members of the Security Council supported the co-op holders in their approach. Thanks to the very active role and the joint work of the Belgian-German co-owners, all the other members of the Security Council were able to support the ultimate proposal of the co-owners on Saturday. In the end, the working method and the use of the co-owners received a great deal of praise and was best achievable in order not to jeopardise the renewal of the mechanism. There is no formal link between the renewal of the cross-border aid mechanism and the Turkish-Russian ceasefire in the region. Belgium is now calling on all actors within and outside the Security Council to assume their responsibility, and it will continue to work for the survival of the Syrian people, who are more and more desperately lacking in medicines and food as the COVID-19 pandemic spreads in the region. Our country has taken on its responsibilities in this matter. I therefore evaluate our action in this area as positive. I fear that without our active and intensive diplomatic action, the result could have been quite different, with potentially dramatic humanitarian consequences. With regard to the Brussels IV conference, since 2014, Belgium has financed more than €222 million of humanitarian aid in the Syrian region, including some 122 million aid in Syria itself. As I announced at this conference, Belgium will contribute EUR 24.7 million to the Syrian population in 2020. Belgium believes that the return of Syrian refugees is only possible on a voluntary basis and, to the extent possible, in safe and dignified conditions. Our country supports UNHCR in providing advice and guidance to refugees. We are also of the view that these conditions for a safe and dignified return are currently not fulfilled. At the Brussels IV conference, the European Union and the United Nations stressed the need for a Syrian-led political process and the fight against impunity. The Days of Dialogue highlighted the impact of the crisis on Syria's neighbouring countries hosting large numbers of refugees and on the impact on women and young people. In view of our country's special attention to the problem of children in armed conflict, we have organized an event "Children of Syria, bearing the brunt of 9 years of war". Despite the global economic impact of the VOCID-19, pledges for donations amount to a total of €6.9 billion in the coming years, a little less than last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. I also thank you for your efforts and those of our Ambassador in New York and our representation on the Security Council, which, in consultation with Germany, has really pushed to renew the delivery of humanitarian assistance to Syria. It must be noted that humanitarian aid is now restricted on the spot. The Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Aid of the United Nations was heard about mothers who were forced to feed their children with grass. It is important to recall and denounce the positions of Russia and China that are particularly serious in their impact on the humanitarian situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your efforts, as well as those of foreign affairs such as diplomacy. It is clear that this Parliament wishes to place a great deal of emphasis on the terrible humanitarian situation in Syria and has done so in recent weeks and months. I was glad that Belgium took the lead together with Germany. One of my specific questions looked at your response to Russia. It is unlikely that Russia will continue to veto the obvious at a time when most international organisations are calling very clearly for the necessary action to first prevent the worsening human suffering in this appalling situation. At least I hope we'll keep the pressure high. This Parliament will certainly keep the pressure high. We hope to continue to be able to count on you to do so also on the international forum.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u35	I thank you, Minister, for your answer to the question of the delivery of humanitarian aid to Syria, which is crucial to us. I am pleased to see that Belgium continues to play a very proactive role in this area. As you said, the negotiations were particularly difficult because of this double veto. The Belgian and German efforts led to a compromise last Saturday, despite – to be stressed – the abstention of China, Russia and the Dominican Republic. I have no doubt for a moment that you will continue to work to ensure that this effort, of which we can be proud, continues. It is an important message that we – Belgian citizens, politicians, Parliament and you, of course, Minister – send to the refugees and victims of Syria, as it is true that the situation in which they live is extremely catastrophic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u36	Is your government well aware of this public consultation? Does he intend to make it widely known and communicated? Would this not be an opportunity to speak out in denouncing this inconsistency with "green diplomacy" and the Green Deal, advocated by the European Union, and thus strengthening the federal government's position in this regard?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u37	Mr Cogolati, the European Commission launched a public consultation on 16 June. It is part of a broader review of the European Union's trade and investment policy. The Commission has decided to launch this assessment due to a context of growing challenges: polarisation and increasing volatility in international trade relations; the deep crisis of the World Trade Organisation; increasing digitisation; and the need to work in the political fields towards a climate-neutral and sustainable economy. The VOCID-19 pandemic has only exacerbated these challenges and, therefore, only accelerated the search for appropriate responses. The public consultation takes place until 15 September. The review of trade policy should lead to a Commission communication by the end of the year. It will aim at defining a general reorientation of the European Union's trade policy in the medium term. The call to participate in the consultation was widely distributed at a meeting with Belgian civil society organisations held on 24 June. On that occasion, my services encouraged them to participate. The SPF Economy has also sent the same message to the federations through its network. I therefore hope that our contributions will come from a variety of sources. My services will be responsible for the final coordination of a Belgian position on the revision of European policy in the Council. With regard to your comments on the European Union-Mercosur Association Agreement, I would like to recall that the negotiations on the trade side were concluded in June 2019. An agreement on the political aspect was reached in June this year. As negotiations on the agreement have been concluded, the agreement is being translated into the languages of the Union so that it can be presented to the Council. I expect that the FPS Economy's impact study on trade will soon be completed. The Commission has also recently published the draft final report of its assessment of the impact of the agreement on the Sustainable Development Plan. This study will be discussed with civil society on 22 July before being finalized. These assessments will allow us to take an informed and coordinated position on the European Union-Mercosur Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you will meet with civil society on 22 July, I sincerely invite you to consult all the associations representing the Walloon and Flemish agricultural world, all the environmental organisations and all the trade unions that are united in the fight against the entry into force of this free trade treaty with Mercosur, which violates our climate and political objectives, such as the Green Climate Pact – the famous Green Deal of the European Union – but also workers' rights. It is known that several countries, including Brazil of Jair Bolsonaro, do not respect certain ILO conventions or the rights of indigenous peoples. A few months ago, we received representatives of indigenous peoples living in the Amazon, who made it very clear that we should not sign and approve this treaty on Mercosur. I hope that they will also be heard in this consultation phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u39	Mr Cogolati, since June 2018, the European Commission has been negotiating a free trade agreement with New Zealand on the basis of a mandate made public. At the time, Belgium had called for the publication of this mandate and for the cumulative impact of trade agreements on the agricultural sector to be taken into account, which was reflected in the text of the negotiating mandate. Negotiations with New Zealand are generally constructive and have progressed well. The Commission presented the second market access offer at the last round in early June 2020. In the European Union's revised offer, the Commission has tried to take as much account as possible of the European Union's agricultural sensitivities, in particular by using quotas. Given that New Zealand was disappointed by the European Union's concessions in its revised market access offer and that several elements are still open on the negotiating table, it seems unlikely that an agreement could be reached this year. Currently, the next round is not scheduled until after the general elections in New Zealand at the end of September. With regard to the economic impact on our agricultural sectors, our country systematically calls for the results of the sustainable impact assessment to be taken into account in the negotiation and publication in time of the update of the study of the Joint Research Centre on the cumulative impact of trade agreements and on agricultural sectors promised by Commissioner Hogan before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u40	Minister, the risks differ from those raised by the agreement with Mercosur. Nevertheless, the Walloon Federation of Agriculture has already alerted the political world to this free trade agreement with New Zealand, which would integrate the dairy sector and further weaken ours. I once again ask here that the economic impact of this kind of free trade agreement, whether with Mercosur or New Zealand, be studied upstream and presented to Parliament in a comprehensive and transparent manner before any progress in the negotiations is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u41	Minister, my questions about this are as follows: What about the accusations made by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and many others about Turkey and its politically controlled judicial system? Does the international coalition intend to react to this judgment? Will Belgium also take a position on this matter? Thank you, Minister, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u42	Mrs Jadin, in general, the deterioration of human rights and the rule of law in Turkey is a major concern of Belgium and the trend observed in recent months, including the trials against civil society activists, is in fact hardly positive. The European Union made a clear statement on the subject in a press release issued by the Spokesman for the European External Action Service on 4 July. In this communiqué, the European External Action Service regrets the Court's decision. This decision once again reinforces the concerns of the European Union, expressed on numerous occasions and shared by Belgium, regarding the decline of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in Turkey. The European External Action Service recalls that, as a candidate country for accession by the European Union and a member country of the Council of Europe, the Turkish authorities must respond appropriately to the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Turkey is also urged to make concrete progress on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, which are the cornerstones of the relationship between the European Union and Turkey. This press release was also distributed to all delegations at the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 7 July. The Commissioner for Human Rights at the CRC has repeatedly expressed concern at the measures taken by the Turkish authorities and called on the authorities to restore the independence of the judiciary and to stop targeting and silence human rights defenders. All these questions are closely followed by our posts in Ankara and Istanbul, as well as by my services in Brussels; regular contacts are held with Turkish civil society. In the past, my predecessor has not failed to convey our human rights concerns to the Turkish authorities, and I intend to follow the same path. At the multilateral level, Belgium is also very active. At the March and June 2019 session of the Human Rights Council, we discussed the situation in Turkey, in particular the violations of freedom of expression and of the media, the activities and physical integrity of human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents. Belgium participated in Turkey's last universal periodic review in January 2020, with three recommendations expressing our concern about the deterioration of human rights and freedoms compared to previous UPRs, in particular with regard to the independence of the judiciary, the use of anti-terrorism law and early and forced marriages. Observation of the trials of human rights defenders is one of the tools we use to support these people. Belgium is particularly active in this field, in coordination with the other Member States of the European Union. Our diplomats have thus witnessed the monitoring of a large number of trials in Turkey. Our presence alone is a clear indication to national and local authorities of our interest in a case and allows us to draw some conclusions that complement our analysis of the procedure as a whole. It is on the basis of this analysis that we can then form a judgment on the fact that the human rights defenders in question have or have not had access to a fair trial, something on which we can then communicate bilaterally or through a dialogue at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u43	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive information. It was already discussed last week: the situation in Turkey is deteriorating from month to month, from week to week and certainly as regards respect for human rights. I note that our diplomats on the ground and our minister are making the efforts necessary to continue to raise awareness and dialogue, but also to take much stronger positions at a given time, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u44	Mrs Jadin, my services have become aware of this measure announced by the Homeland Security Department in the United States, no longer allowing foreign students to stay in this country if their university decides, due to the VOCID-19 pandemic, to offer courses only online at the beginning of the year. It should be noted that, on the same day, the State Department issued a press release "International students are welcome in the US", thus softening the message of Homeland Security. The problem of student visas was raised by the European Ambassador in Washington, Mr Stavros Lambrinidis, to Mr Philip Reeker, Assistant Secretary of State. My services were not contacted by Belgian students who would find themselves in a difficult situation following the announcement of this measure. At present, the repatriation of the persons concerned is not necessary, since it is always quite possible to travel from the United States to Belgium by commercial route. My services are not aware of other non-European countries that have taken similar measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. Some confusion in the information channels led me to ask these questions. Your answers were very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u46	Question No 55007756C by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u47	Minister, last week we were at the airport of Zaventem and we were reported a problem with the security clearances to enter the tarmac. That security clearance must be given by the National Security Authority. The waiting periods are quite long, four to five months. Employees of the bankrupt Swissport company either go to Aviapartner or to the new, temporary handler Alyzia. The airport asks if it is possible for those who were fired at Swissport, but can get started at Alyzia, to maintain their security clearance until a new security clearance has been granted by the National Security Authority. I understand that a meeting would take place this week, but can you explain what the plan is so that the handlers can do their job anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u48	Mr Vandenput, I would like to inform you in advance that your question concerns safety advice, not security clearances. According to the law of 11 December 1998 concerning classification and security clearance, safety attestations and safety advice, the National Security Authority is competent to issue these safety advices. However, the specific conditions related to the issue of airport identification badges for access to security restricted areas fall within the competence of the Federal Public Service Mobility and Transport, not under the competence of the Federal Public Services Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Finally, I would like to refer to the Implementing Regulation 2015/1998, which provides for the submission of a person to background checks prior to the award of an airport identification badge. De facto, the airport identification badge is withdrawn and a new background check is carried out as soon as a person changes employer. The National Security Authority, in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Aviation, has already taken steps to ensure that the provision of safety advice to Alyzia's employees is as smooth as possible within the relevant rules in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u49	Minister, I am glad that it is being worked on and that it is now clear that it is about an opinion, but that DGLV should finally authorise it. So I will ask Minister Bellot if we can work a little faster, but thank you for the clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u50	Mr Cogolati, the agreement between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and the Hong Kong Government on the promotion and mutual protection of investment was signed on 7 October 1996 and has been in force since 19 June 2001. At this stage, this agreement, as well as other economic and trade agreements concluded by Hong Kong with third countries, are not threatened by Beijing, even after the entry into force of the National Security Law in Hong Kong. This new law concerns respect for public and constitutional order in Hong Kong and is essentially political in scope: suppressing the democratic opposition, in particular the claims of autonomy or independence. It does not question Hong Kong's continuing competence and relative economic autonomy under the "one country, two systems" principle. It is true that, in some areas, the "one country, two systems" principle referred to in the agreement may become increasingly eroded. This threat concerns in particular respect for fundamental freedoms (freedom of expression, information and peaceful demonstration) and respect for the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. However, compliance with these principles has always been an important criterion for the establishment of Belgian and European companies in Hong Kong, which has so far been regarded as a very attractive and safe business hub for companies wishing to do business in mainland China and the Asian region more generally. With regard to Article 4 of the Agreement, which provides for possible protection against possible Chinese military actions, no Belgian investor present in Hong Kong has resorted to it since Hong Kong's surrender to China in 1997, there has never been any military action by China in Hong Kong. This provision can only be invoked by a Belgian investor who considers that he has suffered injury, and not by the Belgian State itself. On the basis of my recent information, the investment promotion and protection agreements concluded between Hong Kong and other European like-minded countries have not been suspended or denounced following the adoption of the national security law. However, the United States has announced the gradual revocation of Hong Kong's special commercial status as well as sanctions: suspension of exports of arms and sensitive or dual-use equipment to Hong Kong, visa restrictions for certain Chinese officials involved in the repression, sanctions against banks engaged in transactions with them. In cooperation with our partners in the European Union and our respective chambers of commerce in Hong Kong, we will closely monitor developments and the possible impact of the new law on the activities of European companies and on the functioning of the Hong Kong judiciary. At this stage, however, it is premature to draw conclusions. European companies must, however, be vigilant. The National Security Act also applies to foreign nationals and is extraterritorial in scope. In addition, the European Union and its Member States will shortly organise an in-depth discussion based on a detailed analysis of the national security law, in order to jointly examine what concrete initiatives the European Union and its Member States could adopt. In this context, the European Parliament resolution on Hong Kong, adopted on 19 June 2020, will also be taken into account. I will not fail to keep you informed of future developments. I can assure you that my services will continue to follow closely the developments in Hong Kong and its impact on human rights, the security of our citizens and our economic interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u51	Mr Minister, the principle of "one country, two systems" which is precisely the basis of this agreement to protect Belgian and Luxembourg investments in Hong Kong is clearly eroded. That's the least we can say. It seems to me that this investment protection agreement could be one of our government's future approaches to China in our bilateral relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u52	Minister, the Chinese Embassy in Brussels reacted very violently and brutally to the article published in "La Libre" on 2 July, which reported on the State Security Report 2019, including the threats posed by Chinese students working at a university in Belgium. In this letter, the embassy accuses the newspaper of writing a "calumnious" report on Chinese students in Belgium. His spokesman stressed that they were "repeated lies, making defamatory accusations and snuggling around the "Chinese threat" that undermined the global partnership of friendship and cooperation between China and Belgium". Minister, this letter from the Chinese Embassy is not a first. In my view, it is a gross attack on the truth, on our intelligence services and on press freedom in our country and, in particular, on a journalist, Mr. Lamfalussy. It is part of a systematic strategy of intimidation of China against any country, person, media that publicly exposes the threat that China poses today in the concert of nations, as it violates the foundations of international relations, whether economic, human rights or the Charter of the United Nations. What was your reaction to this mail? Has China taken any further steps towards your department or state security following the publication of this report? Were these steps intimidating? In my parliamentary activity, for more than 20 years, this is not the first time that I have recorded Chinese approaches that I call intimidation. It is the only country in the world whose ambassador authorizes such steps. Is it not time to tell China that it is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u53	Mr Dallemagne, this matter falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Justice. As Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, I will therefore confine myself to the following information. Following the release on July 2, 2020 of the State Security Report 2019, the number 2 of the Chinese Embassy made an approach to my services the following day, July 3. On that occasion, he expressed Beijing's concerns, which challenged China's qualification as a threat. My services have merely taken note of the various comments made by the Chinese Embassy recalling that China is not the only country to have been mentioned in the State Security Report. With regard to the letter from the Chinese Embassy to "La Libre", it should be recalled that, on the basis of freedom of expression in our country, the Embassy has a right of reply which it has lawfully used. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that China's strategy of influence towards Western countries, its propaganda and disinformation activities, as was the case in particular during the VOCID-19 crisis, have for some time been the subject of careful monitoring and in-depth analysis within the EU in order to provide a joint and concerted response at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u54	Minister, thank you. I think that China's approach is more than a right of reply. It's really an intimidation. The vocabulary used is not what is expected of a diplomat, when he speaks of making defamatory accusations, repeated lies, etc. This is not part of the diplomatic relations expected of any third country. I stress that these approaches have effects because they are particularly aggressive and therefore tend to be accepted or de facto tolerated. These steps are intolerable. They are on our Parliament, on your government, on our intelligence services, because I know that steps have also been taken with regard to State Security. I don't think we should let that kind of thing happen. This is not part of what I would call or what you would call a right of reply. This is one of the approaches that I find intolerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u55	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the situation of the Uighur minority in China is worrying. Mainly Muslim, this population represents one of the 56 ethnic groups in the country. The Uighurs make up just under half of the 25 million people living in Xinjiang. Human rights organizations accuse China of having interned at least one million Muslims in the region, in what they call political rehabilitation camps. Beijing denies this figure and speaks of vocational training centres designed to help people find jobs and thus keep them away from extremism and terrorism. Uighurs are also reported to be subjected to forced sterilization. There is no shortage of reports on this subject. On 7 July last, in committee, you said that Belgium is associated with like-minded countries calling for Xinjiang's access to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and that you will continue to monitor the situation. If, of course, I welcome the positions taken by our country within the UN and the European Union, could you indicate to me, in the face of this particularly worrying situation, whether you have been able, in our bilateral relations, to address the question of respect for human rights, in particular for ethno-religious minorities, with the Chinese authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u56	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, like you, I am very concerned about the indications concerning the practices of organ removal, abortion and forced sterilization. I have taken note of the resolution that you are referring to in the Senate. Belgium's current policy in this area is fully in line with the content of the resolution. Thus, as part of the Belgian intervention during the Universal Periodic Review on China in November 2018, our country asked China to extend a standing invitation to the special procedures and to respond positively to the outstanding requests of the special rapporteurs to visit the country. Belgium also called upon China to ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. In addition, our country has formulated questions and recommendations on transparency regarding the death penalty and the importance of publishing statistics, as well as on the situation of ethno-religious minorities such as the Uighurs. All these themes are addressed in the above-mentioned resolution. Belgium has also joined several initiatives with like-minded countries calling on China to grant meaningful access to Xinjiang to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights both within the framework of the Human Rights Council and in the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. Our country also supports a strong and unified position of the European Union in relation to the human rights situation in China, including the rights of ethno-religious minorities, the death penalty and the forced removal of organs. These issues are raised in particular during the human rights dialogues between the European Union and China, the most recent being in April 2019. As you can see, Belgium is following the situation closely and will continue to follow up. The example is the Belgian support for the joint statement on 30 June in the framework of the Human Rights Council, where our country once again expressed our concern with like-minded countries about the human rights situation in Xinjiang. As with all other countries, human rights are an integral part of our bilateral relations with China. I can therefore assure you that Belgium systematically addresses the subject of human rights in its bilateral contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u57	Minister, I see that you share the findings of a large number of non-governmental organizations, of dedicated observers, but also of parliamentarians who voted this resolution in the Senate. Indeed, it is rather regrettable that some have preferred abstention to a positive vote. That being said, Minister, beyond the shared observations, there is obviously the method to be adopted to make the superpower aware that China cannot behave in this way vis-à-vis minorities not only by flouting fundamental rights but also by undermining the physical and psychological integrity of these people. The Uighurs are now a suffering people who can be said to be persecuted. This is totally unacceptable and we must give ourselves the means. As Belgians and as Europeans, we sit in international forums. We can therefore remind China that it cannot behave in this way and that it must, above all, adopt a completely different attitude, not only for the sake of respect for human dignity but also because we are the custodians of the international protection of human rights. This is one of our most essential missions in the concert of nations but also in the field of international relations. I count on you, Minister, to put this word beyond the point, to remind it whenever necessary so that, together with other countries concerned with the issue, we can move China in the desired direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u58	Mr Cogolati, in the run-up to the presidential elections scheduled for 9 August 2020, acts of harassment and detention of persons attempting to enjoy their fundamental freedoms, including their rights to freedom of expression, association to stand for election and peaceful assembly, have continued to increase. Detainees include a number of journalists trying to report on public gatherings as well as social media actors. As for presidential candidates, the picture is overwhelming. Candidate Tsikhanouski was arrested at the beginning of June. He is accused of assaulting the police and violating public order. Candidate Babaryko was arrested in early July. He's accused of money laundering. The third candidate of the pro-Western opposition, Valery Tsepkalo, was disqualified by the Central Electoral Commission. The Commission found that he had not obtained the sufficient number of signatures to be a candidate. I share your concern about the deterioration of the human rights situation in Belarus. Belgium has therefore not failed to express its concerns, both alone and with its partners in various forums. At the OSCE Permanent Council of 2 July 2020, the European Union, Norway, the United Kingdom and Canada joined forces to denounce the harassment and detention of persons attempting to enjoy their fundamental freedoms in Belarus. We called on the Belarusian authorities to ensure a free, fair, competitive, inclusive and transparent electoral process and to ensure that fundamental freedoms are respected and that every candidate, every elector, can exercise his or her civil and political rights without hindrance. More specifically, we called on Belarus to formally invite the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights as soon as possible to observe the forthcoming presidential elections. To date, the official invitation from the Belarusian authorities has not been sent to the Director of that Office. Unlike the previous elections, Belarus has decided to wait until the end of the process of accreditation of candidates by mid-July to send this invitation, which will allow the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights to organize a long-term electoral observation mission. In addition, the government reshuffle that was expected for the post-elections took place recently and was characterized by the entry of several hard profiles into the government - an additional sign of the regime's stiffening. At the current session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, Belgium participated in the interactive discussion with the Special Rapporteur on human rights in Belarus on the human rights situation in Belarus and expressed concern about the deterioration of the human rights situation in the pre-election phase. Our country has also co-sponsored the Council's resolution to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus. It was the European Union that took the initiative once again to extend the duration of this resolution. The red lines of the European Union were clearly crossed with the aforementioned arrests. Babaryko's has already given rise to a statement by the spokesperson, followed by tweets by the High Representative, Mr. Josep Borrell. Secondly, with our partners in the European Union, we continue to react to clear violations of fundamental freedoms. Finally, the travel notice for Belarus is currently negative. All essential travel outside the European Union, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway is prohibited until further notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. Finally, it is essential to guarantee free and democratic elections and to put an end to President Lukashenko's control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I would always like to stress these problems when things move in favour of or against the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, because the region in which I live fully with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It should be noted that 60 per cent of the working population work there and thus cross the border on a daily basis. We have learned this weekend that our country has attributed to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg the orange code in the direction of returns. Increased vigilance is therefore recommended. I would like to go back to the reasons that led to this decision. I read that the rate of infection is higher than that which is known in Belgium. Again, it seems to me that we compare two different situations. Indeed, our neighbour, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, like other countries, carries out an almost general test. It is therefore normal for the positive cases identified to be greater than elsewhere. It should be noted that 9,500 tests per week per 100,000 inhabitants are carried out against, according to my information, less than 1,000 tests per week per 100,000 inhabitants in neighbouring countries. In any case, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Grand-Ducal regularly refers to it. At the same time, during the period of confinement, we were able to experience ubiquitous situations where the borderers sometimes had to travel important routes to refuel on the ground that they could not travel to the neighbouring country. I draw attention here to the fact that there are Luxembourg enclaves in Belgium where access roads are only passing through Belgian territory. I therefore hope that we will no longer have to relive such a situation and that we will never again experience a complete closure of this border. Indeed, I really believe that the decision taken without weighting and taking into account the figures I have quoted is not acceptable if we want to be fair to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Mr Minister, what are the reasons for the changeover to the orange code for the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? Why was there no weighting? If there has been a weighting, have there been any exchanges with your Luxembourg counterpart? Can you compare the contamination rate between the two countries? Is a campaign to raise awareness of compliance with health measures envisaged or any other measures that would remind our borderers of the importance of increased vigilance and scrupulous respect for health measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u61	Mr Arens, I understand your concerns. Since the beginning of the crisis, I have closely followed the exceptional situation with our neighbouring countries. Within the government, exceptional measures have been developed for our compatriots living or working in border regions. Since the new method of travel advice, whereby the CELEVAL working group evaluates the epidemic situation in a third country using scientific parameters, Luxembourg has received our full attention. The level of infection published by the Luxembourg health authorities is higher than in other neighbouring countries. This is probably due to a broader testing policy, which logically means that the numbers of confirmed patients are higher. My two departments, the CELEVAL working group and I are in contact with our Luxembourg counterparts in order to properly integrate this scientific evidence into our analysis of travel advice. I have also called for a joint Belgian-Luxembourg committee to meet this week to implement the appropriate conclusions and policy measures. I stress that exceptional relations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the minimization of obstacles to movement between our two countries will always be central. These measures will be assessed on a permanent basis and will in no way last longer than is strictly necessary from the point of view of the health of our compatriots and our Luxembourg neighbours. For more information on epidemiological data, I should like to refer to my colleague Minister De Block. A specific campaign to make compatriots aware of the measures put in place for them seems to me to be a good proposal, which I will certainly submit to my colleague De Crem. The Foreign Affairs website contains a series of information both to leave the country and to enter it, and it is not Foreign Affairs that sets the epidemiological criteria for classifying a country in one of the three situations (no conditions, conditions of prudence, mandatory quarantine). We pass on the opinions communicated to us by CELEVAL.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm glad to see that you're close to what we're living there. I insist that there should be no further closure of this border. Please try to weigh these figures so that we can have a fairer approach to the reality of both countries. Today we are punishing the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg but also the people of the South of our country who live thanks to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u63	Given our relations and the proximity to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the fact that there are many cross-border workers going to work there, I would like to be more concrete in my answer. I would remind you that access to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg remains possible. Cross-borders can always go freely, without any particular restrictions. What are we talking about here for the passage into orange code which, I hope, will be as short as possible? For the time being, this concerns only those who are staying in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg only for tourist purposes. I take a very concrete example. Someone who returns from France and passes through the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg because it is on his way does not get imposed anything when he returns to Belgian soil. We are really talking about a touristic stay in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The so-called essential travel, so clearly business travel, is not affected by the elements just expressed. On the other hand, whether in our home, in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or in other countries, caution must be exercised regardless of the level of presence of the virus. We all know, we're not out of this crisis yet. Once again, we are called upon to comply with all the cautionary instructions that we are trying to put in place both at home and in our neighbours, so that this virus cannot again experience a second wave. I wanted to clarify this to reassure our friends who either come from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or wish to go there under the conditions we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u64	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I'm really counting on you because we've spent several months closing this border. In some of our villages, citizens had to travel tens of kilometres just to go to the grocery store and get food, while 50 metres from their home was the grocery store but on the grand-ducal side. Please, I hope we don't get to this point. I thank you, in any case, for your attention to this important problem in a region like ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u65	Minister, during its 2016 Universal Periodic Review (UPR) - a review of the human rights situation in UN member states - Belgium committed itself, inter alia, to "continue to prepare reports for all human rights mechanisms, including the Universal Periodic Review, in a timely manner and to cooperate with these mechanisms. The involvement of civil society organisations in this process will remain a key priority." It is up to the SPF Foreign Affairs, responsible for the process of preparing reports for the UN, to organize these meetings with civil society by February 2021, the date of submission of Belgium's national report in the framework of our country's third UPR - scheduled for April-May 2021 and postponed by three months, due to the crisis of the coronavirus. In previous reports, civil society complained that it had only been consulted on rare occasions at the end of the process and often at the last minute. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know whether, on the occasion of this third UPR, our country is committed to close and transparent consultation with civil society? If so, is a meeting programme with simultaneous interpretation already envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u66	Mr De Smet, during his last examination, Belgium followed a recommendation to involve civil society in the follow-up and implementation of accepted recommendations. In order to follow up, the Belgian authorities invited civil society organisations and independent public institutions to participate in an information and dialogue session on the implementation of the recommendations accepted in the second cycle of the Belgian UPR. This session took place on 19 December 2019 in Brussels. Eighty civil society organizations were invited to a round table with the administrations of federal and federated entities. Sixteen NGOs, three independent public institutions, the Supreme Council of Justice, Myria and Unia attended. As with the two previous meetings, a consultation with civil society on the Belgian draft report will once again be organised in time. Please note that the agenda has been delayed by the United Nations due to the VOCID-19 pandemic and that the Belgian UPR is now scheduled for May instead of January 2021. I would also like to stress that the Belgian national report is an activity report on the initiative of the Federal, Regional and Community Executives. It is not intended to reflect the concerns of civil society. As you are no doubt aware, the UPR process is based on three reports: a national report by the State concerned, a report by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, which consists of a compilation of United Nations information on the latter, and a report summarizing communications from stakeholders, i.e. civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic235x.u67	Minister, thank you for this complete and very satisfactory answer. For having been director of Myria in another life, I can testify that these relations and exchanges with the administration are considered by civil society and associations as very valuable moments that can contribute to the added value of Belgium's position and to respect for human rights in all the matters concerned. Thank you for your follow-up.
