ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u1	Colleagues, we begin our work with the hearing of the Debt Agency. I salute Messrs. Deboutte and Post came to make us their presentation. I suggest that you listen to them and then ask the questions necessary for the proper understanding of this hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to talk in this presentation about the strategy adopted by the Debt Agency for the management of public debt and its impact on the structure and on the interest charges of that sovereign debt. Afterwards, we would also discuss what is waiting for us in concrete terms in 2020, what is the financing plan and what we need to achieve here. In a final chapter we want to go into more detail about the products we use, including cash management, for which the Debt Agency is responsible, and perhaps discuss some aspects of government debt liquidity. First of all, I'd like to introduce you. The Belgian Debt Agency has been a public utility institution since early 2017. Previously it was a department of the General Administration of the Treasury. Even though we were transformed into an institution of public benefit in 2017, we actually largely retained the internal structure that we had before. This structure is based on three pillars, the functions of which actually speak for themselves. A first pillar, which we call the front office and which is led by my colleague Maric Post, deals with the operations in the financial market, i.e. loans and placements, including the closing of derivatives and also the management of cash. We will deepen this later, because it may be less known, but the agency also does the effective central treasury management of the federal state. In that department the relations with the banks, which we call dealers, are also managed. Of course, the financial markets are closely monitored. That is what we call the front office in the Debt Agency. Then in the middle is indeed the middle office. I'm specifically responsible for that. The middle office will define a strategy or proposals for debt management, will manage and monitor the risks and will actually submit and calculate the debt budget and follow on. The middle office also deals with the legal aspect. Finally, there are also products developed, communication with the press and investors, for example through the road shows with which we effectively visit investors worldwide. Then there is a third department, which is actually the back office, but more than that: not only back office, but also systems IT and HR. This will be led by a new director, whom we only recruited yesterday. On 16 March, Catherine Le Riche will act as director of the department. That back office does the payments of course and all validations, and the control of all transactions. There is also an IT or system department and of course the HR. Since we are an organism of public benefit, we also need our own HR policy in the Agency. And then there is a secretariat and an internal audit. All together we have a framework of 38 employees, of which 35 are currently present. We are still working on different recruitment procedures to fill that framework, because if you look at it in full-time equivalents, there are only 33.7 employees, because two employees are almost permanently seconded. So actually there are just over 30 people today, and that's pretty tight, given all the technical and specialized functions, and the fact that we have to make things strong every day. The recruitments are in full swing and we think that we will soon be able to complete our framework. That's a sketch of the agency. We shall come back to that when we have discussed the blame and the strategy a little more broadly. The agency is solely responsible for federal government debt. The federal government debt is always viewed with glasses of government debt and debt. The broader concept of debt is being studied more than the federal debt. That is why we need to look at public debt and debt levels as a first step forward. We have a rather positive picture of the past few years, because the Belgian debt rate has fallen over the last five years, since the peak of 2014. The question is what level it dropped to at the end of last year. The National Bank advanced 99.1 % in December as a figure before the end of the year and the government mentioned 99.4 % a few days ago. However, both figures are provisional because it is still too early to make an initial official estimate. This will not be communicated to Eurostat until 31 March by the National Statistical Institute. What I think is quite certain is that there was another decrease in 2019 and that this will give us for the first time since 2008 a two-digit debt ratio, less than 100 %, which is always important to achieve. I think this is about certain, but exactly how much it is, we won't see for a few months. There is therefore a five-year decrease from the level 107 %, i.e. almost 8%, slightly faster than the increase we had seen in the five years preceding 2014. As a result, public debt will remain a small 15% higher than the euro area average. That's also on the chart. The evolution of the Belgian level of debt relative to that of the euro area is quite similar. The euro area has also fallen by about 7%. We must also wait for the figure to be at the end of 2019, but we expect that the difference between Belgian and European debt levels will remain fairly stable and that we can therefore show the same evolution until 2019. We also see the projection for 2020. There you can see that the trend would seem to be broken. Again, it is figures from the National Bank of December 2019, which for 2020 were based on a stabilisation. That means it can go up or down. This depends on a number of factors, which no one can control, such as inflation. There's a chance we're going back to 100 percent. I hope not, but it's possible. Based on the current forecasts, debt levels would no longer fall by 2020, but we have seen a decline, which is appreciated not only by investors, but also by rating agencies, the Commission and the EMF. That is the current situation of the overall level of debt in Belgium. We only manage part of the debt, but it's a big part. It is still too early to give the 2019 figures, but in 2018 the debt at federal government level was 82% of total government debt. So there's a fairly large package of government debt in the federal government. By the end of 2018, that was €391.7 billion. In the Agency, we put forward 389 billion euros by the end of 2018. That's not exactly the same number. The federal government also includes institutions such as Infrabel or APETRA, whose debt we do not manage, but they do belong to the federal government. Therefore, the amount of debt we manage ourselves is slightly smaller. Of course, we do not take the consolidation into account either. We also do not take into account in our figures who holds the debt. By the end of 2018, we could say that we had EUR 389 billion in debt under control. It's a debt that's gone up. We did have that figure by the end of 2019, to EUR 393.6 billion debt under our own management. That's a bit more than in 2018. We see in the graph that the debt at the level of the federal government has risen nominally over the past few years. Global government debt has also increased by several billion euros a year in nominal terms. The rate of debt did indeed fall, because, fortunately, GDP rose more than debt. In 2018, we were at 100 % GDP. This will be slightly less at the end of last year: 99,1 % or 99,5 %. So we manage most of the debt, but it's not everything. How can we talk about this guilt? How can we suggest them? It is a famous package of money, but what exactly does that mean for Belgium in terms of risks? What does it mean? One of the traditional ways in which the debt can be proposed and understood is to look at the maturity calendar. That calendar shows us the moments when we have to repay a certain debt. For example, for 2066, which is the last year we have shown here on the chart, there is an amount of about EUR 5 billion. This means that investors have made money available to us up to 2066. So we must not repay that amount before 2066. They cannot oblige us to take back those debts. We have that money for a period of almost 50 years. It is also important that we know exactly what coupon to pay on an annual basis for that part of the debt until 2066. After all, all debts incurred are of the fixed rate type. We have very few debts with floating interest rates, which also means that these debts give a fairly good predictability of interest charges for the coming years and sometimes even some of the debts up to 2057 or up to 2066. Of course, there will be a few more due dates in the coming years. That's because sometimes we spend debts in five years. It's also about something dynamic. In 2021, the schedule will be slightly different, because we will have issued new loans. You can also see that the amounts to be repaid in the coming years are rather limited in terms of long-term debt. For example, this is EUR 18 billion for 2020. In 2021, that's even a little less. It peaks slightly in 2022 with an amount of EUR 30 billion. I can also tell you that we have instruments to level things out. The refund doesn't have to be as volatile as it looks here. There's a certain volatility. On average, for the next ten years, we will have about EUR 22 billion in long-term debt, which we need to refinance. I'm talking about refinancing right now. Maybe I'm going a little too fast right now, but public debt is different from family debt. When a private person or a family makes debts, it is assumed that the repayment will be made, that at some point it will be removed and that the debts will disappear. For example, anyone who retires at the end of his career wants to be debt-free. This is usually not the case with a government. This applies not only to Belgium, but also to other countries. We assume that we will have to refinance most of the debts due on their due date. For example, in 2020 there will be debts of EUR 18 billion on their due date. It is no secret that we do not have a surplus of EUR 18 billion in our budget. We have EUR 9 billion and that amount is also a deficit. So we are EUR 27 billion away from the goal of repaying all debts by 2020. This means that, like the previous years, we will have to refinance all debts that come to their due date. That is also the fate of most other countries, where most of the debt will be refinanced. What does that mean for us? The scheme immediately gives an idea of the risk there is, because if you have to refinance, you will be exposed to possibly higher interest rates, which you do not know and which might be very bad at the time. The fact that we have spread the duration is, of course, important for the risks, as we shall see later. I have not yet talked about the large block of short-term debt that is also on it and that will also be completely renewed in 2020. We are globally active in two markets: the long-term debt market and the short-term debt market. Short-term debts are debt at less than 12 months. This is also called the money market. This is a separate segment of the financial market, where highly liquid instruments are traded. There is a great deal of trade in these instruments and we also get very low interest rates there. The lowest interest rates are usually for very short-term instruments. We are also active in that market, because it offers certain advantages. It is also interesting to not always count on the same product: diversification is also a matter of risk management. We currently have some EUR 38 billion in short-term debt, which is constantly being refinanced: some of these debts are out for a few days, some a few months. So there is always a kind of short-term debt that is'sold over' to the following years. We naturally take part in our risk calculations that we will have to do so, even though we know that we are very likely to refinance this debt through new short-term debt. That is not mandatory: we can refinance a piece in the long term or we can also increase short-term debt, but it has remained broadly stable between EUR 30 and 40 billion in recent years. That is actually the overall picture of our debt, which gives you an idea that we will be faced with. Many of the risks we measure and follow, therefore, have to do with that refinancing scheme. The first, most intuitive measure we have to measure our risk is therefore the average repayment time or the average duration of the debt, as we call it. It runs over the whole schedule and will therefore actually measure the weighted average of the time on which we have to repay. At the moment, that's almost ten years. According to the guidelines of the Minister of Finance, we have to keep them over nine years. Moreover, we will see that the average duration has been considerably extended in recent years and that we are therefore in a better position in terms of risk management than in the past. The average duration of repayment therefore gives an initial intuitive and direct measurement of the risk we face with the sovereign debt. However, that is not enough. After all, one can imagine a situation in which the average is in itself comfortable for a long time, but that we still have very difficult due dates at certain times, for example in the coming years. That is why we are also going to follow the part of the debt that we have to refinance as a percentage in the short term, 12 months, and in the medium term, 5 years. There too, limits have been set. At 12 months we have an absolute limit of 17.5 %. Thus, including short-term debt, no more than 17.5% of the total debt may be renewed in 12 months. For the 5 year period, the limit is 42.5 %. These are the three main parameters that we are structuralally following and also predicting. The strategy is, of course, aimed at meeting this. We can manage this dynamically, also through the Secretary of State's general guidelines. Let me now give you the evolution of the average length of time that has been fairly commented on in recent years. The average duration is now slightly below ten years, but it has not always been. We come from an average duration of six years or even a little less, just after the financial and economic crisis of 2008 and 2009. This meant that after six years half of the debt had to be refinanced. This obviously seems less comfortable, because it gives the idea that people are exposed to a number of risks. The fact that this duration had become so low, including due to the crisis, inspired us to work on an extension of the average duration from then on. That extension was rather substantial, since we are now two thirds higher with an average of almost ten years. The fact that we extended this was also accompanied by a reduction in the average cost of debt. The line you see there is the average interest rate paid on the total outstanding debt from 2009 to the present. We see there that we know almost half the average cost. Probably only this year we will get a real half cut, but in 2009 we still paid an average of 3.81 % on the total debt. Last year it had fallen to an average interest rate of 2%. Each of these evolutions separately would have meant very good news. After all, we now have a much less risky position and at the same time the price is almost halved. There is therefore an extension of almost two thirds of the duration and at the same time the cost is almost halved. This is not going to happen every ten years, but it has happened over the last ten years, which was, of course, very positive. It may also be interesting to look at the average duration in an international comparison. For example, the debt ratio of each euro area country can be set against the average duration. In theory, countries with most debts, including Belgium, are best able to monitor the risks of their debt and try to reduce them by extending the duration. That is what one would theoretically expect, and that is also confirmed by the figures. For example, last year's figures show that there is a certain statistical correlation between debt rate and duration. Countries such as Luxembourg or Estonia have a very low level of debt and have a duration of about four years. Countries with a debt ratio close to 60% to 70%, such as Ireland or Austria, have an overall duration of nine to ten years. Belgium has a duration of almost ten years for a debt rate of 100 %. That puts us perfectly on the calculated statistical regression line. We also see that for the category of countries with a high debt ratio the ambition or the possibility of extending the duration has become somewhat more difficult, or perhaps we simply do not want to extend it. This leaves Portugal and Italy a little behind. They combine a high level of debt with less duration. Cyprus has a debt rate like Belgium and is at six years old. That was the level we were at ten years ago. If we had done nothing about it, we would now be at Cyprus level, with a debt rate of 100%, and we would be out of tune, because the greatest risks are where high debt rates are combined with a low duration. The best situation is the opposite. Most countries are in between, but there is a relationship in this area. At present we are not planning to extend the duration further. That wasn't our advice either. Nor has the Minister amended the directives. Ten years is more than good enough. We are already with the better ones in the euro area. There was some discussion last year after the publication of a study by the National Bank on the cost of that strategy, because if you borrow in the long term, you almost always pay extra costs. That makes sense. After all, investors only give money in the longer term if a higher interest rate is set against it. So it is obvious that there was indeed a cost. We had previously considered them to be very limited. We were therefore a little surprised that the National Bank was able to simulate another strategy, namely to do nothing and stay at a duration of six years, until a certain high cost came that we did not expect. That is why we have looked at what has happened in reality. It is interesting to see that in a European perspective, in terms of annual cost of debt in the budget, the decline in Belgium has been very important. We went from 3.6 % to 2.1 %. We are talking here about full government debt, because there are no figures available from the other countries with regard to central or federal debt, so we take everything with us. The Eurostat figures show that we have fallen from 3.6 % interest costs to 2.1 %. So that's 1.5%. Compared to the euro area's ten largest economies, we are doing very well at that level. Only Germany has experienced a reduction which is slightly larger, i.e. 1,6 %. This type of graph depends, of course, not only on the interest we pay or on the strategy, but also on whether there is much or little debt, because then, of course, we pay a lot of interest costs. It is easier to show a good result for Belgium than for Finland, which did not even pay 1.5 % at the start of the ride. We must therefore be careful about this. A first observation is that in any case the strategy we have followed, which was aimed at reducing risks and which indeed had a certain cost, has not prevented us from having a very sharp reduction in budgetary interest costs over the last ten years. In order to be able to compare it entirely with other countries, we have not only compared interest charges but also interest rates themselves. For each country, based on Eurostat's figures, which give both the degree of debt and the interest charges, one can calculate ex post what was actually the average interest rate paid by that country on its government debt. For us, it goes back to 3.6 % and 2.1 %, because by chance we were at 100 % of public debt. The interest charge therefore corresponds to the interest rate. That is not the case for other countries. That really gives you the opportunity to compare, to see what the cost has been. After all, other countries have also extended their duration for a long time, but not as much as Belgium. It could therefore be expected that this cost will come forward in this area. Turns out it's not. However, it appears that many countries have seen a very similar fall in average interest rates on their debt. For most countries, interest rates have fallen by between 1.4 and 1.5 %. It looks like an ex aequo, because it is rounded to one digit after the comma. If you take two digits after the decimal point, Belgium is back in second place, after Germany. Germany had an average interest rate which fell by 1.8 % in 10 years. In Belgium, it is 1.5 %, just as much as in Austria and the Netherlands, but better than, for example, France, with a decrease of 1.3 %. France therefore did not achieve this extension of the duration in relation to Belgium. This graph confirms what we thought in advance, namely that the cost of the strategy with which we made the debt much safer was very limited. We were talking about 0.1% of GDP and not about the figure published by the National Bank. These are the real figures for the past few years and we certainly wanted to present them here. This reduction in interest charges was, of course, only possible because interest rates on the market have become very low. Interest rates again broke historical records in August last year. Since then, as you can see, there has been a slight increase in interest rates in the fourth quarter of last year, but it did not go very far. The absolute levels remained very low. This year we first had the effect of the coronavirus that was felt on the market, but the market has recovered very quickly. This also applies to the other markets. Now we have interest rates again as in the fourth quarter of last year. This means that even now half of our government bonds are still quoted at negative interest rates. That is the reality we are facing today. The ten-year interest rate is negative, at 0.04%, even today. All interest rates on shorter terms than 10 years are even lower. For positive interest rates one must go to deadlines above 10 years. That is the situation so far, a very positive situation. Compared to other countries, we have actually done very well in recent months. Especially in relation to France, we have an almost equal interest rate, while that of our early 2019 was somewhat higher. The performance of Belgium is therefore certainly appreciated by investors. As interest rates fall, the price of our bonds rises. That is very positive for them. In short, as far as interest rates spreads are concerned, Belgium is very close to other countries, for example to Germany, with a spread of less than 30 basis points. That is almost the minimum of the values we have seen since 2008. We're not the only country that's doing well. Even Italy has very low interest rate differentials with Germany. The situation is therefore very good for the time being. To end this hatch, I'd like to take a look ahead. We have projected the expectations for interest charges. A first projection, here in blue, takes into account forward interest rates, which are sometimes seen as a prediction for future interest rates. Those forward interest rates are slightly rising. But that doesn't mean that interest charges wouldn't fall anymore. Even if we take into account rising interest rates, interest charges in nominal terms could fall by around EUR 2 billion over the next five years. This could mean 0.6% in percentage points of GDP. Here we are again at the level of our own federal debt. Where we paid 1.77 % of GDP last year to interest rates, this could fall to 1.18 % according to this projection, which was made a few months ago. Another projection is that in which interest rates are kept constant. If we left the September interest rates, which were very low, unchanged for the following years, the fall would not be EUR 2 billion but EUR 3 billion in annual interest charges. That would be a decrease in percentage points of GDP of 0.80%. In this way, we would actually achieve levels of just under 1% of GDP for federal government debt, which probably still means slightly more for government debt, i.e. 1.1 % to 1.2 % of GDP, but that remains special and historically low in that scenario. Even in the forwards scenario, with some safety margins that we use to propose budget calculations, there is still a substantial decrease, especially from 2022 onwards. That has to do with the high due dates during that period. Despite the fact that the duration of the debt is long, there are still a lot of interest rates falling, so even in the scenario of slightly higher interest rates. That's the big story of the interest charges and the strategy. I propose that we now move on to the presentation on the tactical challenges of the Debt Agency, which my colleague will present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Jean Deboutte has outlined the broader framework of recent years. I will indeed go a little further into the practical details of our funding. I am looking very specifically at what we have to do this year. The figure of our gross financing needs has already been mentioned and you can see that in the top of the table. There is the large amount of EUR 18.46 billion. That is the repayment of long-term debt due this year. That is a first, and ultimately the most important, element to be refinanced by 2020. What we call pre-funding has also been mentioned, and I would like to add it immediately. It's right underneath the table. It is about the buy-back of future long-term debt that comes to maturity. Why do we do that? It has to do with the reimbursement schedule that we have just shown. In some years there are large peaks, larger amounts to be paid back than in other years. In the years with smaller refunds, we benefit from buying back part of the future debt of the years with larger repayments. In this way we manage our due date calendar somewhat. To this end, this year we will provide a small EUR 3 billion, which we will need as a means of financing. Then, of course, there is the net balance to be financed. This year's figure is EUR 9.60 billion. For a very important piece, this consists of interest charges. In this 9,60 billion there is a very large amount of interest that we have to pay back this year. That actually means that there is no positive primary cash balance left of the other state revenue and expenditure to repay interest payments this year. This means that this year, when we sum up these elements, we expect to have to finance a total of 31.46 billion. Each year we plan what we are going to do and how we will finance these amounts in the coming year. Well, we are providing for long-term debt issues of 30 billion. You can see that in the bottom half of the table. Mostly that will be achieved by issuing our most liquid instrument, especially the OLOs. Then there is a small envelope, as every year, for more flexible products. Those are the EMTN or Schuldscheine we can spend. It is also about bonds, but we can issue them more tailored to the needs of certain investors, and these are not our most liquid instruments. Then I come to the balance, to what we actually have to finance, at the top, and what we are going to spend as a new long-term debt. We anticipate this by increasing short-term debt. In the chart, in the bar diagram, you have seen the yellow bar, which represents the outstanding short-term debt. Well, we think that this year they will increase slightly in order to finance the total financing requirement of 31.46 billion. It is important to note that this amount of 31.46 billion to be financed is a lot higher than we had anticipated in recent years. We were actually expecting this, and we have also announced in recent years that the amount to be financed might be somewhere in the order of 23 billion by 2020. However, we are a lot higher. What is important to us is that, despite this perhaps disappointing budgetary reality, we can still present a financing plan by 2020 which remains in line with previous years. We should not suddenly finance much more in the financial markets. You can see that last year we also financed some 30 billion by issuing long-term debt. Well, we're actually doing exactly the same thing this year. The reason why we can do this is, of course, the extension of the average maturity of the debt we have carried out in recent years. The reduction in refinancing risks allows us to absorb a disappointing year in terms of budgetary results, as we now have one, without having to finance a significantly larger amount on the market. More positive news is that we started the year well in that respect. We made our first long-term debt transaction in January, and we were able to raise EUR 6 billion immediately. So that is already 20% of the amount of long-term debt that we want to achieve this year. We were able to do that on the interest of the savings book, at 0.11 %. So we have been able to do our first financing transaction this year. So that's a windfall at the beginning of the year. For the rest of the year, we provide for a new OLO line for further funding. Here it was a new OLO at 10 years. We have announced that the OLO we still wish to issue will have a duration of between 15 and 20 years. The rest of the amount will be collected mainly by issuing existing OLO lines. We will re-open it in so-called calls for tenders, and we will increase the existing OLO lines. In this way, we want to raise the rest of the 28 billion we hope to fund through OLOs. I would like to mention that one of the OLOs that we will also raise this year is our green OLO. You know we first issued a green bond two years ago. This year we are planning to increase the amount outstanding. I would like to briefly guide you through the agency's day-to-day practice and how that looks. Of course, we do not decide to finance EUR 30 billion overnight. That goes in small steps. That is why it might be interesting to outline the functioning of the administration of the State Treasury, which is ultimately done by the Agency. Managing the State Treasury is ultimately nothing but managing the central account of the federal state at the National Bank, sending it in such a way that it has a non-negative balance at any time, at every end of the day. This must therefore always be concluded with a positive balance. That central account at the National Bank of the Federal State is affected by the transactions we make. If we're gonna borrow money, that money's gonna come into that account. If we have to pay interest, it'll go from that account. It is also influenced by other things. She's influenced by all federal receipts and all federal expenses. This is done through a separate account system managed by bpost, the financial item, the so-called 679 account system. That works in a system of zero balancing. All the funds on that system in the evening are centralized into the National Bank's central account, so that we manage all the federal government funds within the Agency at any time. This gives you an overview over the time of the realization of a financing plan. What we are showing here is all the expenditure we have just seen in the different categories of the different components of our financing plan. The large orange blocks are the repayments of long-term debt, as they realize throughout the year. The blue planes up there are the interest payments we have to do. You'll see the green cubes up there. That is the realization of the State Treasury outside financial management. These are the revenue of the State and the payments made by the State throughout the year. That's a notion of a primary cash balance. The green balance just ended last year in the positive, as you can see. This year, on the basis of the provisional budget as presented, it is zero. We'll reach zero for the green boxes. This means that we will have to pay our interest costs in full this year, plus our repayments of our debt plus, what we have underneath, buyback of long-term debt securities. This is how the evolution of our greenhouse will look throughout the year if we do nothing and do not manage that greenhouse. The management we are opposed to is, of course, the mirror of the expenditure we have just shown. This management again consists of two components: on the one hand, the long-term debt that we incur, namely the blue blocks, and, on the other hand, the management of the state treasury in the short term. As you can see, at the end of the year, about all the debt that we accumulate throughout the year has been consolidated into long-term debt. You will see that in 2019 we had to finance around EUR 35 billion in total. We have received more than EUR 32 billion of this amount through the sale of long-term debt securities. That is the paradox I wanted to mention here. In our day-to-day management, the management of public funds and debt is largely short-term transactions. By far the majority of the financial transactions in the succession of the state treasury, which we are working on every day, are actually very short-lived. It is very often about rolling forward or re-financing short-term debts, whether they are placements in the very short term. Ultimately, only about 3% of the total transactions we conclude on an annual basis are long-term transactions. As we have just mentioned, there are two parts of our management. There are, on the one hand, money market operations, which constitute the majority of the number of transactions. There are, on the other hand, transactions in debt instruments and debt securities, which represent a limited part of the number of transactions. At the end of the year, however, they almost make up the quasi-totality of our debts. That is the situation for the part of the debt managed by the Debt Agency. As you can see, the large mass of these, 93 percent of the debt instruments we manage, are our standardised long-term products, namely linear bonds or OLOs. It is important that we concentrate those volumes in those liquid instruments. The importance of this is, in fact, double. Public debt is an important financial asset for many people active in the financial markets. For such players in the financial markets, sovereign debt has one very important feature, namely its liquidity. In the sense that it is very easy to buy and sell sovereign debt. This is accompanied by a very limited cost, which is very important for investors. For us it is important to keep that debt liquid because it allows us to reduce the cost of the debt. The more liquid the instrument is, the less investors will ask for a premium for the illiquidity of that instrument and the cheaper we will be able to finance ourselves. It also gives us great transparency on the pricing of new debt, which allows us to spend the debt on a return that is entirely in line with the other outstanding debt instruments. How do we ensure the liquidity of that debt in the markets? This is an important point. This is done by a group of banks, which are referred to by us every year, the so-called primary dealers. They provide liquidity on the market by making permanent prices for investors for that debt, purchase prices and sales prices. They are doing this very successfully, because the turnover of Belgian debt, the turn-over we see on the financial markets of our debt, has increased considerably in recent years. The Belgian debt is liquid in such a way that the full amount of outstanding OLOs changes hands more than 1.25 times each year. Thus, all this outstanding sovereign debt is traded between customers or between customers and banks at least once a year. Those volumes are very large. That liquidity is as important to investors as it is to us. I just want to say one thing about that group of primary dealers. A phenomenon that has grown in recent years is that this group is getting smaller. Not only in Belgium but also internationally, we see that there is a concentration of action that is linked to the very important investments needed to continue supporting this activity, because this requires very large investments in technology. Today, in fact, this trade in debt securities is, to a large extent, carried out by artificial intelligence, which is machines that make permanent prices and respond to what is happening on the market. All the infrastructure needed to provide that liquidity and support those investments means that there is a concentration in that group of primary dealers. That is a focus for us within the Debt Agency. Which way does that go, will new players develop in it, will that not become too small a group in the long run? These are questions that we must also bear in mind in future. I want to leave it at that. We are open to your questions on these subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u4	Gentlemen, I thank you for your eloquent presentation on the quality of the work done and very informative. My question is related to state finances in a way. I assume you are aware of the Court of Auditors' report announcing that if it were to certify Belgium's accounts, it would not. Do you think that non-certification or qualified certification can have an impact on your operations? Could this increase the Belgian debt or the operators who make this type of state financing do not take into account this kind of – forgive me the phrase – "details"?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate you, because it is not every day that I see a government institution that performs so well. Unfortunately, we have not been able to convert that into excesses: you spoke of 1.5 % less at 10 years. That is EUR 5 to 6 billion. Given what you are doing, this means EUR 2 to 3 billion for the following years. I would like to make a general comment: structures of the government that are very professional, limited and well structured. It also reminds me that it is good, as has been said, that we adapt our accounting standards to time, because it makes little sense for the State to set up sales and lease-back operations, on which it will contract much higher interest rates and drag them along over several years. I have a specific question. You said you're working with a number of policies. If I understand correctly, you are not obliged to renew 17 % annually and 42 % in five years. Can you place that in relation to the politics that is being pursued in other countries? I shall confine myself to that question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the very clear presentation and the good documentation. I have two very small, punctual questions. We heard the people of Febelfin two weeks ago. The banking sector is concerned about European interest rate policy and low interest rates. Where this is a rather negative aspect for the banks, it seems to me to be more positive to you. How do you see that in general? How do you think interest rate policy should evolve in the future? You also talked about the number of dealers where there is a concentration going on. Doesn't that create an extra risk? Is there a certain risk of monopoly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the N-VA Group, I would like to express my sincere thanks for your presence and your very clear statement. We had prepared a dozen questions, but I will have to delete a few because you have already answered them, which is in your favour. It is also reassuring that our sovereign debt is apparently in good hands with you. With the third director, Mrs. Le Riche, things are getting better. What's in a name ... I come to my specific questions. You plan to borrow 31.46 billion by 2020. That's 2 to 3 billion less than the provisions. On the other hand, the forecasts were 23 billion. Where do these differences come from? Could you give us a more specific explanation? You plan to spend some 28 billion on OLOs by 2020, of which 6 billion has already been realized. At what rate will the rest be issued, given the current low interest rate? Could you give us some further information on the so-called green OLOs? Indeed, there is a relatively large decline in gross state debt. Is it only the result of the abolition of the Silver Fund or have other factors contributed to this? I also agree with the question put by Mr Dieter Vanbesien on the policy of the ECB. The low interest rate has persisted for some time, but it remains an exceptional situation. What measures can you take or what weapons do you have in your hands in case interest rates rise again? How will we be able to arm ourselves against this? We still have relatively high public debt. What structural measures do you think are possible to bring them down effectively? A decline in public debt will obviously not be evident, given the limited budgetary resources. What suggestions can you possibly make to politics to move the 100 % of public debt towards 60%, as Europe recommends?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u8	I will not repeat colleagues' questions. I have three specifics. Firstly, the day before yesterday we met a new credit rating agency that I had never heard before, a German credit rating agency that suddenly says that there is an increased risk. How do you estimate that? Where's that coming from? I've never heard it before. I've never heard of Scope Ratings. That's probably me? Suddenly that's news. Secondly, as regards the directives on duration, you said that the average minimum duration is 9 years. The guidelines have been confirmed by the Minister of Finance, I hear? What criteria do you use for this? My gut says we'd better go to a 12-year duration. Apparently, that gut feeling is right. I'm sure that's right. Anyway, what criteria do you use for that? Thirdly, I have a very specific question. I don't understand something. On page 7 you indicate the composition of the consolidated government debt, which you divide up. What concept of "social security" do you use there? We could assume that social security no longer builds up debt by means of a balanced settlement. I suspect you're using another notion of "social security." Can you describe that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u9	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the officials of the Debt Agency. I'd like to know what the profile of our creditors is. Out of 100 creditors, what is the share of foreign states, sovereign wealth funds, Belgian or foreign banks, individuals who have subscribed loans – let us recall the Leterme loan – and even of unidentified operators who are present on international markets? What is the profile of creditors in the broad categories? Are foreign countries distinguished by the acquisition of Belgian bonds, as has been the case in the past, with oil countries in particular? When you borrow at a negative rate, how does that happen in practice? Is there a discount on the refund? Do we get a check? Is there a rebate reduction? Can you give us more details about this? What is the situation in a context such as this where the two curves join together? I am thinking of lower interest rates and shorter repayment periods. What about hedging operations? In other words, what is your current policy in terms of hedging operations? Are there hedging operations of varying magnitude to cover you against interest rate risks, for example? Given the rating and low interest rates, I imagine that we are no longer so faced with a situation that requires non-reimbursement insurance on behalf of our creditors? In one way or another, is Belgium no longer a factor in collateral transactions to cover a risk of non-reimbursement, hence the non-solvency of the Belgian State? For the rest, you are being asked questions that, in my view, do not fall within your remit, such as the question of how to reduce debt. This question must be asked to other people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u10	Thank you for all these questions. We'll try to take them in order. If we forget a question, we may have to rest it after. First question. Personally, I have also seen this message passed from the Court of Auditors, which does not give much confidence. What is non-certification? I think my colleague saw him, too. We didn't study it at the Agency. I hope it's not too bad. Is this something about the detailed accounts, the statistics of Belgium, which nobody knows and which has no influence on the big figures such as the debt rate, GDP growth, the deficit? Now, in my opinion, it can go through without a problem. I think we can imagine that in other countries there are sometimes... it's still a challenge to have national accounts. It is not obvious to know the GDP. On the other hand, let's admit that, from time to time, it makes sense and it also changes for the past. Everyone understands that this is not an exact figure. Here, it's a little scary. But I have to admit, no one else called us to ask us what's going on. At the level of banks, investors, so far, there may be no problem. But is there anything going to come out? If Eurostat tomorrow publishes "everything we've said about Belgium, it's not true, the debt was higher", one can think of a Greek scenario in the worst case scenario. You can see what it's been like with Greece. It can be very strong. The magnitude, the idea, what accounts, how, is it a simple requalification from one position to another? As long as the deficit remains what it is, as long as the debt remains the same, investors, even even rating agencies, and even the IMF, will not cause any big problems. For me, it's a question mark. I don't know if Mr. Post knows any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u11	No, I don't know any more. But in fact, I think investors are looking at the big figures of the economy, of the debt. If this is more of a detail, I imagine there will be no great reaction. If this were to come out in an official report, it could suddenly require the attention of the market, and it could then react to that kind of detail, that's for sure. But I don't feel that way, a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u12	After that we had a question from Mr Leysen, I think. Thank you for the congratulations, by the way, but I am the first to say that it is also the work of the ECB, which has given us the great fall in interest rates. That has nothing to do with the agency; we are, of course, trying to use it in a way that hopefully was the right one. Where do the percentages 17,5 and 42 % come from? A few years ago, we agreed at European level to follow these risk parameters centrally. Within the euro area sovereigns, as we call them, these risk parameters are being monitored somewhat, because, of course, there is a direct link between the rates of refinancing and the risks involved in the cost of debt. The more one has to refinance, the more there are risks. We have actually calculated in advance the cost of certain risks and the risks associated with the increase in interest rates. Those levels actually came out as ceilings that we could maintain and, even though they have been reduced compared to the past, given our sovereign debt, they are still quite high. The question has just been asked about the Scope credit rating agency. The credit rating agency's report warns of a mistake: even after debt management with the extension of the duration, on which we are indeed positive, there is still an important package to be financed every year. But that is actually the result of the fact that we are so guilty and not of the duration. So again, the relationship between that duration and the risks is important. Since we are very guilty, we do have to work in the long term. This ultimately results in an average risk position. What we have done in terms of strategy is not even exaggerated. Maybe we could go even further. We will answer later why we are not going any further, but it was certainly not excessive to extend the duration and thus record those risks. At the moment we've shown the graphs. We're below 17.5; we're at 14 %. We're also at 59 percent in five years. We're actually on the lowest level ever. We have looked at what was the refinancing risk against GDP in the 1990s. We got there up to 40 % at 12 months. One cannot imagine the risk that was at the time, in the early 1990s. So we've come a long way. The risks are generally accepted as being normal. In theory, we could go a little further, but we're definitely a little coordinated. These are the parameters that are being followed, also seen at European level, and with which we are reasonably well placed. Then we had a question from Mr Vanbesien about Febelfin. Indeed, on the banking side, and perhaps even on the insurance side, let's not forget that we are faced with low interest rates. We have long seen the signs that it is difficult for them. At the same time, we can see that, despite everything, the interest margins of the banks and insurers are still quite comfortable. They're not very high anymore, but they're still pretty good. We hope that there will be no problems there, because for us, for this part of the government, it is of course very positive. We follow that closely. We also get questions from investors about the financial sector. I can only say that the opinion of foreign investors and credit rating agencies on our financial sector is positive compared to other countries. That was completely different ten years ago, because our country was hit very hard and very quickly. Then it was really a negative point. I have the impression that our country's financial sector is at present viewed more as a positive point by credit rating agencies and investors, despite the difficult environment of low interest rates, which also applies in most other countries. In this respect, of course, we are seeing it happen and we hope that it can all remain under control. I assume that the situation is difficult, but we can see that the margins remain a bit. The problems of the financial sector are probably also greater than those of low interest rates. For example, there is also the competition from fintech, which is at least as big a problem. We are following that, but we are aware that what has happened here is not as good news for everyone as it is for the state treasury. The question of the number of dealers is a very valid question, which I will have answered by Mr Post.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u13	That's why I'm bringing it to your attention. The issue has already reached the international financial press this year, because it is actually a broader trend that is taking place. For us in concrete terms, it hasn't had that much impact. We had a group of 13 primary dealers and we fell back this year at 12. Last year ING, also a bank with strong Belgian roots, withdrew from that activity. So we still have a group of 12 international banks working very competitively for us, but we certainly have to be careful: how small is this group and how large is the group of American business banks? They are important and very strong in this. Those are the elements that we are following and which we need to pay attention to. It is also a bit related to technological developments, as I said. This activity requires a great deal of investment. There may be new players in this area, for example fund managers who are very active in the financial market and who, if they so wish, could play a similar role. It is a matter that we must follow up with a view to the future. At the moment, there is no need to worry, but we must monitor it closely. In doing so, we are thinking about how this group of banks is compensated for the work they do. The remuneration of such a group of banks is actually that they are given a role in new bonds that we issue. Every time we issue a new OLO, we make a selection of a group of banks, usually four or five. Those banks can earn commission income on the work they're doing for us at that time. Of course, that means that the payout will be digital. Whether or not banks are part of that group, we determine on the basis of a very precise ranking that we keep with those dealers. However, this also means that there is a risk that some banks will get nothing for several years in a row. Some banks therefore tell us that in the long term this is no longer sustainable for them. They do bear the cost of the investments, of the work they have to do in them, but they do not have their income on a regular basis. That's what we're thinking about. As a major publisher, we may be able to change the way that commission revenue is paid, so that everyone can join in. I think I have answered your question with a number of elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u14	The N-VA Group asked the question about the evolution of our needs. Where did it come from that we did have more all of a sudden? Until recently, we had an extremely comfortable situation, almost too comfortable, because in the end, debt must also be spent occasionally in order to remain in the market and to ensure liquidity in the products. Bankers were almost worried that we were not renewing enough or that the duration became so long that it would become counterproductive in the long run. That has now been resolved somewhat. We seem to have a little more needs now. As my colleague has said, this actually proves that the strategy of caution, for which we have paid a small price in the past, allows us to deal with it now without coming out as a country with suddenly greater financing needs. It doesn't stand out. That is a good thing, because we do not need to stand out in the negative. The fact that budgetary results suddenly deteriorated means a number of billions to be added. This did not get us into trouble because we were just in a period of very low refinancing. We can imagine everything for the future, but we cannot, of course, rule out the need to borrow a little more. In the past, we have gone up to EUR 48 billion for our long-term loans. We're at 30 billion now. This gives an idea of the current situation. It is a fact that the demand for government bonds is very high today, even at these incredibly low rates. In recent weeks, all countries have reported success in issuing bonds. We have even been able to spend 6 billion, which is a high amount for Belgium. But other countries sometimes issue even more bonds. Everyone comes up with record-order books. I believe that we must bear in mind that the needs in Europe, or in the euro area, have actually remained fairly limited. The funding programmes of many countries have not grown. Of course, it can be different from one country to another. But in a way it can be said that there may not even be enough public debt to meet the demand of all those investors who need and want bonds. Hence the interest rate remains very low. Fortunately, we are in a comfortable situation there. There's a lot of demand. We have made sure that our strategy was safe and that we did not stand out in the negative. Indeed, there is currently EUR 28 billion in OLOs, of which EUR 6 billion have been spent. We can make a new loan in the next few weeks. We can now carry out the tenders the dates of which are fixed. The amounts are all feasible. At what rate, no one knows with certainty, but forward guidance's ECB policy has actually given us an almost blank cheque saying: you can count on the interest rate to remain low. I believe that we can count on this to remain so for a few months to come. Interest is one component. The interest rate is indeed very low. Does that mean that any country can borrow at any time at a very low interest rate? There, of course, is a country's individual factor. Then there is the question: what is going on in Belgium, what is Belgium doing, what about the formation of government, what about the budget and so on? Well, that's part of the game. One can have a situation with very low German interest rates, yet high interest rates in Italy, or in other countries. It happens. We hope for the best. Right now, it's looking good. Of course, the new calculations for this year show a lower interest rate than we initially thought. Right now, we're good. We can work with that. The amount we need to refinance is ultimately limited. Even scenarios with a shock in the interest rates can't cost us that much extra money. That's limited. There were also questions about the green OLO.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u15	The green OLO is initially an OLO, a bond like another. This is very important because it provides liquidity for investors in green bonds. With other instruments, they have them less easily. The amounts that we can spend on it on an annual basis depend on the amounts of green expenditure that we can identify in the budget and which we can show that the nominal amount has also actually gone towards financing a number of green expenditure. So that is an additional work that we have been doing at the agency for two years. We are reporting on this green expenditure. In the case of the Belgian Federal State, it is mainly about infrastructure investments in the railways, SNCB and Infrabel. In addition, there are a number of other issues, such as the federal state's contribution to the cost of wind farms. Those things can be financed by it. On the basis of existing expenditure, at the beginning of each year we estimate the amount that we will be able to allocate in that year. This year we have made that estimate again. It amounts to between 2 and 2.5 billion. This corresponds to estimates that we have received in the meantime from Infrabel, the SNCB and the FPS Finance Study Service. The study department can make a number of assessments of tax revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u16	The next question was about the Silver Fund and its influence on debt. At some point, there has indeed been a change at the level of the composition of the debt, because the debt we had against the Silver Fund was taken over, so that we became debtors of ourselves, which ultimately led to a debt comparison and the removal of that debt. That debt never ended up in debt. Investors were wondering how to interpret that situation. Internal claims also existed in Denmark and New Zealand. They have never made much impression on them, not in a positive and not in a negative sense. Its disappearance makes it easier for us to comment on the figures for everyone. We have therefore simply taken it, but there are no economic consequences for us or for what we think. That situation is over for us. There was also the more general question what we can do to bring the debt down. Our contribution is to keep interest costs low. That is something that counts, but of course it is not up to us to suggest things for the budget. I'm gonna have to fit in for that. The more relevant question is what happens when interest rates rise and what weapons we have. At the moment there is little, we do not have real derivatives operations for that. Our response was structural, namely to extend the duration of the refinancing. This is because it will stabilise interest costs. If you look at the past, at the large categories of government revenue, primary government expenditure and interest charges, then interest charges are actually the most stable component of the budget. Primary expenditure fluctuates more than interest charges, and this is all the more true of income. If the intention is to keep the budget as predictable as possible, then at the level of the global interest burden with this refinancing calendar we have a fairly high stability. I don't know if we should push it any further. If interest rates rise at some point, we will naturally have to accept that. We can temporarily shorten the duration to partially absorb the interest rate increase, but we must realise that we are in a very positive environment, with an interest rate of 0.1 % at 10 years while GDP is rising by 3% nominally. So that's a very strong negative interest rate. Maybe that'll last, but it's a huge improvement. In a way, we will have to accept an increase, but I do not think it will be priceless.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u17	Are you aware of a problem with the treasury management of social secretariats? As you know, social secretariats receive amounts from their clients, i.e. businesses, to pay social contributions and professional discounts. Social secretariats are responsible for transferring these amounts to public funds or social security funds. The fact is that they keep, at times, huge sums, because they have a certain time to return them to the public funds. In the meantime, of course, they place that money, which brings them interest. Finally, there is a loss of profits for public funds. Indeed, if you received them earlier, you could make good use of these sums through cash management, and why not, gain some profit from it. This problem has already been pointed out to Mrs De Block, particularly with regard to social security contributions. Is this problem unknown or known to you? If it's unknown to you, would you be willing to analyze it? This, I believe, is a possibility for the cash management you have mentioned, to generate new revenue or, in any case, to ensure that there is no undue enrichment in the head of these intermediaries, the social secretariats. I would remind you, however, that social security contributions and professional prepayment are in tens of billions. These are colossal sums. Is there not a job to do, which would allow you to recover more quickly a cash that is due to the state? This is the case, whether it be social security or cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u18	I would like to allow our speakers to conclude. If everyone bounces, they'll never have the chance to finish. If necessary, we'll do a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u19	I just said the interest rate could rise at some point. We must accept that, but we have placed ourselves as safely as possible. I turn to the following question, which is directly related: where do the directives on duration and refinancing risks come from? That is the crucial choice that needs to be made in advance about the future structure. What are the possibilities there? We have developed our own macroeconomic model, which outlines many future scenarios in terms of interest charges and risks depending on different strategies. The large conclusion was that the extension of the duration in current circumstances had a very small cost and many advantages. The moment has been there in recent years and there is indeed a great demand for the market. Due to the low interest rates, we are faced with investors who move over and use more and more time to get interest rates. So we had the best of all worlds: low interest rates that create an additional demand for long-term government bonds. So what we wanted to do was also very simple to do. Of course, it won't always be as good as the last 10 years. Everything pointed in the direction of raising the risks and limits. The question can be asked as to whether we should go further. I have shown a graph showing that we are very good compared to other countries, but that does not mean that we should stop. The fact is that at some point we will also create problems if we push it too far. That has to do with liquidity. Mr Post has already said that liquidity is very important. Take the example of the United Kingdom, which has an average duration of 14 years. So there are those who have an even longer duration than Belgium. If we wanted to do this in Belgium, we would have individual OLO bonds with a circulation of several billion euros, which is now more like 12 to 15 billion euros. That's a little off the market. If there is not enough volume in such a loan, there will no longer be enough attraction for investors à la PIMCO or BlackRock, who want to buy large packages of that loan without changing the price. So there's a natural limit somewhere. This cannot be taken into account, because there is even more interest in risk reduction, and if liquidity decreases, so is the case. However, that will also have a price and that price can be very high. The difference in price between a liquid instrument and an illiquid instrument on the market is easily between 30 and 40 basis points. So that is a serious extra interest that will be paid. We must also make that assessment. That makes us think that we have gone far enough. We are no longer criticized by rating agencies for the debt structure. On the contrary, they are beginning to mention them as positive. Although there were overall negative prospects in Scope, there was a specific reference to debt management as a strong point. It's also the first time I've seen this point coming up, so it might help to avoid worse for the time being. It's definitely okay. We should not go beyond that. We have a prospect of an interest-rate budget which will fall sharply in the coming years, while at the same time being fairly resilient to interest-rate increases that can be made for all kinds of reasons. We had to make the choice as to where we would go and when we would stop. Now we're pretty far. Today we refuse the questions of investors for issue at 70 or 100 years, which are there. You should know that today is our policy not to go any further, because it will mean additional costs. There will always be 15 or 20 basis points for the 100-year loans compared to the 50-year loans. For the time being, we have set the limit to 50 years. That's the longest OLO we've got. We do not go beyond that, because we are already far enough away. A few years ago, we would have answered those questions. In a way, we evaluated and considered that what we had is already good and feasible, because it allows us to deal with a number of shocks, such as the current budgetary shock or another shock. We will not go any further because otherwise we will pay the price in a different way. That is the overall balance we have made on the basis of all the long-term simulations we have made in terms of interest costs and volatility for the future. You also asked about Scope. There are some 50 credit rating agencies in the world that give a rating to Belgium and other countries. That market is pretty diverse. We don't know most of the agencies, and you don't know them. No one really knows them. We are particularly interested in the agencies which know the investors because we need to know their opinion. It concerns the big three plus possibly also DBRS, which will publish our rating next Friday. DBRS gave us a double A-high rating. We are therefore standing at AA+, with stable prospects for the time being. It is also for us to wait and see what will be on the market Friday night. DBRS is more known than Scope. We know that, too. Should DBRS change the outlook to negative, there would be more response and there would be more questions. However, this does not necessarily have to be the case. I would just like to point out that there are other agencies, which we know and who also visit us, just as they visit Cabinets and the National Bank of Belgium. It concerns the larger offices, namely the large four or the large three offices. We know them better. However, Scope was indeed in the news because it had taken a decision towards negative prospects. It is therefore not yet a new rating, but a negative outlook. Otherwise, we didn't know that agency either. Your last question was about the consolidation of social security. Where did that come from? We have simply taken the figures that can be found in the statistics of the National Bank of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u20	Mr President, Mr Deboutte, is that to TNR?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u21	That's definitely TNR. We are, of course, aware of the fact that social security has long ceased to be financed by contributions and that it is necessary to restore balance. Otherwise, there would be a much greater debt in this area. This is probably not ideal again, because we are concentrating debt in one agency. That is probably the cheapest solution because most of our products are liquid and therefore much cheaper than the other products. These are the figures we have taken to demonstrate the relative importance of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u22	I suppose you're pretty quick to make the negative contribution to consolidation...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u24	That's a lot of questions. Mr. Laaouej, you ask who holds the debt. As far as creditors are concerned, there is already a first analysis here. We can take it back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u25	Yes, indeed on OLO. It's finally pretty close to what we see in general. Detention takes place mainly outside Belgium but mainly in the euro area. This is really where Belgian bonds are found in general. Which clients do they actually hold the debt? Most of them are professional fund managers who, in turn, manage money for others, for pension funds or for insurers. It is therefore very often the money of pension funds, insurances, mutual funds of individuals, which is managed by professionals. So this is the very large group that holds the debt. These are the professional asset managers. Besides this, there are, of course, banks which remain important and which this year have taken up a slightly larger part of the debt. In addition, some on-line insurers or pension funds, which have their own operations and are of the size necessary to be active in this field, also take up a large part. And then, there is the fast money, hedge funds which still represent a significant part of the volumes processed in the market but which, in terms of holding the bonds, represent a much smaller part. It's really about money that spins very quickly, which allows you to have some liquidity in the market. In this sense, their role can be favourable. These are often the drivers of our bond auctions, since they play on relative price differences, on very small differences in large volumes, which makes it possible to issue debt in even large auctions. Often, this happens through these hedge funds. But then they don't hold the debt. Often, it returns quite quickly to the market. In terms of countries, what was very striking last year was Asia which bought a very, very large part of Belgian debt, both in the long term and in the short term. The geographical areas were a little different. For the long term, it was mainly Japan. Japanese banks and Japanese fund managers bought a lot of OLO. In the short term, we have seen Western Asia instead. Turkey in particular has been very active in the purchase of our Treasury certificates. These are recent elements that we have seen through investments in our debt. In the end, it is really, in large part, a euro area product and, to a lesser extent, an Asian one. How is this going very practically for negative rates? This is done by issuing debt, so people pay us more for it than they will receive. This may be the case for treasury certificates, which are only one payment on maturity. In the past, 99 in cash was used to issue a debt of 100. Today, if you issue a debt of 100, you get 101 in cash. Anyway, people pay us to buy the debt. It's the same thing in the long run. If, today, you buy a debt, even with annual coupons of 4%, you will pay more than the sum of all these future payments you will collect. So, you're making a negative return on this investment from day one. That's how it's practically happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u26	Madam President, we have not yet finished answering Mr Laaouej's first questions. With respect to the SWAP coverage operations we have carried out in the past with varying success for various reasons, we do not have one in progress. The only thing we could cover would be the issue of currencies with short- or long-term instruments. In this case, we would cover ourselves entirely from the first day. No exchange risk arises. There we agree: this has not changed. However, in terms of rate coverage, we have opted for structural work, which consists of extending the duration of the debt, rather than for hedging operations, which are still valid at some point in time. Then, when the coverage is complete, there is a risk. As it has been very difficult to determine a good timing in financial markets, we have chosen a structural solution. Now the instruments exist. And we can use them, knowing that it can be very difficult to use them at the right time and rightly. For the moment, SWAP's book is very limited, which facilitates the management of credit risks and collateral. On this side, it's pretty quiet. We do not have an immediate plan, because the basic risk is, fortunately, very limited. You also asked the question of the social secretariats. I was personally aware that a large sum of money was permanently held, working capital. Could we be interested in that? I don't think a big sum of money to put in the short term is a nice gift. Anyway, for now. In time, it was a fairly important source of income. The same was true for insurance brokers. I knew insurance brokers had a large revenue line, which was the investment of premiums before they were paid to the insurer. It's kind of the same thing. Profit is, for the moment, different. Are we interested? I think we need to know first whether the counterpart for this money is the public sector or the private sector. When it's private, it's interesting because all the sources of funding that we have next to the available instruments are interesting. But the rates we will offer for these counterparties are likely to disappoint them. As the current rates are - 0.60 % and even better in the short term, whereas if these same institutions are aimed at banks, the rate they can obtain will be close to zero. I don't know. This is the discussion we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u27	There's a misunderstanding. It is not a question of thinking that the social secretariats could offer you cash or an investment. No, that's not what this is about. Rather, it is to say that the state is deprived of cash since they keep the money and are likely to place it in short-term cash investment products – it is true that the current situation is not good, but in the past, interesting things could be done. The state – and you as the Federal Debt Agency – are deprived of cash. That is, there is a loss of profits for the State and a gain for them. That is to say, you receive money less quickly, which is, in principle, due to the State because it benefits from payment deadlines which are far too long. When you examine the profit and loss accounts of the social secretariats, not necessarily this year but rather over a period of ten years, you will find that there are considerable amounts of cash investment products, which should be a gain for the Belgian State. For this money must come back to the Belgian State, whether it be the occupational discount or social contributions. Except this is slow to happen in the state coffers. As a result, you yourself are deprived of cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u28	In relation to this, I would add that they must pay us on the date the amount is due. If they receive the money from their clients before, they are not obliged to pay it before the date due to our cash flow. In addition, the degree of predictability of our cash flow is very important to us. It is important for us to know when the returns will take place. If it goes home as it goes, it's harder for us to manage when it comes back gradually than if it comes back on schedule. There's a little of both. In the past, this has been a major source of income for social secretariats. Today, they are looking for 0% not to lose on investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u29	I'll be brief. The answer has already been given. The social secretariats were basically obliged to do so, and I think they will continue to do so in order to change their business model and not get their income from interests. In that sense, I think the remark is less relevant, but I do not know if it is for you to look at the entire flow of funding. Is that something we can ask you, with possible slopes for the future? It makes no sense for intermediaries to continue to hoard funds which are in fact for the State. Another question, which may go too far, is that we need to elaborate here or at another occasion on the risks involved in these low interest rates. Mr Laaouej is a strong supporter of l'impôt sur les grandes fortunes, but now someone with a wealth or a company gets a negative income tax. As you said, we are talking about 2% to 3% of inflation and 0,1% of inflation in ten years. There are inherent long-term risks. Perhaps not today, but on another occasion we need to go into this more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u30	Just for the social secretariats. There is a very specific regulation for this at the RSZ when it comes to the private sector. There's someone you're in touch with for debt management. There is an arrangement for this, which has been fully worked out in regulatory accounts. One can easily ask, because there is an effective gap. Some people actually use that and they're wrong. Now a little less, because it's less. In the same order. I don't know if you have the overview. You have spoken about the post account used for the Treasury. Do you have an overview, or is it available at the Treasury, of all the institutions of the government that are required to use that treasury account? Mostly to know who shouldn't use it. I don't know if I should be with you for that or with the Treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u31	It is not the agency that keeps track of this, it is indeed the colleagues of the Treasury. That service is called Consolidation. There has also been the 2013 Act, which indeed imposed an obligation on any entity in the sector S13 to place the funds with the State: either the available money at bpost or in the long term with other products. That will be followed up by our colleagues. There is also a system of exceptions that can be requested and granted by our colleagues in the Treasury on the basis of good arguments. So that's happening right now. We do know who that is, but it is not really up to us to control it; it is up to our colleagues. As far as the question of the social secretariat is concerned, we are certainly interested in looking at how these things are going, but the demand for an official analysis must be made through the Minister of Finance. The strategic committee can indeed ask us to investigate matters. We have to wait and see what exactly that question will be. That could be very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic108x.u32	Thank you for your detailed and precise explanations. A full account of this hearing will soon be available.
