ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u1	Hello, I recall the operation of the chronometer: the scheduled time for the question is five minutes, including the member's question and the answer, and two minutes for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u2	Minister, the FEB recently denounced the leave system in Belgium, which is considered too traditional. Mothers remain the main stakeholders in the management and performance of family tasks. This means that many women - half of them - take part-time work. On the other hand, only one in ten men reduce their working hours. The report of activities for the year 2018 of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men denounced the same situation: 2/3 of the users of parental leave, time credit or career interruption are women. This remains a way for them to reconcile their work and family life. The figures presented in the study on the gender dimension of parental leave, time credit and career interruption are consistent with those cited above. Thus, again, it emerges that although the holiday system respects the principle of equality in form, in reality the vast majority of holiday users are women. Historically, leave has all been created under the influence of traditional social representation of maternity. For the Institute, the leave system now needs to be assessed and reformed with a view to gender equality and parenting. Indeed, if women are to be more active in the labour market, it is essential to bring about a change in the organisation of the family sphere. There is a need to strengthen gender equality in the private sphere and to reverse the traditional roles of men and women. To this end, it is necessary to change the system of leave by taking more account of the concepts of gender equality and parenthood in order to develop, in the long term, a comprehensive system of parental leave. However, before this happens, it seems to us, for example, that extending paternity leave would already be a major step forward. In that regard, I have tabled a bill. Madam Minister, in addition to these two measures of parental leave and paternity, do you have any concrete avenues to restore the balance between men and women? Have you met with the Institute to discuss it? How do you intend to take concrete action to end these inequalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u3	Dear colleague, Directive 2019/1158 on the work-life balance of parents and caregivers has recently been adopted within the European Union. The purpose of the Directive is precisely to ensure the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the labour market and to enable parents and caregivers to better reconcile their work and family obligations. More specifically, the Directive includes measures such as paternity leave, parental leave, caregiver's leave, overriding leave and flexible working arrangements. The EU Member States have until 2 August 2022 to transpose the provisions of this Directive into their national legislation. We also want to stress that, in this international context, it was clear that in comparison with many other European states, Belgium has a generous system of leave arrangements. Thus, in addition to thematic leave such as parental leave, it was possible in Belgium to also take 51 months of motivated time credits. To this end, my department has in the meantime already undertaken a number of preparatory steps, including: carrying out an impact assessment of the directive, two meetings of the National Labour Council have also taken place on this subject. I would point out that the representatives of my office were present every time. Both the SPF Social Affairs and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men are involved in the transposition of the Directive. It is therefore obvious that we are in contact with them on this subject. In order to achieve a coherent system and as part of the transposition of this directive, we will have to hold a discussion on improving our system of leave for workers with family responsibilities. On the other hand, a reform of leave can only be envisaged in consultation with the social partners. I will also point out that my opportunities to take additional initiatives are limited at this time of day-to-day business. In addition, the funding of such leave is an integral part of the successful implementation of a balanced system. The recent introduction of parental leave up to one-tenth of working time could convince men, both financially and in practice, to take an average half-day break per week to take care of their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u4	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand that you have analysed the impact of the directive, that you intend to enter into consultation with the social partners and that funding is needed. However, it seems to me that the leave system must also be assessed and reformed with a view to gender equality in parenting. Women must be more active. A balance is, however, indispensable in the family sphere. This equality between men and women needs to be strengthened for a better reconciliation between work and private life, as we observe that this is steadily increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, I will try to summarize the two questions in one. I see that my speaking time will be adjusted. I'll do the most effective. The news of the beginning of the year has rebounded on this important subject. I'm doing a little retroact. By the end of 2017, the company Deliveroo announced that all its bicycle delivery companies were forced to adopt independent status by 31 January 2017, that they would now receive race pay rather than hourly pay and would be without employment contract, social protection, and insurance in the event of an incident, as reflected in the terms and conditions of employees. Several arrests and judgements have taken place, including at the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations. The Commission considered that "Deliveroo's proposed terms and conditions are incompatible with a qualification as a worker or as a self-employed person". Except that the notice was invalidated by the Labour Court in the summer of 2019. We are still waiting for the outcome of the Labour Auditorate's investigation. My first question, which dates from last fall, is about accidents. Indeed, according to a study conducted in London by University College, couriers and self-employed drivers were at a higher risk of road accidents. In England, for example, 42% of couriers and taxis in the platform economy have already had an accident with their vehicle. Do you have these figures for Belgium? My second question concerns the new element of the beginning of the year, which is very important to us. The Labour Auditorate issued the findings of its study, which we had been waiting for more than two years. They have seen hundreds of couriers and delivery agents involved in these new conditions of platform economy that we consider unfair and to which they are subject, given that they are considered independent. The Brussels Labour Auditorate decided to assign the Deliveroo meal delivery platform to the Labour Court in January 2020. This decision follows a two-year criminal investigation by the National Social Security Office (ONSS). After imagining an application for referral to the Correctional Court, the Labour Auditorate finally chose the civil route to assign Deliveroo. The trial will begin on 20 January before the Brussels Labour Court. At the origin of this case is the Alexander De Croo law on the collaborative economy, and the change of status. I would like to add that 115 Dutch- and French-speaking couriers have been interviewed. Deliveroo fully collaborated in the investigation. The Labour Auditorate has therefore filed an application before the Labour Court, raising a series of alleged violations such as non-payment of contributions to the ONSS or non-payment of remuneration to couriers. The Brussels Labour Court will therefore have the task of examining these offences and drawing the consequences. It will be a matter of judging whether these couriers deserve an employee status, as Ecolo-Groen thinks. Minister, my questions are related to this new element. How do you accept this decision from the Labour Auditorate? We've already interviewed many times. [[,]] Your predecessors, Messrs. Peeters and Beke, in this regard. Mr. Peeters had stated that he might consider amending the law, if necessary, to better protect these workers. Do you intend to join the couriers in the legal proceedings? If justice makes the labour auditorate right, do you envisage a reform of the status of workers in the platform economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u6	Madam President, dear colleague, my predecessor, Kris Peeters, had already pointed out to you in February 2019 in the House's Social Affairs Committee that, in accordance with the separation of powers and the secrecy of judicial information, the Minister of Employment cannot disclose information about an ongoing judicial investigation or intervene to speed up the conduct of such an investigation. However, I recently learned that the Brussels Labour Auditorate had closed its investigation and decided to refer the Deliveroo case to the Labour Court. The trial is scheduled to start on 20 January in Brussels. It is now up to the court to clarify the status of couriers and any violations of social legislation. In my view, the fact that the labour auditorate brought the case before the Labour Court is a good thing. My administration will study the matter further and advise me on any action that may need to be taken. But I have to wait for the Labour Court decision that I can't anticipate. As far as the figures for accidents at work are concerned, I must refer you to the Federal Occupational Hazards Agency (Fedris), which is under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. It should be noted, however, that insurance against accidents at work is compulsory only to the extent that couriers are considered to be workers. Until this happens, their accidents will not be recorded as accidents at work at Fedris. As I said, we must wait for the results before analysing the issue and taking the necessary action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Since these are not employees, accidents will obviously not be recorded at the Fedris level. I hear you consider it a good thing that the auditorate brought the case to justice. This is also the case with Ecolo-Groen. In addition, we support the requalification as a wage earner for a number of reasons that have already been mentioned here. In particular, it is necessary for everyone to have decent work in accordance with the working conditions of the employees. We will be extremely attentive to the pronouncement of justice in this case, which ends several years of struggle and difficulties for the workers of the platform economy, especially the delivery people. As soon as we know the court's decision, we will return to committee with this subject. I think it will really be necessary to take legislative action on the basis of this judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u8	Minister, "40 % of people living on the street are women" recently denounced some Belgian media. This figure is derived from studies by field associations, such as Job Dignity, a Brussels incubator for homeless women. The figures of the Institute for Gender Equality, IWEPS and Samusocial are more nuanced, but are not reassuring. The number of women living on the street is increasing every year, accounting for almost one third of the population in question. This growing phenomenon must be linked to the growing general precariousness that affects our country. Women are particularly sensitive to this situation, suffering from increasing impoverishment and from the various social measures taken in recent years. Living on the street is very complicated. In the case of a homeless woman, the dangers are multiplied. The growing number of women living on the street must be an issue for us. Solutions must be found and action taken. Minister, are there any plans already in place to reflect on this issue and to find solutions to it in a comprehensive and systemic way? What about the implementation and sustainability of the Housing First project? Moreover, how do you explain, for your part, the increasing number of women forced to live on the street? What concrete measures had been taken under the previous legislature to improve the plight of those women?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u9	Madam Minister, as my colleague from the PS says, it is appalling that the number of homeless is so high and that the number of young people and women among them is increasing. Given that complex problems are at the root of homelessness and homelessness, we will have to work at different policy areas and levels to address the problem. Every year winter shelters for homeless people are organized. Several cities have opened their doors to winter care in recent months, but recent articles show that they do not have sufficient beds to meet the demand of homeless people. So some people literally stay in the cold, and that is poignant. There are also more and more women, single mothers and families among them. Provision should therefore be made for appropriate reception facilities. Madam Secretary, what plans do you have with regard to sheltering the homeless? What budgets do you make available for that? Which cities do these budgets go to? What has been included in the planning, regardless of what the future government should do? I have already asked several of your predecessors questions and one of your predecessors once replied that she would ensure that crisis management was no longer needed and that she would strive for sustainable and stable solutions. However, it can be seen that every year there is more demand than supply in winter care. Is it possible to provide sufficient winter and emergency care? The aim must, of course, be to work on structural solutions so that emergency care remains an emergency solution that is used as little as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against homelessness and the absence of home is a problem that deserves my full attention. Also in day-to-day affairs, I intend, as the competent minister for the fight against poverty, to continue to support the measures undertaken to assist homeless people. During the past three federal governments, the federal government has included the fight against homelessness as one of its policy priorities in the framework of the Federal Plan against Poverty. Three types of measures should be highlighted: dealing with social emergencies, of which winter care in the Trierstraat is a good example, strengthening good governance, coordination and consultation between different authorities and supporting social innovation with the development of innovative projects, such as Housing First. A common approach and coordination of different methods and policies are necessary. Therefore, a cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness was concluded on 12 May 2014 between the federal state and the sub-regions. The cooperation agreement underlines the importance of a policy approach at different levels. This agreement has made some progress: a common definition of homelessness, housing-oriented actions, clarification of responsibilities and support for the implementation of innovative methodologies such as the Housing First project. The increase in the number of people living on the streets and/or without housing seems to be confirmed by several signals, including the activity reports of the relay socioux in Wallonia, the statistics of the Support Point Human and Society in Flanders and the count of La Strada for Brussels. The emergency shelter in the Trierstraat is currently catching 257 homeless people, 147 of whom are men and 110 women. With this the center is at its maximum capacity. Of the 257 residents there are 74 minors and 21 even younger than 3 years. I went to visit the King a second time last week. We noticed very strongly, compared to our first visit a few months ago, that there were a lot of young women with young children present. At the federal level, my predecessors have ensured that ambitious research is carried out through the programming of BELSPO. A monitoring of homelessness has been carried out. The recommendations of this MEHOBEL study conducted by a consortium of research centres will be valued by my administration, the Social Integration SPF. For the time being, there are no reliable and centralized global statistics on homelessness. At the federal level and in federated entities, there is a real interest in addressing it and making efforts to have a better view of this complex problem. For the winter period, the OCMWs of five major cities, namely Brussels, Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi, receive a grant of EUR 50,000 to support measures against homelessness and homelessness. For the second-line reception in Brussels, EUR 1.3 million will be made available each year, providing 250 additional places on the Trierstraat. The services are currently preparing a fourth federal plan to combat poverty. The fight against homelessness will be one of the priority themes. In many studies and opinions on poverty reduction, the right to housing is increasingly emphasized. Investing in appropriate housing and providing adequate services are therefore crucial points in the vision text for the federal poverty reduction plan. As part of my policy, I will continue to support Housing First. As the name suggests, this is an initiative to support the development of new assistance services for homeless people, including for social inclusion and housing. We have clearly learned from discussions with those involved that having a roof over the head is very important to take further steps. However, the conclusion of a rental contract is subject to conditions and a guarantee. Also paying rent is not easy. The sponsors of the project Housing First help in this area and that is progressing successfully. The project is active in 17 municipalities and 600 people could be helped. Very positive is that 90% of those tenants are still housed. Housing provides access to both the labour market and education. The issue of homeless women is a point I addressed during my visit to the Evere reception centre on Monday, December 2. This centre offers accommodation, accommodation and support for single men, single women and women with children. With the consortium of the Belgian Red Cross, CAW Brussels and Doctors of the World, we want to make greater use of stable solutions. The limited duration of winter care makes it difficult to achieve sustainable solutions. However, we really want to focus on this period and encourage us to stay in the centre for one month. They're getting a new structure there. We also see clearly that people are being led to many services, such as the CAW and the OCMW. We also provide educational support and homework guidance is provided. There are therefore very many aspects, for 24 hours, with a lot of external partners, such as the OCMW, Child and Family and Fedasil. What those people are doing is handsome. Structural consultation and dialogue at policy level with all actors active in reception are crucial. That is why it is important to bring all these different aid organisations under the same roof. It works, but I'm well aware that the road is still very long.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u11	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I am pleased to hear that, even in day-to-day affairs, you support the fight against poverty, including the fight against homelessness for women. And we must not forget men too. But it is the women who are still the most affected. As you said, we need to strengthen, multiply this Housing First device. It is an innovative and effective way of aiming at the social integration of these most vulnerable homeless people. This societal issue is a major issue. As you said, it's a cross-cutting phenomenon. Efforts to achieve a structural reduction in the number of persons concerned should also be significantly increased. Homeless women today are in precarious situations. Either they are part-time, or they live a separation and find themselves in a single parent situation that sometimes does not allow them to climb the slope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You admit that there is indeed an increase, but you say you are prepared to do something about it, even in current cases. I also welcome your continuing with the Fourth Federal Plan on Combating Poverty. In fact, we had hoped for this before, but it is still not there. I have asked your predecessor very frequently about this, Mrs Demir, but I am glad to see that further work is being carried out. I really hope that there will be a new government as soon as possible, so that the plan finally arrives. In this we can work effectively on structural solutions, because, as I have already said, there is unfortunately an increase in the number of homeless people. Unfortunately, we have to respond to this today with emergency care, but the best solution is a structural one. I agree with you that, for example, the Housing First project is a wonderful project. We have that in Antwerp, too. With this project one first takes care of a roof above the head of the people, gives them guidance and ensures that they are no longer sick. Afterwards, they can start the real problems, because homeless people and homeless people often just don't have the opportunity to work on them. I hope that for those who have no roof over their heads and yet depend on emergency care, that is the subject of the Communities, sufficient day care is provided throughout the year, so that those people can be accompanied there, together with organizations such as the General Welfare Centre, which certainly have an important role to play in this. Poverty is a theme that we really must not let go of, because every human being in poverty is one too many. I think we all agree on that. We must work together at all levels to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u13	I discover that a small sound is emitted when the speaking time is exceeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u14	Madam President, Minister, on December 20, a 24-hour strike was launched in the four breweries and the AB InBev depots. The movement brought together both the workers and employees and the executives of the company. Workers, supported by their unions, complained about their working conditions. Safety at work and income guarantees were the first item on the agenda of the collective labour agreement meeting. The second point that workers would have wanted to see improved was the payment of wages, which faced many difficulties due to the outsourcing of the company responsible for administering the salaries. The latter is currently located in India and makes many mistakes, resulting in consequences for the calculation of the pension of the workers concerned. It is common for several days of actual work not to be properly registered by the Social Secretariat in Belgium. As a result, LEONSS does not receive the right data. I had tabled this question in November 2019. On 6 December, an agreement in principle on job security was reached during the negotiations. However, other points still needed to be discussed: the increase in purchasing power requested by trade unions; the reduction of the workload; and the resolution of administrative problems affecting the payment of wages. Minister, do you know more about the current situation? Have you been able to get in touch with management and the workers of AB InBev? How does management explain these rapid and frequent changes in management? Now, what can you tell us about the agreements that have been reached? Finally, will errors in the calculation of pensions be corrected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, in early November, AB InBev undertook business negotiations to implement the sectoral agreements concluded last June in the Joint Committee of the Food Industry and Food Workers. In this context, an application for conciliation was made on 8 November by the Horval trade union following the filing of a strike notice. This conciliation took place on 18 November and dealt with the modalities of the negotiations so that they took place separately between workers and employees. It concluded with a record of non-compliance. Nevertheless, the parties met the following day to continue the discussions. A strike action was then launched on 20 November. As you said, on 6 December, an agreement in principle was reached within the company on job security and the guarantee of income in the event of dismissal for economic reasons. The other aspects – in particular the use of the wage margin, as provided for in the interprofessional agreement, the improvement of the administration of wages and the filing of correct ONSS declarations – are the subject of further consultation. The meetings of 19 December and 14 January have not yet reached an agreement. No social conciliator was involved. A new meeting is scheduled for 22 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that a meeting is scheduled for 22 January because there is still no agreement on the issue of wages. However, I would ask you to remain attentive to this kind of relocation of accounting services to India. This is an increasingly common practice in Belgium, but we see that it is not very effective. In addition, externalizing accounting problems places workers in a difficult situation. I will come back to you after this consultation scheduled for 22 January in order to know the solution that has been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u17	Madam President, Minister Tata Steel Europe recently announced a heavy restructuring plan with 3,000 jobs at risk. Belgium does not escape the consequences of this redevelopment since Tata Steel has in particular a plant in Flemalle where I am the first echevine and a packaging site in the Antwerp region. You will therefore understand my concern about this event. Indeed, just in Flemalle the fate of 140 workers is uncertain. The situation seems all the more worrying to me as we still do not have any information on the impact of the restructuring on sites outside the Netherlands. Minister, do you have more information about the consequences of this restructuring plan on Belgian territory? Is a Renault procedure to be feared? Is consultation with workers' representatives planned? Is a transfer of the Belgian activities of the group envisaged? Have potential buyers come forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, contacts have been made with the sectoral social partners which confirm that at a European works council held on 27 November 2019, Tata Steel Europe announced a restructuring at group level covering 3,000 jobs. The breakdown would be as follows: 700 posts in the Netherlands, 1,000 in Great Britain and 350 for the rest of Europe. This restructuring follows the failure of the merger with German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp. At this European works council, the workers' representatives rejected the plan since a second meeting in mid-December did not lead to a solution. The European works council is planning a trip to Bombay (Mumbai) to discuss with the management of Tata Steel Limited. As you said, Tata Steel has two sites in Belgium: one in Flémalle, Segal, a galvanizing line that employs 140 workers, and the other in Duffel, which employs 42 workers in packaging tasks. At this stage, no information was provided on the possible impact of this restructuring in Belgium. As a result, no announcement of collective redundancies was made to the Employment CPS. So I don't have any news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u19	Minister, I'm always worried because you say it yourself, you don't have any news. I understand that a trip will be organized to meet management abroad. Nevertheless, these workers remain uncertain. It is not easy to live with a doubt that hovers on your head about your job. However, this is what the 140 workers in Flemalle are experiencing. And this concern concerns both workers and the community. Beyond that, I don't know if you'll have any contacts yourself. Can we hope to have a return as a result of this trip to India? I'll come back to you with other questions. You didn't have any contact with the union partners either?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u20	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u22	Madam Secretary, my question concerns e-athletes. E-sport or game in competition is in full swing. All kinds of tournaments are organized at home and abroad, which are also broadcast live on TV. One can even gamble on it. A number of regular sports clubs also employ e-athletes. Then we automatically come to the question of whether those e-athletes, who also have to train and acquire certain skills, can be seen as regular athletes. In particular, the question arises as to whether the law on paid sportsmen and women of 1978 can apply. This is relevant because that law confers a number of advantages, both fiscally and in terms of RSZ. In fact, reduced rates apply only to a flat-rate amount. Madam Secretary, do you think that e-athletes can be treated as ordinary sportsmen? Can the 1978 Act apply to them? How are e-sports workers currently dealt with in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u23	The Law of 24 February 1978 on the employment contract for paid sportsmen and women applies to persons who undertake to prepare for, or participate in, a sports competition or an exhibition under the authority of another person for a wage exceeding a certain amount. The amount of this wage limit shall be fixed annually by the King after consulting the National Joint Committee for Sport. Three criteria must be met to ensure that the contract of employment of a sportsperson is covered by the specific provisions of the Law of 24 February 1978. Firstly, it is about preparing for and/or participating in sports competitions or events. Secondly, this must be done under the authority of another person. Thirdly, the remuneration paid to the sportsman must exceed a certain amount. As far as e-sport is concerned, competition-based gaming, it will therefore be necessary to examine whether persons employed by a sports club in this context fulfil the above-mentioned conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is clear that the conditions laid down in the 1978 Law must be assessed in the light of the specific situation. In practice, this will have to be done soon, because more and more sports clubs are hiring e-sportsmen. It also goes further than the RSZ, because there are also tax advantages attached to it. We have asked the Minister of Finance how this is viewed fiscally. There is even an international component because there are e-athletes who perform services abroad and foreigners who come to Belgium to do so. With your answer, it is clear that the criteria must be applied, but it will have to be demonstrated in practice to what extent this will actually lead to an effective equivalence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u25	Madam Minister, I have a rather informative question, and I would like to draw a number of conclusions on the basis of your reply, because it is important for the workers involved, mostly workers. You know the general principle as well as I do, or perhaps even better: employees are entitled to a maximum of 10 days of family leave or leave for compelling reasons in accordance with the law of 3 July 1978. Mandatory reasons include unforeseen circumstances requiring the urgent and necessary intervention of the employee, e.g. a sudden illness, accident or hospitalisation of a partner or a more frequently occurring child, serious material damage to the employee's assets by, for example, a natural disaster or a fire, or a personal appearance before the court, if requested. Those days of family leave or leave for compelling reasons are often unpaid, although agreements have been made in some companies and a number of days are still paid. If the days are not paid, they shall be deducted from the number of days of annual leave on the basis of the rule of proportionality between the number of days worked and the number of days of leave. If employees have a family member with long-term or chronic illness, the problem repeats itself annually: they have to take leave for compelling reasons and therefore have less paid holidays. In view of the reasons why people are taking leave for compelling reasons, we do not think that this is fair. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Since it needs to be repertoireed, are you undoubtedly aware of how many days' leave are taken for compelling reasons unremunerated? What are the main reasons for taking that leave? How many holiday days were lost in 2019 and 2018? Finally, what do you intend to do with those numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u26	Mr Bertels, I am afraid I shall have to disappoint you a little about the available data. On the basis of Article 13a of the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, workers have the right to be absent from work for compelling reasons. That's supposed to be family leave. A compelling reason shall be any unforeseen event independent of the work which requires the urgent and necessary intervention of the worker in so far as the performance of the contract of employment makes this impossible. Cao No. 45 lists those compelling reasons, as you have done: it concerns illness, accident or hospitalization of a person living with the employee. In the absence there is no right to pay, unless otherwise agreed. For private sector workers, leave is regulated by collective agreement No. 45. More favourable arrangements may be agreed at sectoral or enterprise level. Days of leave on imperative grounds shall be treated as working days for the benefits determined by collective agreement and awarded on the basis of the company's seniority. The same applies to most sectors of social security, except for annual leave. My administration has informed the RSZ to see how many days of unpaid leave are taken annually for compelling reasons. In 2018 it is 681.858 days, which is quite a suit. For 2019 we do not have the complete information at our disposal. There is nothing known about the reasons why workers take this leave. The leave for compelling reasons is registered under the number code 24 in the RSZ system, without any additional information. According to the RSZ, there are no statistics on the number of holidays lost due to the inclusion of unpaid leave for compelling reasons. I've discussed whether there would be any possibility of refining the encryption. This could provide us with more information in this area. The RSZ is somewhat reluctant to do so because it cannot be controlled. If the reasons are noted, this can give us a certain indication. In fact, today, with the exception of the number of days taken, we know nothing about the justification, why those days were recorded and how many are lost in this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u27	Madam Minister, the first part of your reply was a repetition of the context. It is true that there are more favourable arrangements in a number of sectors, except for annual holidays. For me, this is a potentially wider debate than just about social security. All sectors are treated in the same way, except for annual holidays. The main victims of this are the 'weakest' sectors and the 'weakest' workers, who work in, for example, the cleaning aid sector. If, due to circumstances, they are forced to take leave for compelling reasons for one of the current reasons, they are double punished by having less paid annual holidays, which means that they have to take even more compulsory leave, in order to make it extremely extreme. Madam Minister, apart from the 681,000 days to which you refer, we must find a solution for the sake of fairness for those categories. I know the RSZ inside and outside about the insertion of registration data. This can also be solved differently: not by changing the code, but by having subcodes filled out by social secretariats or employers. That is not obvious, but there is a possibility. A lot of subcodes are used in the declarations to the RSZ. If the RSZ doesn't want to do that, it can also be done via the holiday greenhouses. I think we should do something about that. The weakest workers are overly affected by this. That's not fair. We will try to establish a legal framework for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u28	Madam President, everyone is talking about a good balance between work and family. This is also important for employees. For example, recent data from SD Worx show that 59 percent of the 19,000 affiliated employees who could opt for the Flex Income Plan actually exchanged part of their pay for additional holidays. These are clearly people who are looking for extra holidays, even though we already offer many opportunities with all kinds of leave schemes to better reconcile work and family life. Often it is about a few days, for example to go somewhere with a child or a sick parent or even to include, in the words of entrepreneur Wouter Torfs, a "foertdag." Due to the law on manoeuvrable and workable work introduced by Minister Peeters in 2017, employees can also give a few holidays to a colleague who takes care of a sick or disabled child. It seems that this possibility does not apply: no company offers it; no sector has so far concluded a collective agreement that makes it possible. Madam Secretary, apparently there is a need to buy off such days. Is it more common in certain sectors than in others? Can you give an overview by sector since the possibility was introduced? The system to buy holiday days in exchange for pay is already well established. Are there any thresholds that prevent people from trading in wages for an extra holiday? If so, which one? Giving away the other, more recently introduced form of holiday days is not a success. Why is that? As far as I know, no company offers the possibility, also because there are no collective agreements around it. Isn't that right or aren't there companies already offering it? If so, which one? What possible thresholds are hindering the introduction of this measure at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u29	Mrs Lanjri, you are addressing the existing need for additional holidays for employees. To this you link a number of questions about buying extra-legal holiday days, and you refer to companies where employees can trade in part or in full their end-of-year premium for a range of alternative benefits, including extra-legal leave days, as part of the so-called cafeteria plans. In this context, it should be noted that there is no specific legislation on the working method in question. The so-called cafeteria plans to which you refer are indeed instruments developed at sectoral and/or enterprise level according to their specific needs and needs. My administration therefore does not have the information you requested, such as a sectoral overview. In addition, you refer to the donation of conventional leave, a measure made possible by the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work. This measure allows the worker who has conventional leave days which he can take freely to give up in favour of another employee in the undertaking who takes care of a child under the age of 21 who is affected by a serious illness or disability, or who is the victim of a serious accident. In order to be able to apply the measure effectively, it needs to be activated at sectoral level. In concrete terms, the sector has six months in which to conclude a collective agreement, from the start of the call for activation by an organisation on the Joint Committee. If no sectoral collective agreement is concluded within the abovementioned period, the grant of conventional leave days can also be made possible at company level by means of a collective agreement or, where there is no trade union delegation, by means of the labour regulations. However, according to the information available to my department, no sectoral referrals have been made to date. With regard to your question for reasons, we find that neither employers nor employees have a provisional demand for such a measure. Furthermore, the introduction of the measure requires more specifically that conventional leave periods are granted effectively within the sector or enterprise. The latter is not the case today in all sectors or companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We introduced the idea of giving holidays in the previous legislature on a proposal from the MR. In France, too, this is a success, and it seems to be a success. Perhaps it would be good to check with the social partners whether there are any thresholds here or whether the needs in Flanders are completely different from those in France. That's a suggestion I'd like to make. As far as cafeteria plans are concerned, there is a lot to be said. At the moment we have little vision of it. I have already asked your fellow Minister De Block, in the context of the funding of social security, to carry out further research into it. Perhaps that is also where it is appropriate to examine how these extra-legal benefits are granted, in what form and what it costs or does not cost social security. Maybe that way we can get a better view of it. In any case, I note that those to whom it offers, for example the employees connected via SD Worx, use 59 % of those extra days. That can be for three to five days and sometimes even more. Apparently, there really is a need for it. In itself, this is a good proposal. It would be good if other sectors and other companies could take over. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u31	Madam Minister, a few months ago the RVA apparently had problems with electronic data transmission, especially in the pension sector. A number of files, especially of unemployed people with the status of part-time while retaining rights, were not passed on to the Federal Public Service Pensions. That information is, of course, crucial to determining pension rights. Suppose it is you who retires at that time and therefore misses a number of pension rights, because the possible retirement date cannot be set correctly. A quick correction is needed. This is also in line with what the federal Ombudsman says. I will not repeat it all, but he says that computer problems should not affect the rights of social security. Is it true that there have been technical problems at the RVA? Do they only affect the pension records of unemployed people with the status of part-time workers while retaining rights or do they have other consequences, both for pensions and for other branches of social security? Has that problem been solved in the meantime? My question was put a while ago. When can the errors resulting from this be corrected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u32	Mrs. Vanrobaeys, I can be brief. Indeed, the electronic attestation specifically developed for the rights of part-time employees in the pension sector was not sent in many cases, not in all cases, in the planned month of August 2019. This problem was not identified until October 2019. In response to your second question, I can tell you that the problem was finally solved in November 2019, by sending the improved electronic data flow to the pension file. So everything was corrected in November 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u33	Madam Minister, that is very good news for those involved. I therefore hope that these corrections will also apply to those who were entitled to a pension in the meantime and sometimes had the wrong information on the date of retirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u34	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns income replacement and integration. I am asking this question as a result of a statement by yourself, and that is why I would like to begin with an introductory situation. Poverty in people with disabilities is half higher than in people with no disability. That finding was rightly raised once again by a study by Professor Koen Hermans of the KU Leuven. The study also shows that Belgium is doing worse than many other European countries, for example the Netherlands and France. Moreover, there is, nevertheless strikingly, a rising trend. We all know that our welfare benefits, which are covered by the IVT and IT, are inadequate and are still below the European poverty line. The ambition to remedy this has been widely endorsed, but we have not yet achieved it. Professor Hermans and other actors in poverty policy provide tools. For this oral question, I would like to focus on two tools. There is a need for more participation and workable work. Employment rates for people with disabilities can only be achieved if workable work is possible. The step towards part-time or non-part-time work is now a piece of work for lack of clarity about the impact of income on the benefit and uncertainty about the feasibility of the job resumption, the success of which cannot, of course, be guaranteed. A resumption of work does have an impact on the benefits. At present, there is very often an inactivity trap, which means that work does not generate, as it were, any additional income. Moreover, a very large threshold is the risk of temporary total loss in the event of employment failure due to the complexity and long duration of the reopening of the right to compensation. We have already raised this issue in the past. Years ago, we once made the exercise of the price of love. In the recent past, my colleague, Mr Kitir, has repeated that exercise for the price of labour. Measures must be taken, because everyone knows the problem, but the measures to be taken have not yet been implemented. I was pleased to hear that your response to this study was the same as ours, which we had already put forward a year ago, namely that people with disabilities or disabilities should be entitled to disability benefits within the classical social security system. This is possible through the existing rules on, for example, part-time work for those who receive disability benefits, for example, for those who relapse after the work resumes. A whole arsenal of rules, including the well-known Article 100, may apply. After reading your pleasing message, I would like to know whether you have already instructed your administration to prepare and work out that piste. This can be done mostly at KB. We will have to take an initiative on the points for which this is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u35	In the context of the theme book Poverty and Handicap presented on 3 December, several slopes were put forward which could be further explored. It is important to find solutions for the inactivity traps observed in the income replacement system and the integration system. During the morning study linked to the book it also emerged that people with disabilities would like to work and that the system does not motivate and even slow them down. In my response, I supported the slopes to improve the cumulative possibilities. That was also the case for the ZIV benefits. In doing so, I did not comment on the integration of income replacement benefits into the ZIV benefits. That was not mentioned during the study day either. I am aware that some are advocating this integration, but that needs to be further investigated. The ZIV benefit is, after all, a social security benefit which has a very different origin, effect and definition from the income replacement allowance, which is a social security benefit. There are certain obvious questions. What calculation basis should there be for someone who didn't work before, which now gives entitlement to an IVT but not to a ZIV benefit? Is it intended to take a capital test for the new integrated benefit? This could mean that people who receive benefits today will not receive any more in the future and vice versa. How will the assessment and payment be made? It is not just these practical questions, but also the opportunity and the question of whether this is really in the interests of those concerned to be considered before consideration can be given to them. I'll come back to what came up during that day of study. One of the important findings in the theme book is that receiving an IVT is often an end point for people. It is very important to encourage the participation of people with disabilities in the labour market. A number of slopes can be explored for this purpose. Firstly, it is possible to introduce the rules that already exist today for the ZIV. This would allow an IVT beneficiary to accumulate the income associated with 20% of working time with his benefit in any case. Secondly, the current ceilings on labour income can be increased, thus reducing the price of labour. Thirdly, there is the possibility of reducing labour costs for the employer for hiring a person with an IVT. The hiring of people receiving an IVT could result in a reduction in the employer's contribution or in wage subsidies, as has happened in the living wage system under Article 60, § 7. Depending on the chosen option, the allocation of powers differs. Fourthly, the disabled person's evaluation process often looks at what the person cannot do. It would therefore be possible to examine what could be reformed by the physician in the disability assessment system. Fifthly, a back-to-work system for people with disabilities can also be explored. The evaluation of the disability should then examine the possibility of possible reintegration. Finally, there is also the option to use current income in the income test within the IVT system. At present the income of the year is used minus two. The path to update the income and, where possible, to adapt it immediately to reality should also be examined, in order to give people with disabilities more certainty and predictability about their final income or the level of benefit. Each slope has its specific timeline: some will require more time and effort. It is up to the new government to make choices in this regard. I am in favour of immunising the slope of 20% of working time for the calculation of the IVT, so that more work leads to more income.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u36	The general slope of integrating the IVT-IT into the ZIV regulation, which would mean that people would no longer be able to meet the reference period, is not the intention here, because then there is no benefit in the beginning. You gave examples of copying an existing system. The ZIV exists in the IVT-IT system. Then one can still choose between IVT and IT. That's a run we have to go to. Otherwise, we're gonna keep spinning around and not much happens. You are competent for the IVT-IT scheme. You can do some business. You can change the ceiling. You can change the 20 % scheme. Reducing wage subsidies or labour costs is already a shared competence. You can't do that alone. You can also do the evaluation process of the doctors of DG Persons with Disabilities. I would suggest that you ask your administration to prepare it, so that this can happen quickly if we have a full government. Otherwise, it's gonna take a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u37	We are preparing this, but this has such a budgetary impact that this is for the next government. We are looking at everything to prepare all the slopes so that the new government can work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u38	Any advice from the National Supreme Court yet? Or aren't you ready yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u39	Let me remind you that the allotted time is five minutes for the question and the answer and two minutes for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u40	Madam Minister, the Act of 26 December 2013 on the establishment of a unitary statute between workers and servants on notice periods and on the day of care and accompanying measures provides that an organisation may lay down in the employment regulations that the worker who is unfit for work due to illness or accident must remain at the disposal of the supervisory doctor for a maximum of four consecutive hours between 7 o'clock in the morning and 20 o'clock in the evening at his place of residence or a notified other place of residence. Unless justified reasons prevent him from doing so, such as a hospitalization or a doctor's visit, the absence in the place of residence or residence on the indicated part of the day may be considered if he withdraws from the check and the employer may refuse payment of the guaranteed wage. The purpose of these provisions is to sanction a deliberate omission by the worker in question. The penalty may not be invoked in cases of force majeure or where, for a legitimate reason, the worker cannot submit to the control. Whether a lack of control is deliberate or due to a legitimate reason or force majeure must be assessed by the competent court. Before the change of law, in the absence of the employee, the auditor left a note stating that the person concerned was not present, but that has disappeared since the change in many organisations. Since it is the employer who requests a check, the employee can no longer spontaneously present himself to the control physician and runs the risk of losing part of the guaranteed wage. That may not have been the intention of the law. Madam Minister, do you not therefore consider it desirable for the law to be amended, so that an employee can once again present himself to the doctor if he has missed a check, instead of having to initiate proceedings before the court in order to prove that he was absent for a legitimate reason or by force majeure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u41	Mrs Lanjri, Article 31, Paragraph 3, second paragraph of the contract of employment law makes it possible to lay down in a collective agreement or employment regulations a part of a day of up to four consecutive hours between 7 a.m. and 20 a.m. during which an invalid worker must remain at the disposal of an auditor at his place of residence or residence. The aim of the availability period is to improve the possibility of medical surveillance on behalf of the employer. However, the availability period is merely a means of achieving the objective; the task of the auditor is not to check whether the worker is at home but only to check that the worker is actually disabled. If a compulsory period of residence is provided for, the absence of the sick worker may be regarded as evading a check, except in cases of force majeure or legitimate reasons. The law therefore recognises that there may be certain legitimate reasons for the absence of a sick worker during the mandatory period of residence. Let me give you a few examples: further examination with a general practitioner or medical specialist, hospitalization, pharmacy visit for urgent medication. It is up to the employee to provide proof of those legitimate reasons. If the employee does not provide this evidence, the employer may deny him the right to guaranteed remuneration from the moment of the fruitless home visit until the employee is effectively examined by the health inspector. The ball is in the employee's camp from that moment on. He may regain his right to guaranteed wages, but then he himself must take the necessary steps to be examined by the medical examiner. Of course, this requires the employee to know that the inspector has visited him in vain. It is not the intention of the law to deprive the employee of the opportunity to be checked. I therefore agree with you that it is desirable and also reasonable that the inspector should always leave a message in the employee's mailbox on a fruitless house visit, even if the employee is not at home during a mandatory availability period. The collective agreement or employment rules which determine such a period of availability could also clarify this further. If there is uncertainty about this which effectively leads to problems in practice, it may be considered to explicitly include such an obligation in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is indeed important to return to the essence of the law: to check whether the employee is effectively ill. If there are reasons why the employee is not present at the time of the check, they should be able to present themselves spontaneously. At least one must be aware of the fact that the inspector has been there. At the moment, a lot of organisations do not. It is good that we agree that this should change. Now it is done in some cases and a note is left, in others not. This is what everyone should be like. This avoids loss of wages and prevents people from having to go to court. This would be much more efficient. Perhaps you could take an initiative to ask the social partners to make maximum provision for this in collective agreements, so that we do not have to intervene with a law. This seems to me to be more of a collective agreement and I can see your agreement, for which I am grateful. If there were any problems after that, Parliament could always take a legislative initiative. However, it seems to me common sense to want to see this resolved after consultation between the social partners through collective agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u43	Madam President, Madam Minister, two thirds of the workers cannot be exhausted, making career savings possible, partly made possible by former Minister Peeters. Although it was initially thought that the system of career savings would not be established quickly, today we see that it is a success for both employers and employees, both asking parties. There are still problems with career savings for employees who make a career switch. Tackling that problem is a real challenge. The current scheme provides for financial compensation for workers who are going to pursue a profession in another sector through a career switch. However, as we are spending more and more time on the work-life balance today, the question arises as to whether there is also the possibility for people with a career switch to take leave days with them to the new employer. This also requires an inter-professional arrangement between all sectors, and I am aware that it is not so easy to organise. Madam Secretary, are steps already being taken in this respect? Do you see any possibility of developing an interprofessional arrangement with the social partners on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u44	Madam President, Mrs Farih, with regard to the transfer of leave days to another year, it is important, first of all, to distinguish between leave days in the context of statutory annual leave and additional leave days, which are sometimes granted on top of statutory annual leave. The first category of days of leave cannot be transferred to the following year under the legislation on annual leave, but this is possible under certain conditions for the additional days of leave. Through the system of career savings, employees can save additional leave periods granted by collective agreements at the level of the sector or enterprise, which can be freely included. This scheme for career savings was incorporated into the Law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work. A crucial condition in this respect is that the measure must first and foremost be activated at sectoral level through the conclusion of a collective agreement. In order to activate the measure, a referral to the sector must be made by an organisation represented on the Joint Committee or an individual undertaking concerned. In the absence of activation within a period of six months, a collective agreement can also be concluded at company level. The Law of 5 March 2017 allows sectors to determine, under the sectoral collective agreement on career savings, that the savings are transferable within the sector concerned. Since the entry into force of the measure on 1 February 2018 and until today, nine appeals have been filed and three sectoral collective agreements on career savings have been concluded. Moreover, none of these collective agreements allows the transferability of the savings within the sector concerned. Finally, as regards the legal system of career savings, I would remind you that in the period 2017-2018 the social partners and the NAR had a year to conclude an interprofessional collective agreement on career savings. Because they failed to do so, the legal system of career savings finally entered into force. However, the law of 5 March 2017 instructed the NAR to carry out an evaluation of the legal system as it currently exists from 1 January 2019. I will ask the NAR once again to carry out this evaluation and to develop a system to allow the transfer of holidays across sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u45	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Social Security FPS has recently reported alarming figures: the number of poor people in Belgium has increased by 56,000 in just ten years. At the same time, the risk of income-based poverty has reached its highest level since 2004. For information purposes, a person is at risk of poverty if he or she earns less than 60% of the median disposable income in Belgium. For an isolated person, the Belgian poverty line in 2018 was €1,187 per month and for a family of 2 adults and 2 children it was €2,493 per month. There are many reasons for this: difficult access to the labour market, reduced social protection, etc. The report also shows that the group most affected by these figures is that of workers in precarious situations. However, it is generally believed that the best protection against poverty and the best guarantee of maintaining the standard of living remain participation in the labour market. Minister, how do you explain this significant increase in the number of poor people in Belgium, specifically among workers? How many poor workers are estimated in our country? What answers could be provided to stem the phenomenon? Does an increase in social minimums seem desirable in order to improve the situation? Should an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, which protects the most vulnerable workers and which has not increased, excluding indexation, in more than ten years, finally be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u47	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, the first observation is that, compared to other countries, Belgium has one of the lowest poverty rates among the employed labour force. Second, the concept of poor workers is based on the following two definitions. The first is that of workers: individuals aged 18 to 64 are listed as active according to their most common working situation in the labour market. The unit taken into account is the individual. Secondly, poverty: this is a situation where the equivalent disposable income is less than 60% of the median disposable income. In terms of poverty, the unit taken into account is the household. Poverty at work is at the intersection of the two concepts. Individual wages are important, but the family situation and the intensity of work also play an undeniable role. Employment is an important factor in protecting against poverty, but it does not provide a full guarantee. In addition, I would like to mention that the 1.1 per cent increase in the minimum wage was part of the IPA. Unfortunately, it has not yet been implemented by the social partners in collective agreements. For subsequent increases, however, the effects on employment must always be taken into account. The next government has the important task of finding other ways to raise the net salary of this group. The observation in recent years shows that working poverty is increasing for some categories, but we also observe that within these categories the employment rate is lower (individuals with low qualifications). Overall, the risk of poverty of the employed labour force remains relatively stable, but in the background, negative developments appear in some sub-categories. The risk of poverty among workers varies greatly depending on the intensity of the work. For example, it is about 2 per cent for persons working full-time, about 5 per cent for persons working part-time and about 15 per cent for persons working less than 12 months a year. A small grade is needed: this represents a slight increase of 4.1%, in 2011, to 5.2%, in 2018. We cannot speak with certainty of a significant statistical increase. Therefore, no solid conclusion can be drawn from these figures because several factors could hypothetically explain this slight increase: a slower rise in wages below the median income, part-time or temporary work that cannot reach the poverty line, changes in the type of household, etc. However, we cannot determine to what extent these factors have an impact. The BRAIN study shows that workers work in non-conventional sectors and workers from low-work-intensity households are more exposed. Eurostat does not calculate the exact number of poor workers. The figures would fluctuate considerably due to the use of a sample and a confidence interval corresponding to the percentage of poor workers. This is probably the reason why this percentage is not extrapolated to an absolutely exact number. However, this figure could be calculated on the basis of micro-data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I believe that economic recovery has mainly benefited the middle classes and that we have focused on improving the purchasing power of those who work because, today, we know that the middle classes have a higher employment rate than the low-income households. As you said earlier, it is true that women often work part-time. I find it unfortunate that people who get up in the morning to go to work, whatever their situation, are not able to close their end of the month. The Wallonia figures show a risk of poverty of 21.8 per cent. This rate is high. The percentage of children living in households at risk of poverty increased sharply between 2016 and 2018. It seems to me that there is still a lot of work to be done at this level to increase the purchasing power of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u49	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you today about the saga of the computer system used by DG People with Disabilities. I'm back to the last episode that I'm known. In March 2017, Muriel Gerkens and other parliamentarians were questioning Zuhal Demir about this system, which, as soon as it was put in place, presented structural deficiencies. For example, electronic forms for filing or amending applications were completely inadequate. A climax, when we know that these forms supposed to reduce the workload of civil servants have actually increased by 4 to 6 times. It's a big deal, as we know these problems were known: in Ontario in 2014, then in the Netherlands and Minnesota. On the same day in March 2017, Ms Demir announced that she had notified Capgemini of her responsibilities, considering that the structural defects presented by this expensive computer system were more serious than the usual running problems. Minister, what is the status of the legal proceedings against Capgemini? What about the computer system currently used by DG People with Disabilities? Are any problems still reported to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u50	Madam President, due to the alleged defects and shortcomings in the performance of the contract, the SPF Social Security issued a notice in May 2017 to Capgemini for failure to comply with contractual obligations. As stipulated in the contract between SPF Social Security and Capgemini, the SPF decided to have an audit carried out by an IT expert. As long as this audit is in progress, the parties shall not initiate legal proceedings. The expert's report is expected this year. As far as we are concerned, the objective remains to recover a maximum amount. Tetra, the old computer system dating back to 2001, is still in use. The application is very obsolete and any adaptation entails risks for the provision of services. This is why SIG (Software Improvement Group) was tasked with finding another solution. Three tracks have been put forward: a migration to a platform without functional modification, a gradual block-by-block transition or a whole new system. The last solution seems the most appropriate from both a functional and architectural point of view. A special collaboration modality has been developed to entrust this operation to Smals. On 18 October 2019, on my proposal, this decision was validated by the Council of Ministers. Additional budgets were also allocated (€11 million). With the costs previously incurred and the planned budget, the total cost of this new development will be EUR 14.8 million. Various measures will be taken during the development of the new system to avoid errors that were made in 2017. During development, the new system will be deployed in several stages. This will make it easier to detect and solve problems faster. In addition, staff are closely involved in development and the application will also have an open architecture, allowing for easy adaptations in the future, for example in the event of changes in legislation. Finally, a solid project management is planned, in order to remain attentive during the development of the system via a group that brings together the administration, the firm and the developers. It was recently decided to expand the group to include a representative of persons with disabilities. The Steering Group approved the subsequent development planning. The new system will be fully operational by the end of 2023, when Unisys will stop hosting the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u51	Madam Secretary, doctors-specialists are an essential link in our healthcare system. They are usually consulted after referral by a general practitioner when a specialised approach is required. In order to gain the desired level of knowledge and skills in a specialist domain, intensive and often long-term training is needed. The combination of learning and working in an often stressful environment means that many hours are performed. The training also puts a lot of pressure on the doctor-specialist in particular. As specialists in training depend on the hospitals where they are internships and the specialist trainee who provides the training, it is very difficult for these specialists in training to refuse tasks. This increases the chance that specialists in training perform excessively many hours. There are forms in circulation on which working time can be recorded, but they are neither standardised nor anonymised. This therefore reduces the chance that they will be filled out truthfully. I have a number of questions on this, Madam Secretary. Firstly, what is the average weekly working time of medical specialists in training based on the data provided by hospitals? Secondly, are there any labour inspections to check the figures submitted by hospitals on the working hours of doctors-specialists in training? Why is that? Why is that? What were the results of that? Thirdly, have there been audits with doctors-specialists in training to check the figures submitted by hospitals? Why is that? Why is that? What were the results of that? Finally, what actions can you take to facilitate and, above all, make the registration of doctors-specialists in training working time more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u52	Ms Gijbels, the working hours of doctors-specialists in training are governed by the law of 12 December 2010. An average of 48 hours a week may be worked. Anyone who wishes to perform 12 additional hours must record this in a separate, individual and written agreement. The employer must keep the daily performance of these doctors in a register at the workplace. This can also be done electronically. Only the employee's identity and hours worked must be kept up to date. It is therefore a simple procedure. If an employer does not keep this register or does not keep it properly, he may incur a level 2 penalty under the Social Criminal Code. It concerns a criminal fine of 400 to 4,000 euros, or an administrative fine of 200 to 2,000 euros per employee involved. I cannot give you specific figures on the average working time per week of doctors-specialists in training. The FOD WASO does not have this data. There is no obligation for hospitals to deliver them to the FPS. The RSZ is also unable to provide these figures because employers do not have to report hours, as is the case for other full-time employees. The Labour Inspectorate Monitoring the Social Laws controls the working hours of all employees, including doctors-specialists in hospital training. However, no specific figures for this category of profession can be distilled from their statistics. As regards the specific working hours in hospitals, the Labour Inspectorate checked 26 companies in 2017 and 2018. 22 infringements of the working time regime were identified. In doing so, the Labour Inspectorate issued six warnings for minor infringements. The other 16 infringements were regularized. These regularisations resulted in additional wages and/or recruitments of 6.5 million euros. No minutes had to be made because all infringements were corrected by the employers concerned. Once again, this concerns the checks on the working time of all workers in this sector. The Labour Inspectorate also informed me that she receives little or no complaints from this professional category. Nevertheless, further checks will be carried out in order to enforce the correct application of the 2010 law. To my knowledge, there have also been no audits carried out by the government on the working hours of doctors-specialists in training. Mrs. Gijbels, I suspect you've been visited by the students. They came to see me, too. Because of my past in the Committee on Health, I know the problem quite well. We know that this situation is not always very well aligned because there is a double hat on it. A doctor is often also associated with the university and these are very specific disciplines for which the number of trainers and places is very small. As a result, there will be no rapid tendency to bring matters before the Court. I have instructed my administration and the Labour Inspectorate to continue to monitor this and carry out checks. One must keep the finger on the wrist effectively. I am somewhat out of my jurisdiction here, but I think that Parliament and a future government should look at the status of doctors-specialists globally. Today, for example, general practitioners are already in a completely different training system. I believe that there is still work to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u53	Madam Minister, I am glad to hear that you are aware of the problem and that you are prepared to keep an eye on it. That is also necessary when we hear that one in three of the doctors-specialists in training is at risk of burning out, 10% actually suffers from a burn-out. There are also sometimes psychological problems, which may compromise the ability to empathy for the patient. So we need to follow that up. The problem lies indeed in the unequal relationship between trainer, employer and student. Perhaps we should consider an independent hotline where such complaints can be reported anonymously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u54	Minister, "the reform of access to integration allowances undertaken by the Michel government has not improved young people's access to employment". I'm not saying it. This is the severe balance sheet – for a policy that was just as similar – drawn up by the recent study by the National Bank of Belgium (NBB). It also states that measures to encourage young people to find employment appear to have had only a marginal impact on youth employment. Worse, the measure even had a perverse effect. When they lose their entitlement to benefits, the obligation to register or Forem, with Actiris or with the VDAB ceases. There is a real risk that these people will then disappear from the radar of the placement services and have even more difficulty finding a job. What was not my surprise at this eventuality! Therefore, minister, can you explain to us what is in the interest of this measure? Do you intend to consider this study and review the law? How can you really and structurally respond to the legitimate expectations of young people seeking employment? How do you intend to protect them from the risk of falling into poverty, for lack of income, when we are once again proved that punishment, deprivation and stress are obstacles to leading a dignified life?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u55	Madam Minister, my colleague has already clearly outlined the problem. I had a lot of discussions on this with your predecessor, Minister Peeters, during the previous legislature. Because young people no longer have to register with an employment service, they almost disappear from the radar for the government. I'm recapitulating. We have long feared that this is actually a saving measure, while the government proposed it as a way of making young people more active. If they had no prospect of a benefit, they would find work more quickly, according to the government. A study by the National Bank now shows that there is hardly any impact on employment. We have always warned against this. A side effect, but important to us, is that the Michel Government's measure affects women disproportionately: 60% of those involved are women. It is very interesting to find out why the measure is not activating. According to the investigation, the entanglement is failing its purpose, just because it takes a year to obtain a benefit. Those who are sensitive to the incentive not to receive benefits have usually already found work by then. For unemployed people who are less or less sensitive to this financial incentive, the termination of the benefit has little effect. These people are probably better helped with more intense guidance, personal contact and a thoughtful activation, as the research shows. It is precisely there that the shoe is pinching, as I have just outlined, because it is not necessary to register with an employment service. Madam Secretary, how are you looking at the results of the investigation? Are you prepared to re-implement the waiting allowance for young people if you are supported by a majority in this House? After all, the measure does not achieve its objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u56	Madam Minister, I will be brief and concise, most of it has already been said. The allowance is reserved for young people with a higher secondary education diploma and does not apply to young people without a diploma. The study by the National Bank shows that the measure did not increase the employment opportunities of young people without qualifications at all. They are better helped with intense guidance, personal contact and thoughtful activation. Those with a diploma have already found their own job after a year, while the payment or not of an integration allowance has no impact on those without a diploma. My questions are about the same as those of my colleague. I am particularly concerned about the situation, because it concerns young people in a precarious situation and it must be the intention of them to re-participate in society. Now they are threatening to disappear from the radar because they are no longer registered for employment services. Are you prepared, of course with the support of a majority in Parliament, to withdraw the diploma requirement from the regulations and to grant all young people an integration allowance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the time limit for the waiting allowance, since then called the integration allowance, was implemented under the Di Rupo Government. The Michael administration then refined the scheme on a number of aspects. The study to which you refer concerns two of the refinements and does not deal with the reform as a whole. Moreover, it should be noted that the study was commissioned by the National Bank of Belgium, but that the conclusions do not bind the bank, but only its authors, as explicitly stated in the study. Like any policy evaluation, I can only welcome this study. Of course, it is my successor who will have to draw the conclusions with regard to any possible amendments to the legislation. The study looks at two specific groups, university graduates over 25 years of age and school leavers without a secondary education diploma under 21 years of age. For both, access to the benefit was indeed deleted in 2015. The last group will be re-accessed in 21 years. The aim of the measure is primarily to guide study behaviour, but its effects are not investigated in the study. The study focused solely on the likelihood of finding a job and found no significant effects. This is regrettable, but it is not the first intention of the measure which, moreover, does not reduce the chances of finding a job. Nevertheless, supporting young people towards employment remains essential and is a task and competence of the Regions and the Communities. The study does not investigate the outflow into poverty or the other issues raised in the questions. However, I would like to point out that anyone who does not have access to an integration allowance or other unemployment benefit can, of course, rely on the living wage, the aim of which is to remove people from poverty. As the study points out, school leavers in most countries can only benefit from benefits such as our living wage. Even after the reforms, our system will rightly continue to offer better protection to young people without professional experience than is provided for in most European Union countries. In this context, compulsory registration as a jobseeker under an integration allowance may be an aid, but it is no more than that. Those who receive a living wage should also register as a job seeker. The services of the regional employment services are of course also open to those who volunteer without obligation. The first incentive to register as a job seeker is not a benefit but the desire to work. I would also like to give an example of the following figures on the socio-economic situation after the end of the entitlement to benefits. You will note that six months after the end of the entitlement to benefits in 2015 12.6 % of the recovered streamers were at work. In the first semester of 2018, this increased to 42.6 %. The measure therefore had a positive effect. I will forward the table to the secretariat so that it can be added to the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you. The aim of such a reform and even its adjustments, based on the political assumption that withdrawal of allowances can motivate young people to go to work, leaves me somewhat sceptical. You also tell me that this is not the primary interest of the measure. Is it then a question of saving money? In that case, it seems to me all the more serious. The situation of unemployed young people is very special. When they are between the ages of 18 and 25, they seek a career path and identity. It is probably at that time that it is necessary to avoid as much as possible stigmatizing them and locking them in a cycle from which they will find it difficult to get out. On the other hand, I know that you are not in a position to make any adjustments, since the government is in the business of day-to-day business. However, I hope that in the near future the future government will be able to take charge of these young job seekers in order to support them in their positive projects, instead of maintaining a culture of punishment, stress and deprivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u59	I have often debated the issue with Minister Peeters. There's no one-on-one relationship. Not all of these young people can just turn to the OMCW, because they are often still part of a family that has a sufficient income. They're disappearing off the radar. There's a lot of diversity in that group. In the previous system they were excluded. It's very important that I was always here asking for a better view of the problem and to keep looking for ways to bring those groups in, to avoid them disappearing off the radar. It wouldn't have come that far with us. The desire for work is also a complex aspect. I'm still hungry. The study confirms that we no longer reach a group of people. I am convinced that we must continue to work on this problem. For some, this means a closer succession.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u60	Looks like I didn't get an answer. Young people who are not currently receiving integration benefits and who, according to the study, are not encouraged to look for work, have in common that they do not have a diploma. Young people without qualifications form a diverse group. The causes can be diverse. We all have an interest in ensuring that these young people are also caught up and given intensive guidance. It is not just about working for me, but also about participation in society as a whole, so that there are no outlaws that feel excluded their whole lives, with all the consequences of that. Our group already tabled a legislative proposal in the previous legislature, and now again, in order to give these young people a further reception allowance. So we are going to take that bill again and we hope to get support for it from the other groups that have spoken here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u61	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the answer to a written question I asked you about the single unemployed, a number of things stand out. There are differences between the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels-Capital regions. The differences between the Flemish and Walloon regions are particularly striking. In 2018, there were 2,383 single unemployed with family burden in Flanders. In Wallonia, there were 6.155 in the same year. If we look at the corresponding contributions paid in 2018, we notice that in Wallonia more than double contributions have been paid than in Flanders. It is also striking that the number of single unemployed is a large proportion of the total number of unemployed. I also notice, for example, that in the first half of 2019, 14% of the unemployed in Wallonia had a family burden compared with only 6.5 % in Flanders and 8.6 % in Brussels. My questions in this connection are as follows. Firstly, are there any logical explanations for the large differences between the regions in terms of the number of single unemployed with family burden? Are there certain demographic or other factors that can explain that difference? Do you have relevant figures or information on this matter? Secondly, how does the federal policy on employment, labour law and poverty take into account that target group? Have concrete policy actions been taken in recent years to support the target group or to reduce their distance from the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u62	Madam President, Mr Anseeeuw, some of the differences between the regions can be explained by demographic data. The Flemish Region has relatively fewer single people than the other Regions. The Walloon Region also has a larger number of single-parent families within the group than the other regions. Brussels is somewhat atypical in these areas: it has the highest proportion of single people but a relatively limited proportion of single-parent families. It should be borne in mind that the metropolitan profile in Brussels has different effects in certain areas compared to the larger and varied geographical distribution in the other regions. We must also take into account the fact that the number of unemployed is higher in Wallonia and Brussels. However, I would also like to point out that in Flanders there are also great differences, for example between West Flanders, not to mention our region, and Limburg or Antwerp. The federal policy on unemployment does take account of the specific situation of single people. A comprehensive discussion of all the differences between people living together and single people in the policy areas of work, labour law and poverty might lead us too far. However, there are a number of points I can make in relation to unemployment. For example, the unemployed are divided into three categories, one of which is specifically intended for those living alone. Depending on the period of unemployment, benefits for this group are higher than those for conjugal injuries without family burden. If the child is living alone, he or she will be regarded as a cohabitant with a family burden and thus receive the same benefit as a couple, one of whom is dependent on the other unemployed person. Another example can be found in the area of thematic leave. A worker who resides exclusively with dependent children receives a higher interruption allowance. Also in the case of the time-credit with a fifth, the break allowance for a single person is higher than for a cohabitant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u63	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am glad that you and I find that there are indeed differences. I can see from your answer that the two main factors are the demographic differences between the regions, in which Brussels will give an atypical picture because Brussels is quite unique in our country. The second factor is the higher unemployment rate in the Walloon Region compared to that in the Flemish Region. I understand that you cannot give a comprehensive anthology, given the Rules of Procedure and the chronometer that has now entered the committee, but that will be discussed later. I have another question. You referred to the differences between the provinces. Can you tell me at what different levels these figures are kept? I have requested them by Region, but your answer shows that they also exist per province. At what other levels are they classified or maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u64	We have the figures per province and per RVA office, and within the RVA office we still have them by city or city.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u65	Madam Minister, it became clear from the answer to my written question on recurrent foreign employers that there is no black list of recurrent foreign employers who refuse to cooperate with our national inspection services. You indicate that there has been some thought about the drawing up of such a list, but that this has never been worked out in concrete terms. Mr Raskin asked questions about this in the previous parliamentary term to the then Secretary of State for the fight against social fraud, Bart Tommelein. He said in committee on 21 October 2015 that there is a list of companies that have repeatedly run into difficulties and violated the rules of posting and that such a list is kept in the Monitoring of Social Laws, albeit only internally. He stated that again in a reply to a written question from Mr Raskin on 1 December 2015. You will not be surprised that I was surprised when I read the answer to the written question I asked on 27 August 2019. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions for clarification. Has the Supervision of Social Laws kept such a list? After all, the response of August 2019 is in stark contrast to what was said in the same Parliament in 2015. If there is such a list, how many foreign companies are on this blacklist? If not, why did they stop keeping a list or why did they not start it? How come something else was told here in 2015? If the list exists, what is the evolution of the number of companies since the Monitoring of Social Laws started to follow up these foreign companies? If the list exists, can I get the figures per year and per location of the company for the period 2015 to 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u66	Mr Anseuw, I am afraid I shall have to disappoint you on the list, because we do not have it. We asked them to the administration, and she doesn't have any. I can, and that is the objective, say what we are doing effectively. During the period 2015-2019, the specialized cells Labour Posted Workers Network of the Labour Inspection Monitoring of Social Laws handled more than 7,000 files against foreign companies. During the same period there was one foreign company against which five EPVs were produced during the same period. There were five foreign companies against which four pro-justitia were made up and twenty companies that were demolished three times. There were also 164 companies for which two pro-justitia were transferred to the Labour Auditorate during the same period. However, in substance it often appears to be the same infringement during the same period, but in another region. It may also initially concern the prevention of supervision or the non-sending of pay documents, after which these pay documents can be obtained in a different way, after which a uniform procedure can be drawn up indicating the precise wage deficit per employee. In other words, a considerable number of pro-justitia's are about the same object or time. So it soon turned out that focusing on the company was not the right approach. This is only logical, as posting must by definition be of limited duration. Article 12 of Regulation No. 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems provides that the person who carries on an activity as an employed person in a Member State on behalf of an employer who normally carries on his activity there, and who is seconded by that employer to carry on activities in another Member State on his behalf, shall remain subject to the legislation of the first Member State, provided that the expected duration of that activity does not exceed 24 months and that the person concerned is not sent to replace another posted person. The foreign firms which are really in bad faith try to circumvent these rules by continuing the same activities with the same organisers and the same employees under the heading of another firm. More important than focusing on companies, it is therefore important to focus on the organisers of such carousels and to pay attention to employees who sometimes for years carry out the same activities with the same users but through different firms, even sometimes from other sending countries. This requires the expertise of people in the field. Thus, as such, there is no formal blacklist of recurrent foreign companies. Apart from the objections that might arise from the GDPR rules, the nature of the rules on posting makes little sense. The evolved approach to focus on the organizers and the flows of employees has meanwhile led to a number of ongoing judicial investigations. These show promising results. Mr Anseuw, I believe that it is above all the results that count here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u67	Thank you for clarifying this once and for all, Madam Secretary. We have broken our heads about this a little bit. I understand from your explanation that the focus is on the organizers. That makes sense to me, too. I will put forward a number of follow-up questions, starting with written questions, because I am curious to see what the results are in detail. You have already given us a number of figures. I understand that one can change hats quickly if one wants to do the same with another company. I also understand that the number of CVs is not always a good measure to list the number of different facts because more than one CV can be drawn up for the same infringement. Thank you for the clarification. This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, periods worked in another EU country for determining entitlement to unemployment benefit in Belgium are included. In the past, this allowed EU citizens, in some cases, to exercise the right to unemployment benefit in Belgium after one day's work. To counter that prosperity tourism, the Michel I government decided in 2016 to add a working period of at least three months as a condition of access to unemployment benefits in Belgium. Rumour has it that a new regulation on the coordination of social security systems is being drawn up at European level, with a new European agreement on a one-month working requirement. We would therefore like to reach one month as a condition of access to our unemployment benefit and an extension of the export of unemployment benefits to another EU country from three to six months. The reason is a decision by the new Finnish Presidency not to re-examine all aspects on which a certain agreement was reached in the spring trialogue. These include the unemployment measure against which the government has always resisted in the past. The Finnish Presidency intends to limit the dialogue to a short list of topics in the coming months, which would not cover these unemployment measures. This implies moving towards an agreement which goes against the position taken by the Belgian Government earlier. I have a few questions about this, of course. Will Belgium continue to oppose a reduction in the employment requirement for EU citizens to just one month and an extension of the export of unemployment benefits to another EU country from three to six months? In order to be entitled to unemployment benefit, it is normally necessary to have a main place of residence in Belgium and to stay abroad for a maximum of 24 days a year. In order to avoid prosperity tourism, it is important that this requirement is adequately monitored. We learn from the recent report on Compensation for Totally Unemployed at the Court of Auditors that checks on cases not known to the National Register often take place on an ad hoc basis, i.e. if there are problems with the control card or if monthly samples can be used. The question therefore arises as to whether the resources available to the payout institutions and the RVA today to check the residence condition are already sufficient to detect all cases. The same report stresses that the RVA still does not have access to the Privacy Commission to check the stay by checking the IP address when completing the electronic control card. Has that problem been solved yet? Finally, the same report states that there would be work on a structural exchange of data between the regional employment services and the RVA on the availability of unemployed people's labour market data. To what extent is the exchange of information already in the scaffolding? I see from the time I have used that I am best able to share such a question in the future, then you will have a little more time to answer. I apologize, Madam Secretary, but I can't do much about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u69	I just wanted to say that these are a lot of questions. In fact, it's two separate questions. I'll try to answer quickly. In the period of pending cases before the federal government, Belgium retains its position in this file as determined before the fall of the government, i.e. three months worked in the competent Member State as an entry requirement for the unemployment benefit and three months export of these benefits to another EU country. I have also formally and informally taken this position very clearly at the last EPSCO Council. As you rightly point out, this has been passed on to the new Commission. On 19 March there will be a new EPSCO Council. There is a group of like-minded countries which, for various reasons, have comments within the framework of the Directive. Let me be very clear: we hold on to our position. We'll keep doing that. You can ask a follow-up question about this around 19 March. The actual residence in Belgium is checked by the RVA, both on a sample basis and on the basis of designation by the unemployed person, in accordance with procedure C66bis. As part of this procedure, an average of 18 000 cases are monitored on an annual basis. The reason for non-use of the IP address used to enter the control card electronically is twofold. First, the Privacy Commission gave a negative opinion on the use of the IP address for the verification of the residence. It considers that this is incompatible with the purpose of the control card, namely to determine the amount of benefit. Secondly, the proposal to amend the unemployment benefit, which would allow the RVA to check the actual residence in Belgium via the IP address used to access the electronic application to complete the control card, did not receive a unanimous opinion from the social partners. The employers' side has advised positively, the employees' side negative. That is why my predecessor decided not to implement this measure. In the meantime, no further steps have been taken in that file. In addition, the use of the IP address does not provide any explanation as to the legal residence of the unemployed person. The procedure whereby the regional employment services may transfer to the RVA the problematic situations they discover in the performance of their assignments and which may affect the entitlement to unemployment benefit is operational since December 2018. On the other hand, the impact of the authorisation obtained from the Information Security Committee to allow the RVA to communicate to the regional employment services the problematic situations which they discover on matters for which the RVA is no longer competent, such as voluntary unemployment, registration as a job seeker, availability and exemptions, and which may affect the tasks of the abovementioned regional employment services, is still ongoing. Technical details still need to be developed so that the transfer procedure will become operational during the first quarter of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. I am pleased that the government maintains the same position in current cases as was agreed at the time in the Michael I government. I think it is extremely important that there is no discussion on this today. Regardless of the composition of the government in the future, I hope that this position will not be relaxed. I will respond very briefly to the other answers you have given me. Personally, I am somewhat disappointed that privacy can apparently still serve as a pubic patch behind which fraudsters can hide. I know very well that an IP address often does not provide an indication of the whereabouts of the person filling out the form, but in many cases it can at least be an indication. It can provide good guidance and support for a targeted fight against social fraud. I also hope that good solutions can be found in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u71	Madam President, Madam Minister, in small cases the employee has the right to be absent from work, while retaining his or her normal wage, on the occasion of family events, for the fulfilment of civic obligations or of civil contracts and in the event of appearance before the courts. As far as family events are concerned, there are more and more new situations where little attention is not permitted by law. Since the entry into force of the Royal Decree in 1963, the family models have changed and are highly diversified. People divorce and remarry more often and there are more composite families and single parent families. According to the Flemish family survey in 2018, one in ten families with children is a newly composed family. The following real situations outline the problem of this obsolete royal decree. More and more stepchildren grow up together, but according to law it is not possible to get small attention for the marriage of a stepbrother or sister. At the same time, it is possible to have three days in which the employee's stepmother or father dies. When a child is adopted and subsequently re-contacts his or her biological parents, it is also impossible in this situation to get small amounts for the funeral of a biological parent. More and more grandparents are remarrying. We have recently seen that there are also more divorces at a later age due to the independence of women in the labour market. In this situation, too, it is impossible as a grandchild to pay attention to the marriage of a grandparent. Madam Secretary, I have the following general questions. What is your reaction to the fact that these new family forms are there, that sometimes they change over time, but sometimes they are also very clear? A stepbrother or sister is a stepbrother or sister, a grandparent is a grandparent, but a number of things have changed. Of course we are in ongoing business, but do you see opportunities there, or at least the spirit of change that is needed after 60 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u72	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, the right of the employee to remain absent from work while maintaining his normal wage on the occasion of certain family events or the fulfillment of certain civic obligations or of civil contracts is a minor consideration. The events giving the right to minor dereliction are listed exhaustively by Royal Decree of 28 August 1963. The duration of absence and the period during which absence may be recorded shall be determined for each event. In the case of collective agreements concluded at sectoral level or at company level or in individual contracts of employment, more favourable arrangements may be agreed than those provided for in the royal decree referred to above. A sectoral analysis of the rules relating to minor delays in my department shows that a total of 90 joint committees and sub-committees have concluded a collective agreement on these matters. The majority of sectoral schemes extend the right to small amounts, both in terms of the number of days and events. The analysis also shows that several sectors in this context also take account of new family forms and, for example, equate children or parents of the partner with their own family. Indeed, some specific adjustments could be considered directly in the Royal Decree concerned in order to better align the rules across the sectors with new family forms. In this context, it is primarily up to the social partners to express their views on any extension of the right to small businesses. An opinion of the National Labour Council is also required by law in this context. It is therefore appropriate, in my view, for the social partners to assess these questions in the context of an overall analysis on the improvement, simplification and alignment of the various leave systems that exist today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u73	Madam President, Minister, that is a good answer. Of course, this has to be looked at by the NAR. Perhaps we can also give Parliament a little push, by making a proposal and asking for an opinion. It would be good to have that tie-up. This can be very interesting for those who are not yet covered by such a joint committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u74	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 13 January various media reported on the purchase of new M7 wagons by SNCB. This was done in response to Mr Roggeman's reply to a written question. In the 2017 Summer Agreement, at the initiative of Ms Zuhal Demir, then State Secretary responsible for Persons with a Handicap, an appointment was made to standardise the height of the trains and of the platforms in the long term. It would be taken into account when purchasing new wagons and when drawing up a new management agreement. The last two policy papers of Secretary of State Demir confirmed that commitment. It now appears that the SNCB will purchase wagons that are not tailored to the platform heights. However, accessible trains are a basic condition for people with disabilities to participate fully in society and the labour market. Have you had any contact with the Minister for Mobility on the matter? Due to the varying platform heights, the wagons of type M7 are not accessible. Did he make the decision to order them with you? In the Summer Agreement, not only was there to standardise train and platform heights, there would also be a clear auditory and visual signaling in trains and stations, adapted to the needs of people with disabilities. That agreement could be included in the new management agreement, which is still awaited. Have you had any contact with SNCB or with the Minister for Mobility about the new management agreement with SNCB or about the objectives of the Summer Agreement? If so, what has been discussed or decided in concrete terms? When was the recently communicated decision taken to buy new M7 wagons? Does that recent order form part of a new decision or is it an extension of a previous decision? Do you think that the ordering of new M7 wagons jeopardises the objective of aligning train and platform heights to make them sufficiently accessible for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u75	Mr Anseuw, a disabled person who works, studies or travels must be able to move on his own, just like any other traveller. Ideally there is no height difference between the wagons and the platforms anymore and the horizontal distance or gap is also limited. Efforts have already been made and are underway to improve platform heights, but we can only see that the accessibility of trains and platforms today does not meet the legitimate expectations of users with reduced mobility. The current management contract includes a commitment to improving accessibility for people with visual and auditory disabilities, but this should be extended to the stations, platforms, websites and the whole of the service. The current SNCB management contract would run from 2008 to 2012, but is still in force for the time being. Negotiations on the new management contract have been ongoing for several years and have not yet been concluded. I asked the Minister responsible for drafting a new management contract that it would be more ambitious in terms of accessibility for people with reduced mobility. It is important to cooperate with disabled people themselves and with the National High Council for Persons with Disability. Everything relating to the order of wagons is the responsibility of the Minister for Mobility. He is also solely responsible for all information about the ordering procedure. He can also decide on this without submitting it to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u76	Madam Minister, your answer was very enlightening, taking into account what you did not say. After all, I have asked a number of questions about the ordering procedure, especially to know to what extent you were involved or at least consulted. I can tell from your non-verbal communication that you have not been involved. I find it particularly regrettable and almost cynical that cold-track trains and wagons are purchased, while one knows that it is not rocket science that 42 percent of the platforms in our country are 28 centimetres high and that the new wagons have to bridge a height difference of 34 centimetres on almost half of the platforms in the Belgian stations. It is very cynical and regrettable that that reflex was not there. I also asked when you were aware, but you did not reply. I assume that you can always contradict me, because I have 57 seconds left and you may use some of my speaking time to say that you have not been consulted in advance or informed. Is that right? I think it's important to know. If we want everyone to be able to participate in society, everyone with an executive mandate and a parliamentary mandate must be aware of that. It is about a large and vulnerable group, which is already not easy to participate fully in our society. I regret what happened. I would like to know whether and when you have been informed of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u77	The order that was now made was made on the basis of the conditions in the loading book of the first order. I can only say that, under my authority, I have also made my point in the context of the new management agreement and have pointed out the need to be included in the new management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u78	Minister, this Monday, January 13, a new strike movement for workers again highlighted the difficult working conditions of workers and workers. In the domestic aid sector under service titles, trade unions are calling for an increase of 13 cents per hour, which is refused for the time being. At the same time, many women workers are currently dependent, in terms of their travel costs, on the clients they are assigned. This is unfair because it creates wage inequality between household workers. I know that many elements depend on the Regions. I also know that, in the face of these findings and the internal conflict in this sector, you have mobilized a conciliator. If my information is correct, if my memories of your remarks in plenary are correct, it is a first step and it is good news. Today, Madam Minister, the situation remains blocked. However, it would be entirely possible to support this sector and the Regions by means of concrete measures: to clarify reimbursement costs, to support continuing training and to organise timetables in a decent way. These are just a few examples. I trust your creativity to find other solutions. Madam Minister, given the current political situation, have you still considered concrete measures to enable these women and men to work in dignity? What concrete measures, such as negotiations with the Regions, have you already developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u79	Madam, in her role as chairman of the Joint Committee, the social conciliator in charge of the matter in my administration has recently tried, through bilateral talks, to break the deadlock in the negotiations. The dispute mainly concerns the negotiation of a wage agreement, up to 1.1% of the wage standard, and the form that this wage agreement should take. Trade unions are calling for a gross wage increase. Employers prefer to grant a single net premium for 2020, which unions consider inappropriate. This week, the conciliator will work to get in touch with both sides. We understand the demand of workers in the service securities sector. Men and women in the household do difficult physical work which is of great social importance for many families with both parents working, but also for the elderly who can no longer do everything themselves. At the same time, it is logical that wage agreements should be concluded between employers and workers. Moreover, we cannot intervene in social dialogue. It is the Regions that are responsible for the price of service securities, the subsidization of service securities companies and their tax deductibility. The competent Flemish Minister has asked her administration for a cost-effectiveness study. This study is expected in the short term. In this way, it will become clear what the situation and opportunities are for companies in the sector. The government's tax shift has in any case given the sector a financial margin. Of course, we will remain in contact with the Flemish Minister of Employment in order to be able to monitor the progress of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u80	Madam Minister, thank you. I am pleased to hear you say that we must support this sector and that, in this context, even the federal government has its share to make. I hope that we will be able to try to find alternatives, opportunities for development in the means, in the competences that we have in the federal Parliament. We have limits. I can hear that, but I think that if all the work on conciliation did not succeed or remained in a state of deadlock, we could look for other alternatives, either within this Parliament or within the government to be able to support the sector more. I thank you, in any case, for the initiative you have taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u81	Madam President, Minister, I have just tabled this question, but events are very recent. On Wednesday 8 January, two staff members were fired immediately at the MFC Levenlust in Sint-Martens-Lennik. I've both met in person. The following day, on Thursday 9 January, another union delegate was fired from the chemical company Ineos Phenol in Antwerp. The work was put there immediately and that strike is still going on. In both companies no real reason was given for the dismissal. It is also noted that the trade union representatives are greatly respected by the staff. At Ineos Phenol the strike is still ongoing, while at the MFC Levenlust a strike announcement was filed before 21 January. It is also striking that the three trade union representatives were dismissed just before the occult period. This is the period when new protection begins to run before the next social elections. This period before the occult period is sometimes called the solder period. I do not like this for those concerned, because the variable redundancy allowance is at that time the lowest and the employees no longer have a representative. Moreover, this intimidates other candidates for the social elections. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. I hope you agree with me that this is not part of the objective. I am in favour of social dialogue. I believe that social dialogue at all levels can bring enormous added value. We have only discussed crisis measures this morning in this committee at a hard Brexit. If a company is to take such measures, the need for good social dialogue seems to me to be more than necessary, in order to create a basis for support and to overcome difficult periods. If, in the run-up to social elections, new candidates are intimidated in this way, I do not think that this is in any way consistent with the philosophy behind social elections. I therefore hope that you will agree with me that this is completely contrary to the philosophy of social dialogue and the social elections. Will mediation be set up in the companies concerned so that the conflict does not escalate and the social elections can proceed in complete serenity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u82	Madam Minister, I have talked about this in plenary in the same context. It was said rather narrowly that it seemed like it was about a file of my own, but in the meantime we see that there are a lot of files. The previous speaker already spoke about Levenlust in Lennik and Ineos in Antwerp. Life lust is a non-profit organisation and concerns three people, two of whom are delegates. Those people did their job well and had good evaluations where there was nothing to say. They were concerned about staff problems, such as timetables, overtime, etc. We have long been critical of the protection of trade unionists in our country. It's not good enough. The people I've spoken to would prefer to keep their jobs and not choose the compensation. When you talk about the spirit of life, that non-profit association will fall into the cost. The people in question would much rather do their job and stand up for the young people with behavioral problems. We do not understand why the employer wants to put money into that rather than spend it on the people who need it. Have there been any contacts on your part with the Executive Board of Levenslust? If not, are you planning to do this? If so, did you insist that the decision be reversed? Do you recognise the problem of the solder period, namely that trade unionists are cheaper just before the occult period? How would you solve that? Will you take steps to better protect the status of staff delegate from arbitrary dismissal? Are you prepared to set up a central monitoring system to monitor the issue quantitatively and in terms of content? I read in an article by the CSC that in the last trimester of the last year more than sixty trade unionists were fired. Sixty people in one trimester, that's not negative. So much for the question of the lust for life. Then the question about Ineos. As the previous speaker said, action is being taken in this company with 180 employees. The man in question has been working there for 20 years and has mapped out a lot of dangerous situations around safety. Recently there is a new plant manager called "the Trump." So that also says something about what kind of manager it is. He is not at all prepared to go into consultation with the workers, while this is an effective trade union representative standing up for the workers. I know from my own experience that trade union representatives are primarily responsible for ensuring that the employer applies the law. As a minister, you should be in favour of employers applying the law. If that first line of trade unionists, who have to take care of it, are dismissed, then you will have to work with the social inspection, which will have to solve the problems in the companies. That's not a good thing. Ineos is a large multinational company. Are you going to try to intervene in order for them to come back to that decision? Are you prepared to take on an intermediary role in the future in the dismissal of trade union representatives? As Minister of Work, do you think that the government can decide to stop subsidies to such companies as long as such situations occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u83	The Law of 19 March 1991 prohibits employers from putting an end to the employment relationship with an employee who enjoys protection against dismissal. Employees may be dismissed only for an urgent reason which was previously accepted by the labour court and for reasons of an economic or technical nature which were previously recognised by the competent joint committee or, in the absence thereof, by the labour court. In the event of irregular dismissal, a protected worker shall be entitled to a flat-rate allowance equivalent to the current salary for a period of two to four years, depending on his seniority in the undertaking. In addition, if the employer fails to respond to a demand for reintegration, he shall be liable for a variable remuneration equal to the wage for the remainder of the term of office. The dismissal protection introduced by this Act starts on day X-30 during the period traditionally referred to as the occult period. The questions relate to the dismissal of staff members who thus already enjoy protection just before the beginning of this occult period. You will understand that I cannot comment on individual redundancies and whether or not these redundancies are linked to the possible protection of the workers concerned because they would be candidates for the social elections. If the parties to these social conflicts so wish, they may request the assistance of a competent social mediator. I understand there are actions already in progress. We have not yet received a question, but it is quite clear that we can ask for the intervention of a social mediator. In general, I would like to say that the importance of social elections is particularly great. This gives the company's participation bodies democratic legitimacy. It is essential that all workers who wish to do so should be free to stand for election. The protection of candidates for the social elections is therefore essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u84	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that you cannot comment on these individual cases here, but I am pleased that you say that they can call for social mediation. I think it is important that the conflict does not escalate and that the social elections there can proceed in complete serenity. In addition, I agree with my colleague. I met these two people of Levenslust on the day of their resignation, when they would announce their candidacy with other candidates. The atmosphere was of course below all levels, but even then they made the effort to call the young people they accompanied. They called those young people with behavioral and learning disorders to calm them down, because they were also impressed by the sudden resignation. The VBO said a few weeks ago that the fire protection is too broad. I can see the opposite now. I think it is important that we refine that, which requires a legal initiative. That is certainly not a question for you, but perhaps we should look at it further and ensure that such redundancies are systematically examined by the administration in advance in order to determine whether there is no discrimination based on syndical belief and whether effective reintegration is no longer possible. The two trade unionists I have seen will probably receive compensation for unfair dismissal, but in fact they would have preferred to continue their work and their commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u85	Madam President, Minister, I personally believe that more can be done. Surely you have a great responsibility as Minister of Work. These are situations in which the employer has irregularly dismissed someone. This is about the people of the lust for life. Shooting three people costs a lot of money. That money could be much better used to keep the jobs, so that young people who are entitled to good care can be provided. You also did not answer my question about a monitoring system. We want centralization so that we can get a better view of this problem. The article of the ACV-CSC shows that sixty people were fired in the last trimester of 2019. That's not negative. We are talking about people who stand up for the workers who get fired and then disappear. In the case of restructuring, too, we see that employers benefit from throwing out trade union representatives. I'd also like to talk about Ineos. It is a fact that these people are so supported by the workers and that the employer is regarded as someone who does not want social dialogue. I think you'll have a responsibility as a minister. Can you not say that such companies that do not benefit from the social dialogue receive subsidies? Surely more stringent action could be taken against such companies that operate in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u86	Ma'am, one has to take responsibility. If one thinks that this situation is so bad, then one should apply for social mediation. We cannot judge today what the situation is like in the company. They can. If they think it is justified, they should apply for social mediation. That right is there. They have to do the same. Until today, we have not received that question. But if there is, we will do what we need to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic088x.u87	Colleagues, this concludes the question-and-answer session. Madam Minister, thank you for your presence and for having managed the cutting test well.
