ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u1	To date, we have not been approached by Belgian NGOs on the ground, but by FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and as such, the major actor in the agricultural sector in emergency situations. Belgium has developed a partnership with FAO since 1997 to help farmers recover from the consequences of natural disasters, armed conflicts and protracted crises, as well as those affecting the food chain. The organization is currently conducting a global awareness-raising campaign in which our embassies and relevant posts are participating in order to monitor FAO's capacity to provide its expertise and to fulfil its role in supporting States that are key players in the fight. Belgium is committed to rapid, flexible and effective humanitarian aid through flexible funding, including CERF, the United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund (Belgium's contribution in 2019 of EUR 17 million), which played a key role in the response to the locust invasion, as well as the FAO Special Fund for Emergency and Rehabilitation Activities, to which Belgium contributed EUR 4 million in 2020, of which almost half a million was used for the invasion of locusts in the Horn of Africa. This rehabilitation fund (SFERA) ensures an effective response and prevents further spread.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u2	Thank you, Minister. The $17 million for the CERF you talked about was in 2019? [[Oui]] You announced that you would give more to the CERF this year as part of the fight against VOCID. You decided to give priority to supporting United Nations agencies. I imagine it's up to them to coordinate the fight against locusts, VOCID, etc. Thank you, that's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u3	Minister, I tabled this question on 17 April. So she's dated. My question was how Belgium stood with regard to the one-sided peacekeeping force and whether it was not better to call the parties around the raffle. Special Envoy Martin Griffiths has already insisted. Belgium, from the UN Security Council, would insist on humanitarian aid and respect for international humanitarian law. Meanwhile, we have also provided EUR 5 million for the specially created fund, but in total there was only EUR 1.3 billion out of the more than EUR 2 billion needed. Are the funds set up by the UN adequate or are they always too high amounts of money to make it feasible for all countries in these corona times? There are crises in several countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u4	As regards Yemen's peacekeeping force, I can confirm that I immediately welcomed the unilateral announcement of state-fire. Its compliance is essential to allow the country to organise against the epidemic. It is all the more important because it can form a basis for the resumption of the political process, but all parties must respect state-fire. However, that is not the case at the moment. Belgium will therefore continue to call on all parties to respect state-fire and engage constructively with the United Nations Special Envoy, Martin Griffiths. We continue to advocate an inclusive, political solution under the auspices of the UN. In the United Nations Security Council, we establish a relative consensus between the Member States on the Yemeni conflict. On Thursday 16 April, the UN Security Council unanimously supported the state-fire and efforts of Special Envoy Martin Griffiths. In the Security Council, Belgium also continues to advocate respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and access, without restrictions, for humanitarian aid. The citizens, and children in particular, are the first victims of the devastating conflict. In this context, I am pleased that Belgium, as chairman of the working group on the fate of children in an armed conflict, was able to announce on 8 April the unanimous adoption of the conclusions on the situation of children in the armed conflict in Yemen. Our country fully supports the efforts to coordinate the response to COVID under the leadership of the OCHA and the WHO. Belgium participated in the virtual donor conference for the humanitarian crisis in Yemen on 2 June. Yemen remains both the biggest crisis and the largest humanitarian aid operation in the world. The conference was therefore an important signal to continue funding the ongoing UN programmes in the current COVID-19 pandemic with new means to maintain Yemen's health system. On this occasion, Belgium has confirmed that we will increase our participation in the Yemen Humanitarian Fund to EUR 5 million for 2020. In addition, some of Unicef's and World Doctors' programmes will be reoriented for the response to the pandemic. In addition, our country has also allocated an additional contribution of EUR 5 million to ICRC, whose actions in Yemen have proved invaluable to slow down the spread of COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think that Belgium's attitude on this issue was good and appropriate. Humanitarian programmes are rarely completed, usually up to half of them, and that worries me. We must determine our future attitude to this. The needs there are very great, but apparently they are not realistic for the donor countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u6	Minister, the fight against COVID-19 epidemic poses major challenges for societies worldwide. However, care must be taken to ensure that increased attention to the fight against the virus does not lead to a recurrence of other diseases. I read that the Bill Gates Fund, traditionally a major funder of malaria programs, has shifted its resources. In the meantime, the World Health Organisation warns that disruption of the fight against malaria caused by the epidemic could almost double the number of malaria deaths in Africa, to more than 750,000, the highest in 20 years. Access to these medicines is under pressure, health workers are also affected by the measures against the virus. The World Health Organisation advocates a massive scaling-up of vector control campaigns. Do you share World Health Organisation's concern about the impact of the Corona epidemic on the fight against malaria? How will you ensure that the fight against malaria is restored?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u7	Madam President, we fully share the concern of the World Health Organisation about the impact of the coronapandemic on the fight against malaria. This is in danger of becoming a crisis in a crisis. The WHO estimates that in sub-Saharan Africa, where 90% of global malaria cases are found, there is a risk of relapse to the infection rate and mortality rates of 10 years ago and, at worst, even to the 2000 figures. This could lead to hundreds of thousands of victims in Africa alone this year. A recent evaluation by our own Institute of Tropical Medicine in Burkina Faso, DRC, Guinea and Uganda confirms the WHO's analysis. In order to respond, we need to understand the underlying reasons for this potential impact. The symptoms of COVID-19 and malaria are very similar: fever, joint pain, being generally unwell. Public health notices and consultations should therefore be adapted. In addition, people often have fear of going to the hospital and getting infected with corona. Targeted communication is therefore essential. Finally, we also see that in most countries the health services that are already under considerable pressure are being reoriented for the treatment of COOVID-19. Non-urgent medical services are postponed. As far as the fight against malaria is concerned, our country also focuses on supporting and strengthening health systems. Health services must be safe and accessible so that the public has confidence and preserves and consults health services in good time. More specifically, Belgium advocates safeguarding and strengthening existing malaria detection and treatment programmes where necessary. This includes some fairly simple steps: the distribution of networks in the most affected countries, the preventive treatment of pregnant women, especially in those countries where there is a major decline in medical services, and enhanced support for curative treatments. The success of the rapid distribution of networks by 2020, already 140 million so far, illustrates the support of the majority of partner countries and the willingness not to cancel malaria campaigns. In the area of funding, Belgium supports the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which fights AIDS, TB and malaria. By 2020, our contribution will be EUR 15 million. We provide a similar amount for 2021. The Fund has made its funding flexible for the countries concerned in order to accelerate the aforementioned actions. Since the start of the COVID-19 crisis in March 2020, 79 countries have made use of the fund for a total of 129 million dollars. In order to ensure the purchase and distribution of medical equipment in the fight against malaria, the Global Fund has also temporarily opened up the joint purchase programme of the UN to all affected countries with a threatening stock out of medication. Despite these reinforced measures and unseen international coordination, the fight against malaria will need to continue to be pursued more than with due attention. We will monitor this from the Belgian development policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u8	I thank the Minister for his reply. I am glad that the resources in this area have not been reduced. It's okay to follow it up anyway. When a reorientation of development cooperation is needed, priority should be given to health and food security among others. That is the first intervention on this global pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u9	Dear colleague, the organizations that submitted a certification package have indeed made significant efforts. Perceived cumbersomeness largely follows the objective, agreed in consultation with the sector, of making it a more qualitative learning exercise, within an overall accountability framework for organizations. A tick-the-box style check may have been more efficient, but would it have met the objectives of learning and improving evaluation systems? That remains a question. The industry's request was to focus not only on the quality of evaluation reports, but also on the organization's capabilities and processes. This approach required a more in-depth analysis than a choice to review only the quality of the reports. Finally, the choice was made to appoint study offices with a knowledge of the sector of Belgian development cooperation organisations. So far, we have some indications that, despite the heaviness of the exercise, it has contributed to substantial reflections on the improvement plan that will help guide the concrete external evaluation process. The process is still under way. The workshop planned for October would move to a level more focused on a collective learning exchange than on an individual exercise. For the next cycle, it will be planned to lighten the system by focusing on the implementation of improvement plans and the quality of external evaluations, particularly for already certified organizations. In addition, it is planned to revise the manual in order to make the criteria more explicit and to enhance clarity by eliminating, for example, any redundancy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u10	Minister, thank you. This was one of the aspects of the evaluation carried out by the special assessor, which she shared with us in committee. I note that his conclusions and yours are in many identical points. Before I was a Member of Parliament, I was familiar with this mechanism, which seemed particularly cumbersome and binding to me, both for the CNGs who followed it and for the evaluation offices. In fact, it was sometimes necessary to wait a year before experts could be available to carry out the certification. On the other hand, the costs incurred were perhaps disproportionate to the "progress" that could have been achieved through an increased training system. I understand that there has been some reflection to lighten the system and to focus more on improvement programmes. I believe that this approach will indeed be more adapted to the real needs of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u11	Madam President, with regard to your first question, COVID-19 does not have the same impact on men and women. The pandemic exacerbates existing inequalities for women and girls and threatens to hamper human rights achievements. The participation, protection and potential of all women and girls must be at the heart of our efforts to cope with this crisis. These efforts should be gender sensitive and take into account the different effects on detection, diagnosis and access to treatment for all women and men. However, the COOVID-19 pandemic is not just a health issue. It also gives rise to a shock at the socio-economic level, which threatens to delay significantly in achieving the objectives of sustainable development. This certainly includes the objectives of gender equality and empowerment of women and girls. Quite specifically, most carers in families and communities are women. They're directly at risk. Moreover, current trends show that their access to healthcare and health services is decreasing, just as the level of gender-based violence increases. As for your second question, I have read with interest the note drawn up by the Gender and Development Advisory Council. We can support the general orientation of the recommendations, even though it is not evident in the present context to implement them in concrete terms. We are already responding to the demand for more attention to gender-based violence with a call for projects worth EUR 4 million for a specific project on this issue. I will launch this call in the coming weeks. Within the COOVID-19 response, I will also ensure that sexual and reproductive rights are given due attention. In this sense, a few weeks ago, I supported a call for the protection of sexual and reproductive health and rights and the promotion of gender sensitivity in the COVID-19 crisis, together with nearly 40 colleagues from international cooperation and foreign affairs. As far as your third question is concerned, my administration has drawn up a guide to gender integration in response to COOVID-19. This guide covers, inter alia, the analysis of the effects of the pandemic on the SDG from a gender perspective, providing the necessary resources and expertise to allow a gender-conscious COVID-19 response, ensuring the representation of women and girls in decision-making and action planning in response to COVID-19 and the inclusion of specific needs related to gender equality in a human rights-based approach. These basic principles are included in the strategic thematic notes on health, socio-economic policy and human rights, among others. Together they developed the Belgian policy response to COVID-19. I come to your fourth question. Among other donors, Belgium is also active in gender mainstreaming, both within the Global Humanitarian Response Plan and within the Corona Fund. We defend this approach in the preparatory meetings of the Boards of Directors and in donor meetings. As a result, thanks to the support of donors, including Belgium, UN Women is now part of the advisory committee for the response plan. This was not initially foreseen. Belgium shall follow the recommendations and provisions of the DAC, the European Union and the United Nations regarding the OECD DAC gender marking. These authorities have not yet recommended quotas. As you know, the use of gender equality and sexual reproductive health is a right and a spearhead of Belgian development policy. Significant funding is also provided for this every year. As a result of the pandemic, I also asked my administration to specifically include projects that fight against gender-based violence in the framework of COVID-19. As mentioned above, an additional amount of EUR 4 million is earmarked for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u12	Thank you for your specific answers to the various questions. I welcome the fact that there will be an additional fund of EUR 4 million to which the Belgian actors will be able to subscribe, I suspect. I believe that we are pursuing not only an active policy, but also a proactive one, in terms of gender equality in development cooperation. That is what you have included in your policy from the outset. I am still pleased that you put this forward as a priority at the time. This is also linked to the necessary resources. It is therefore a good thing that you take the lead and are included in various advisory groups on the UN Corona Fund. I'd say, "Keep up the good work!" We have to make sure we stay up-to-date. I remember a comment from Sensoa that stated that we were not part of the major donors in the field of sexual and reproductive rights. So we need to keep an eye on that schedule in order to be able to continue to take the lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u13	Minister, I agree with the questions on the expiry of bilateral cooperation programmes. During the current power of attorney, can we write new instruction letters for new cooperation programmes that have been completed? Does that belong to your jurisdiction? Can you allow a renewal procedure to enter into force? After all, it is extremely necessary to restart food and health systems programmes in certain countries, which are under pressure from the COOVID-19 measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u14	Of the 14 partner countries, five countries have been involved since the beginning of last year in the launch of a new portfolio of cooperation on the management contract with Enabel. These are Benin, Burkina Faso, Guinea, Rwanda and Senegal. The contract is expected to be completed until 2023 or mid-2024. For the DRC and Burundi, a new programme has not been launched for the time being, but for the allocation of additional funds to extend the ongoing projects until the end of 2022. In Uganda and Palestine, the cooperation programmes are in a final phase, which expires in 2021. These programmes have been implemented at 85 %. For Mali and Niger, the cooperation programmes will expire mid 2022. I am well aware that the end of government programmes in Uganda and Palestine in 2021 could jeopardize our development cooperation in those countries if action is not taken. The same applies, to a lesser extent, to Mali and Niger, where the programmes end in 2022. A new programme based on a letter of instruction from the Minister for Development Cooperation could only be implemented under a new full-fledged government. The administration of development cooperation is currently preparing a proposal to provide additional resources and extend the programmes in Uganda and Palestine, so that we do not lose our achievements and our expertise. However, it will be sent to a subsequent Minister for Development Cooperation to issue a letter of instruction for a new programme or not. If there is no new government with full powers after the summer, the situation will have to be reviewed. For other countries, our administration, after consultation with Enabel, proposed to reprogram credits that had been blocked or reduced previously, with the aim of providing more support through Enabel in our socio-economic response to the VOCID crisis. I have just taken the decision in principle to release EUR 30 million not yet committed. These are a number of bilateral programme and project commitments in Mali, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, the Palestinian territories, Tanzania and Uganda, strictly within the context of budgetary prudence and responding to the need for a COVID-19 response in the medium term. Moreover, the continuity of government cooperation must be guaranteed in particular. With regard to Enabel's guarantees for these partnerships for 2021 and 2022, these are mainly expenditures that are likely to decrease in 2022. My goal is to maintain the level of Enabel's portfolio during the period of budgetary prudence before considering a commitment to new programs. For example, in 2019, EUR 152 million was committed for new projects while Enabel's expenditure was similar to the above-mentioned amount. In 2020, we are trying to achieve a commitment of EUR 165 million for projects and project extensions, which should correspond to Enabel's expenditure. This will maintain the Agency's portfolio at the same level. In the meantime, I have already accepted the budget for the operational expenditure of Enabel 2020-2021 for an amount of €180 million. The measures I have just described, combined with the implementation of the cooperation programmes already under way, will allow Enabel to have budgetary stability until 2022, as provided for in the current management contract. Finally, as I explained at the end of April, at our last meeting, the European Union's response to the crisis in developing countries follows the Team Europe approach. It mobilises the resources of various European financial institutions, such as the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, by also combining the resources deployed by the Member States in a coordinated European response. Belgium's main objective is the complementarity of the actions carried out in the framework of its governmental cooperation with this approach. In addition, Enabel will carry out projects on behalf of the European Union. The system of third-party contracts provided for in Enabel's law and management contract must reinforce the impact of government cooperation and must complement the objectives of our development policy. The expertise of our cooperation and the image of our country directly benefit the projects implemented by Enabel on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u15	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You have quoted a lot of numbers, which is why I will reread your rested head answer. In any case, it appears from your answer that there is a budgetary vision for Enabel for the next two years. It is at the strategic level that things remain more complicated. I think I remember that during the previous day's business period, the minister's letters of engagement had been drafted. You say that if at the end of the summer we still don't have a government, you could consider engaging the government in day-to-day business on a longer-term strategic vision. Can you confirm that that's what you said?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u16	I'd rather have a government with full powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u17	You're not the only one! It's one thing to have the amounts, it's something else to be able to project with the work of the partners. In my opinion, they are necessarily in a very precarious situation for future programming. I am convinced that a clear and longer-term strategic vision would strengthen our role at European level in the Team Europe scheme and the confidence Europe can have in Enabel. I think that both the partner countries and Enabel, and therefore Belgium in general, have a lot to gain from your commitment. We hope that this will come as soon as possible, with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u18	Mr Minister, I will also have to read the answer, because I have not fully understood exactly what the means are like. You say you're going to extend the programs where possible. You will also use creatively the EUR 30 million that Enabel has not committed to the needs of our partner countries. It is indeed important that you handle the resources that are still available today creatively and that have not yet been used for this year to meet the greatest needs. It is important to ensure this continuity. If there is no government by September, I would urge you to develop new things. I think it is much slower in the developing countries. Maybe there will be no real pandemic, let us hope, but we need to follow up on developments in our partner countries in order to be ready with shifts or new resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u19	Mr De Vriendt, although the ceasefire between Turkey and Russia in the Idlib region of 6 March has brought about a significant reduction in violence in the north-west, needs on the ground have not been reduced. The pressure remains very high. For the sake of the COVID-19 pandemic, humanitarian actors take precautions and rescue plans are re-signed. This will focus on prevention and preparedness, so that existing plans and activities can be continued. The Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund, which is funding Belgium up to EUR 7 million in 2020, is currently developing a specific COOVID-19 plan. The situation at the border is still evolving strongly. The Bab al-Hawa and Bal al-Salam border crossings remain open for humanitarian supplies, although with possible delay, but are closed for individual movements. The same applies to the border crossings between the Idlib region and Northern Aleppo. However, the UN is clear about the lack of humanitarian access to the northwest from Syria itself. The humanitarian actors shall endeavour to prepare themselves as best as possible for the potential further impact of additional restrictions on the border between Turkey and Northwest Syria. Our country also remains committed to the UN Security Council to further strengthen the humanitarian corridors. In this sense, Belgium, together with Germany, has prepared a new resolution last week. Negotiations on that resolution have now begun and are aimed at extending and further strengthening the current resolution, which guarantees the existing humanitarian corridors only until early July. In 2019, more than EUR 25 million in humanitarian aid for the Syrian region was financed by Belgium, including support for the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund amounting to EUR 1.5 million, the Jordan Humanitarian Fund amounting to EUR 1 million, the Iraqi Humanitarian Fund amounting to EUR 4 million and the two humanitarian funds for Syria itself, the Syrian Humanitarian Fund amounting to EUR 7 million and the Turkey Humanitarian Fund for Syria transformed into the Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund amounting to EUR 7 million. In addition to supporting the funds, UNICEF humanitarian projects and programmes amounting to EUR 1 million, the World Food Programme amounting to EUR 1.5 million, UNRWA amounting to EUR 2.3 million and Oxfam amounting to EUR 1.1 million were financed in Syria itself. Within the 2020 financial framework, Belgium decided to mobilise new funds for the Syrian crisis and Belgium contributes to both humanitarian funds for Syria, namely EUR 7 million per fund. The funding of humanitarian funds in Syria in 2020 is therefore a new commitment. The distribution of humanitarian resources takes place every year, including in current cases, on the basis of a periodic assessment by the humanitarian services, based on the global emergency analyses of ICRC, ECHO and OCHA, and not on the basis of continuity. In view of the major needs, it is expected that additional financial commitments for aid to Syria will be made, in addition to the already committed contributions to the humanitarian funds for Syria mentioned above. According to OCHA, several donors contributed to the situation in northwest Syria. $300 million of the $500 million requested is currently committed. The main funding is provided by Germany, the European Commission, Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom and the Syrian Humanitarian Fund, of which Belgium is a major donor. An additional COVID-19 call was recently launched for $31 million. OCHA, in particular the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Syria and his team, are in contact with Syrian organisations on the ground. This is done through the Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund, which works as a platform with local NGOs on the ground in the northwest. The Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund provides humanitarian partners, especially Syrian organisations, with the opportunity to expand and support the delivery of humanitarian aid across land borders and conflict lines. The fund finances projects and activities of local NGOs in line with the Syrian Humanitarian Response Plan. In 2018, 122 projects were implemented by 53 partners in Northwest Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Cross-border humanitarian access and humanitarian corridors are indeed essential and must be enforced at diplomatic level. I understand that our country is actively committed to this. I also note your willingness to provide additional funds by 2020 for the relief of the humanitarian crisis in north-west Syria. That is a good thing. The funds allocated for 2020 are, of course, new, but are in line with the amounts granted last year. That's where extra resources come in. I've taken note of what you're saying. OCHA itself is very clear in the demand for more than 300 million dollars to meet the worst needs in the Idlib region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u21	Since Mrs Depoorter is not logged in, she can ask her questions. 55005301C and 55005302C do not set. Mr Flahaut is also not logged in and can therefore put his question No. 55005362C not set. Debates of the European Parliament Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Maegd's 5506010C has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u22	Minister, the UN has indicated that the number of deaths caused by HIV could double in sub-Saharan Africa if patients' access to treatment is disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic. Indeed, the attention of all national authorities and the international community is, quite rightly, now focused on the fight against VOCID-19. However, this fight cannot make us forget the fight against other diseases and infections, such as, unfortunately, AIDS and STIs. A six-month disruption in access to antiretrovirals could result in more than 500,000 more deaths in this region of the world over a year between 2020 and 2021, adding to the 470,000 deaths recorded in 2018, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) and Onusida. A breakdown in prevention, access to care and treatment campaigns could also reverse the progress made in preventing HIV transmission. Minister, can you provide an update for 2020 on Belgium's bilateral and multilateral budgets for the fight against AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections? In this particular context, and in view of the alarm launched by the United Nations, have you received any requests to mobilize more funds and resources? If so, what answer do you intend to give?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u23	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, on a bilateral level, Belgian Development Cooperation no longer funds projects that only work on HIV/AIDS. The response to HIV/AIDS is integrated into projects on sexual and reproductive health and rights, emancipatory projects, gender equality and decent work. Belgian Development Cooperation continues to support HIV/AIDS activities through an integrated health system. Note that, in this year's strategic note VOCID and health, Belgian Development Cooperation encourages its actors and partners to maintain the availability and quality of essential medical services and products, including for the fight against HIV/AIDS and other STIs. At the multilateral level, Belgian Development Cooperation contributes to the financing of organizations with a special focus on HIV/AIDS, such as the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the World Health Organization and the Global Fund. In 2020, Belgium planned to contribute €3 million to ONUSIDA, €7.6 million to WHO and €15 million to the Global Fund. Belgian Development Cooperation continues to participate in political and strategic dialogues with these organizations, in particular on the impact of VOCID on the fight against HIV/AIDS. Under the SheDecides initiative, Belgium is also making important additional contributions. Thus, the annual contribution to UNFPA core resources has increased from €7 million to €9 million per year, from 2017 to 2020. Two million euros a year were spent in 2018 and 2019 on the UNFPA Supplies thematic fund dedicated to the provision of modern contraceptives in the poorest countries and the strengthening of local supply chain capacity. Finally, EUR 5 million in support of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) programmes were also granted. This support enables IPPF and its partners to continue to work in cooperation partner countries such as Burundi, Burkina Faso, Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda and Lesotho. In the current context, Belgian Development Cooperation has not mobilized more funds or specific resources to combat HIV/AIDS. Complementary funding from existing resources in the budget is envisaged for gender and SRHR (Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u24	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. The sound connection wasn't always good, so I didn't always get it right. I will refer to the written report for further discussion. I heard the minister say that he did not raise additional funds to fight HIV compared to what was originally planned, but I did not hear him on another issue perhaps because of the poor connection. Has the Minister received new requests from the United Nations in this regard or not? I have not heard the answer on this subject. Perhaps this will be an opportunity to take stock later when we have better meeting conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u25	Tijdens het VOCID-19-debat in de commissie van 22 april verklaarde u dat ons land de volgende humanitariane inspanningen zal leveren: "Humanitarian aid is mainly managed through flexible funds from the United Nations and the Red Cross. One of the central funds to which our country is contributing is the Central Emergency and Response Fund (CERF) of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). This fund enables the OCHA to respond to the most urgent needs, in a fast and coordinated way... Last year, Belgium contributed EUR 17 million to this fund. A new contribution of 17 million from our country is planned for 2020. I will therefore prepare, within the limits of the available budgets, a humanitarian contribution of EUR 22 million. As a first step, €5 million will be allocated to CERF and €5 million to the International Federation of the Red Coix. This will bring total humanitarian spending in 2020 to 192 million euros, a record amount ever granted to humanitarian aid by our country."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u26	I can confirm that, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers decided to release additional funding of EUR 5 million each for the CERF, the United Nations crisis fund, and the Red Cross International Fund. In addition, an additional EUR 10 million will be provided for this year. The financing framework is currently being prepared. The exact distribution has not yet been decided, it is determined on the basis of an analysis of the real needs, in consultation with our humanitarian partners. Belgium contributes EUR 8 million annually to the overall resources of UNHCR. In addition, Belgium also finances UNHCR projects and programmes. In 2019, interventions were supported in Chad, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Yemen and Iraq, in support of refugees, IDPs and/or returning. This brought our country's total contribution to UNHCR in 2019 to almost 19 million euros. Belgium has been among the top 20 government donors to UNHCR for years and even among the top 15 for flexible contributions to UNHCR's general resources. The approach to the corona crisis is, of course, closely coordinated at EU level. A Development Cooperation Council was also held today, which discussed further cooperation and coordination under the heading of Team Europe, among other things. In addition, the Heads of Development Cooperation, Development Agencies as well as Development Finance Institutions such as BIO, of the EU Member States regularly come together to coordinate the COOVID-19 response. Humanitarian aid is the subject of ongoing consultations at EU level. For example, the Foreign Minister, together with his French colleague and the relevant EU Commissioner, left for the DRC last night for an EU mission in the context of the fight against COOVID-19. This was largely achieved under Belgian impulse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u28	Minister, there is a global food crisis. The UN World Food Programme calls on donor countries to transfer USD 1.9 billion as soon as possible, which had previously been promised, in order to continue to help civilians in war zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u29	Mr Minister, can you also respond to what was published in De Standaard today about agro-ecology and investment in this area, which could be limited by Belgian development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u30	Madam President, I would like the questions to be no longer read out in the Committee on Finance, which would make matters much easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u31	This committee has a female chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u32	Absolutely, a female chairman and a female prime minister, that's the way things are going. Ladies and gentlemen, food safety is receiving special attention from Belgian Development Cooperation. The strategy for agriculture and food security highlights three areas of intervention: farmers' participation in value chains, good governance and research and innovation aimed at increasing the resilience of rural entrepreneurs. The impact of the VOCID-19 pandemic on food security cannot be underestimated. It is clear that in the short term, we need to focus on acute food needs, especially those of the most vulnerable groups, and ensure that food chains continue to work. At the humanitarian level, we support emergency operations as well as disaster preparedness, rehabilitation and reconstruction to support community resilience. In this context, the privileged partners of Belgium are WFP and FAO. Both organizations have adapted their approach to address the short- and long-term consequences of the spread of the VOCID-19 virus in these measures. WFP relies on its expertise in logistics, market analysis and the creation of economic opportunities for local production, where circumstances permit. FAO provides support to producers to increase food production and income. Belgium has set aside an additional €5 million for WFP and FAO. This additional support is in addition to Belgium's contributions to the global resources of the World Food Programme, 4.8 million euros, and the Immediate Response Account Fund, 5 million euros, which is used in sudden crises. These flexible and multi-annual contributions allow the organisation to adapt to the most urgent needs. During this health crisis period, food aid is obviously a priority for all humanitarian interventions. For example, the World Food Program is the leading organisation in this matter. Other humanitarian partners, NGOs, UN agencies, the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, integrate these needs into their interventions. At the level of bilateral programmes, flexibility at the level of activities is discussed in the ongoing bilateral programmes which work on several implementation paths. I will quote two as an illustration. Adopt ongoing programmes working on value chains in the agri-food sector, in particular by strengthening local processing and storage capacities to avoid food losses and supporting alternative sales mechanisms: e-commerce linking producer and consumer, short circuit. Ensure that nutrition considerations are reflected in sectoral actions. The analysis of possible medium-term reorientation is ongoing. The starting point is that a reorientation should be consistent as far as possible with the existing programmes. Starting up new domains or even new domains takes time and expertise, which is more difficult in these times. In this context, programmes are under way in the areas of agriculture, livestock and rural development in several of our partner countries, including Burundi, Benin, DR Congo, Mali, Niger, Rwanda and Tanzania. Our development agency Enabel is examining, in consultation with our diplomatic posts, what steps can be taken now within these programmes to invest more in local food supply and to adapt some of its activities. Enabel has sufficient flexibility and autonomy to do so. In the medium term, there is also a need to address the weaknesses of the global food system that the VOCID-19 crisis has once again identified. This is in line with the Build Back Better (BBB) approach promoted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Guterres, whom I support. Several consolidated responses to VOCID-19 have been developed within the United Nations system in recent years at the health, humanitarian and socio-economic levels. This is important in the light of a coordinated multilateral approach which Belgium wishes to see implemented. I am pleased that the importance of food security is always recognized in this regard, and we will continue to ensure that our partner organizations pay significant attention to it as a cross-cutting priority in their operations. Belgium therefore supports the multilateral approach to this issue more than ever. We support the comprehensive responses of both the European Union and the United Nations. Moreover, the provision of funds through central resources is more than ever meaningful in this crisis situation. We also find it essential to strengthen the policy coordination of the Committee on Global Food Security (CFS), the world's leading body for food governance, which brings together Member States, civil society, the private sector and especially the people most affected by the food crisis, to discuss a coordinated response. In the long term, it is therefore a question of supporting the transition to a more resilient and, above all, more sustainable agricultural sector and food system. At the moment, a review of the current strategy seems premature. The current strategy must also be able to be implemented over a few years before it can be analysed with a minimum of hindsight. Then, it does not seem appropriate to me to make such a decision at a time of day-to-day business. I should like to say a few things about the article in De Standaard. I regret that the article makes it appear that agro-ecology would be opposed to the sustainable transition that Belgian development cooperation is pursuing in its agricultural priorities. Both fall back on similar basic principles and objectives. As early as 2017 I recognised in policy documents that agro-ecology should be part of the policy. It is clear that the underlying principles are already the guiding principles of policy today. I certainly do not agree with the idea that there should be only a very small part of the budget going there. According to the figures in the study, 61 % of the financing of Belgian development cooperation directly or indirectly supports agro-ecology. In addition, I think that there is a mistake. I have made this point here several times. People will always come back to that Food Security Fund. Apparently, some people are really in love with that separate structure. I do not understand why, except because this fund is being sent by Parliament instead of myself. If we are looking for complementarity, it seems logical to me to place food security in general agricultural policy. I sometimes get the impression that people want to close their eyes to what would be a natural transition. Yes, family self-absorbed agriculture has also existed here, in the Middle Ages. Then the vast majority of people living off agriculture lived in extreme poverty. That is also the situation today in sub-Saharan Africa. Family farming is the best guarantee of sustainable poverty. I wonder why some people are holding on to that. I have never written in my notes that I am a fan of the very large-scale agro-industry. That is absolutely not in my notes. Imagine that family farming would become more productive and produce more on the area available, as happens in many places in the rest of the world. Imagine that one would succeed in producing enough for one's own population. Wouldn't that be a good thing? Wouldn't that make food more available, as we've known here in a transition of so many decades? I will not say that everything is perfect in our way of agriculture, but intensive agriculture has ensured that food is available to people. As a result, the proportion of their budget that people have to spend on food has fallen sharply. Furthermore, people today have access to healthy and very diverse nutrition, with the necessary positive effects on their health. If it is our practice to ensure that local agriculture can become more productive and technological, so that more resources are available for the own market, then what is wrong with that? If these countries were going to export products, what would be wrong with that? I therefore found the article in De Standaard very tendentious and one-sided. I would like to make it clear that I am not in favour of the massive agro-industry as seen, for example, in Latin America on a very large scale. Care must be taken to ensure that farmers are able to generate adequate income. The only positive thing in that article was the reference to Beyond Chocolate, because that is an example of the way we look at it. We argue that profitability is an essential element and that profitability cannot be achieved if there is one party that never makes a profit, namely the local producer. One of Beyond Chocolate's three major goals is to ensure that local agriculture can earn enough. I had hoped that the article would have been more balanced, but that is the way it is. It does offer an opportunity for additional articles that will give me more of my vision of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u33	Mr Minister, obviously we are many in Parliament to come back regularly with questions about food security. We are faced every time with our minister, who clearly has a vision of what the agricultural approach should be. It is clear that this is politically difficult. Thank you for the answers. Nevertheless, what is happening is that beyond a political vision perhaps "liberal" or more ecological...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u34	More scientific perhaps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u35	In fact, scientists, whether at universities or at the United Nations, have been telling us for years that to feed the world, to fight climate change and to fight the collapse of ecosystems, family farming is the answer. We may not read the same sources, but the publications go in that direction. There is broad consensus on these issues at the very level of the United Nations. We continue to believe that reorienting the agricultural approach to agro-ecology and to resilient and sustainable food systems is the solution both at the climate level and at the level of biodiversity or the real fight against hunger. The SES (Special Evaluation Service) has again presented its findings. In his assessment of a device in Benin, I believe, on pineapple cultivation, we see that we choose not to follow the recommendations of the SES and that we continue to boost the international sale of pineapple rather than invest in local food systems. That remains a matter of concern. The crisis of the VOCID-19 reminds us: when we block international markets, we must reinvest in the local system that must be the most suitable for what awaits us in terms of climate and biodiversity. I'm not going to repeat the whole debate now. My colleagues are probably going to move on with other things. You're saying it's too early to review the strategy. At the same time, we are already reviewing it with the D4D (Digital for development) strategy, which is quite recent and which you have put in place under this legislature. It would be interesting to be able to quickly evaluate it even briefly so as to reorient it. Indeed, I believe that the crisis of the VOCID-19 must also prompt us to reconsider the strategy on food security. I understand we're in business and maybe this isn't the best time. I think, however, that these issues will need to be dealt with very quickly with a new government. Madam President, this is the end of my speech. I'm sorry I've been a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that there is a debate. Development cooperation often lacks this, especially in the media. Sometimes it is a good thing to start the debate on this issue, if not, we as Parliaments might lose our attention, which I absolutely do not want. This crisis has made it clear that food security systems in developing countries are relatively weak and fragile. Sometimes they are focused on exports and they even need to import food. That's when people stumble on boundaries. If we do not invest in family farming, there will be no self-sufficiency in food. The question is, where are we? Clearly, we need a tailor-made approach. In some countries we need to invest further in family farming, because the systems cannot be upgraded to a larger scale, too, that is clear. It's hard to generalize this. The challenge for the future of food security is to create a tailor-made and diverse approach, so that we do not think you are in favour of the agro-industry and the Parliament of family, local agriculture. That's a little bottled. The tailor-made approach may need to be clearer and more concrete in the programmes that are being developed, then we will find each other somewhere in the middle. I think Beyond Chocolate is a fantastic project with us. In this direction, we must also go with other sectors. The clean clothes campaign is also something at that level. I also know that the Netherlands works sectorally with such due diligence conventions. I think this is the way to go. The problem is too great to deal with it globally. I support you in the sector-specific approach, which also makes it much more concrete than the general debate on who is for or who is against. The answer seems to me to be somewhere in the middle, with a tailor-made approach per country. I understand that you also provided EUR 5 million extra for the World Food Programme in this food crisis, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u37	Madam President, I agree with the views expressed by my colleagues, but I did not say that the minister had done nothing about it. On the other hand, I think our positions are not antagonistic but rather complementary. In this regard, I am pleased to learn that there is again a parliamentary working group to work on food security and to have a vision complementary to that of the government. Nevertheless, it is true that the fight for food security is based primarily on territorial food systems, which, through their diversity and local roots, are clearly identified and contribute effectively to improving food security on the ground. I therefore believe that helping family farming means helping farmers to conserve their land and purchasing power and to create regulatory stocks for themselves, rather than stocks that will be used ex post by others in the context of abusive speculation on food. I think that in the coming weeks, thanks to the above-mentioned working group and, I hope, to a new government, we will be able to give shape to a new vision, which will also be based on the assessment - remarkable in my view - of the Belgian Food Security Fund. All this takes time, and I think that it will be appropriate in the future to step up family farming, in addition to everything that is already being done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u38	Dear colleague, the indicative programme of cooperation with Burundi for 2010-2013 is still the ongoing programme of governmental cooperation. The political crisis in Burundi has directly affected the evolution of the implementation of our Government's cooperation, which has taken various decisions in recent years, including that of interrupting the preparation of a new programme of cooperation, stopping or suspending several interventions or parts of interventions and redirecting its resources towards direct support for Burundian populations and human rights. These cooperation interventions can be carried out more or less as planned. Burundi faces significant population growth, a very young population, low-performing subsistence agriculture, a high rate of inactivity of the population, anemic economic growth with a poorly developed and poorly diversified private sector and climate and environmental threats. Therefore, in mid-2019, I agreed to a reprogramming of the budgetary resources of EUR 25 million to extend the interventions of the government cooperation under implementation, with a budgetary increase. For example, the extension of five projects in the health, education and rural development sectors will allow cooperation to continue until the end of 2022. The conditions for concluding a new cooperation program can only be decided by a full-fledged federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u39	Mr Minister, we do not plead for a speedy return to normal, especially since the situation of the Burundian population is still very uncertain. It is pertinent on your part to redirect support directly to the people and not to the State, in view of the years that have passed. This transitional period in Belgium will allow us some time to see what the future of this new government will be in Burundi and how we can effectively and appropriately support the Burundian population by 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the sanitary impact, the socio-economic consequences of COOVID-19 are particularly devastating. Last week I saw this myself in a discussion with our representatives of Enabel on the ground. The COVID-19 crisis threatens to reverse decades of progress in the fight against poverty and exacerbate the great inequalities between and within countries. Moreover, a long-term global economic slowdown is also likely to have a negative impact on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. In this context, development policy should also focus on supporting the economic resilience of our partner countries. In this context, BIO has an important role to play. As a small development finance institution, BIO has a specific focus on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries in which it invests directly or indirectly through financial institutions, microfinance institutions, non-bank financial institutions and so-called private equity investment funds. Even more than in normal times, these companies play an important social and economic role in the countries concerned. In the post-corona era, where the restoration of the economic fabric will be the priority concern, their role will still become more important. Local SMEs are now heavily affected by the COOVID-19 crisis and the decline in economic activity. Most of them do not have the necessary reserves or buffers to cover losses and increasingly face acute liquidity problems. Since in these times of economic shrinkage they are difficult to access the regular financial circuit, they need to contact more impact-oriented financiers, such as BIO, who are often their only chance of survival. Indeed, many of these customers have been severely affected by the sanitary crisis and the resulting decline in economic activity. The EUR 20 million additional financial resources foreseen for BIO are separate from the regular resources of BIO. This is a one-off award that is specifically aimed at supporting existing clients of BIO during this crisis period. The additional resources will be fully used to address the liquidity problems of BIO's customers and to help them bridge this difficult period so that they can fully contribute to the recovery after the sanitary crisis. The funds will only go to those customers who were in good financial health on 1 March. Of course, funding will be linked to the same strict social and sustainability conditions as all other investments of BIO. The proposal to increase BIO's resources is part of an overall European approach to dealing with the economic consequences of the crisis. Among other things, the European Commission stresses the importance of the DFIs. Several European Member States, including France, Germany, the Netherlands and Finland, are preparing a decision similar to that of Belgium and intend to update their DFIs with additional funding. When assessing corresponding applications, close coordination with other DFIs in Europe via EDFI is required because the emergency financing of BIO and the other EDFIs should be used efficiently and without overlap. This approach is in line with the priority focus I have placed on the development of local entrepreneurship since the beginning of my mandate as Minister for Development Cooperation. In the same sense, additional funds of at least EUR 2.5 million can be allocated to the Business Partnership Facility, so that additional calls for projects to support small and medium-sized enterprises in these countries can be launched. With regard to the ratio between the resources of code 8......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For additional investments in this time of crisis, BIO provides for both own funds code 8 as well as code 5 resources whose return expectations can be effectively lower and/or higher risks. The additional resources that will be made available to BIO from the resources of Belgian Development Cooperation are Code 5. I do not think that this requirement for the overall functioning of BIO should be revised. BIO invests in private companies and a lower-than-market return would amount to subsidising commercial companies. This would miss the goal of helping to develop local entrepreneurship and significantly undermine the sustainable impact of these companies. Indeed, in 2019, a kind of investment facility was set up to finance projects with a high development impact or a lower return than BIO would normally take on its balance sheet. This facility, which uses code 5 resources, will be used in the response BIO formulates to support its customers through this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I understand that EUR 20 million goes to existing projects. This is reassuring for companies already in the BIO programme in order to cope with the crisis. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u42	I do not think it is the place and the time to have a serious discussion about market conformity of return. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We will follow very closely the assessment of the projects themselves. It is important to now strive for a higher development impact to ensure that in abnormal times the impact of entrepreneurial development is indeed there. The files are all too often rejected for reference to the past, of what should be market conformity. I'm sure we'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. The annual amount spent on BIO will be increased by half. Support for the private sector may in itself have its place in development cooperation policies. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to a number of important international calls to increase resources for structural development cooperation, i.e. in other areas. We do not see any additional resources from Belgium for the time being. I agree with what Mr Crombez has said. I also have the need to look at what criteria are being used and what considerations BIO makes in the decision to allocate funds to certain companies, to certain projects, to certain investments. Minister, Madam President, is there any way to achieve greater transparency as a Member of Parliament? Very often, in part justified, there is protection of confidentiality, because it is a commercial decision. To what extent can we have an insight into the balance that is being made in supporting or not supporting projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u44	It is not a bad idea to invite Mr Zonneveld here, as has already been done. In this way a dialogue can be entered into with him in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u45	This can be planned and then there can be a specific request for the EUR 20 million and its implementation. I will also pass on to the secretariat to focus on the projects and a general explanation at the beginning of a legislative period. Can we talk about this like this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u46	Madam President, you can do that. If Luuk Zonneveld is invited, the question may be passed on immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u47	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u48	Madam President, what scope can we, Members of Parliament, have for real insight into the balancing framework for concrete decisions on support?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u49	We will give you that question in concrete terms. That was the intention of my intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u50	Mr Minister, Mr De Vriendt has just given an introduction. There is an increasing international demand to increase effective resources for development cooperation. I would like to highlight in particular the following two questions from my text. Is Europe very active in organising itself to respond to the demand for more resources for development cooperation? Is the Belgian Government also preparing additional investments, perhaps in line with what the ODI is proposing, namely 0,7% of the planned relays? In your answer to my four questions, I will listen very carefully to the two questions mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u51	Belgium is in favour of the multilateral approach to this crisis. It goes without saying that the nature of the crisis and the amounts needed to cope with this crisis are of such magnitude that it is far beyond our country. We therefore fully support a strong EU commitment based on the principle of leave no one behind. It was also included in the 2030 agenda. This is the guiding principle of our internationally coordinated efforts. No additional budgets were allocated but the funds currently contained in the Budget Act for Development Cooperation. However, existing resources will be used flexibly to provide the necessary support in the fight against COOVID-19. In concrete terms, I will propose for the third and fourth discs a three-pronged policy focus on the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic and its consequences. Firstly, humanitarian: focus on health, preserve and expand on food security. Secondly, human rights: focus on women, girls and children. Thirdly, socio-economic support for the private sector and social protection. For the third disc, these three domains currently provide 33.8 million euros and 34 million euros respectively. BIO's 20 million euros is in there. In terms of means, Belgium's response is, on the whole, focused on: - flexible mobilisation of existing budgetary resources; - the agility of ongoing programmes, which often fall within the autonomy of our partners and cooperation; - political and diplomatic positions to influence the response of the international community and, in particular, multilateral partners. This is of course an issue that goes beyond the only aspect of aid to our partners, since the funds proposed by the European Commission for additional support in the field of humanitarian aid and development are part of a total plan of EUR 750 billion. This proposal provides for €16.6 billion for international challenges. More specifically, it is proposed to allocate EUR 6 billion extra to humanitarian needs and to add EUR 10.6 billion to the new instrument, the Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation Instrument. This latter sum should focus mainly on supporting the necessary investments for socio-economic revival and allow for EUR 70 billion in investment. Moreover, the EUR 16.6 billion is 2.21 per cent of the internal envelope and thus more than what you propose as ideal, in particular the 0.7 per cent of internal EU efforts. Belgium will support this proposal with strong international solidarity. For me, this should also lead to a more assertive role for the EU at global level, including in the field of international development. With regard to our policy on debt forgiveness, our country is essentially guided by the sustainable development objectives. Belgium is committed to helping developing countries achieve sustainable debt sustainability. In concrete terms, therefore, our country will engage in the debate on debt cancellations with open and constructive vision. However, we must make sure that the discussion is linked to certain principles such as transparency, the fight against the impact of COOVID-19 and good governance. We must also avoid that debt cancellation would be used to simply pay off other debts, such as Chinese or private. This can only be done through strong multilateral consultation through the Paris club, but also with China and the Bretton Woods institutions. So this takes time. The Treasury is also currently working on an analysis of the potential impact of debt forgiveness on our country, both directly, through bilateral agreements, and indirectly, through a possible multilateral debt discharge. With regard to the formulation of the post-COVID strategy, the analysis and reorientation of the health component is almost complete. This is the result of a consultation of the services of my administration with Enabel, the civil society platform, Be-cause health, and the Institute of Tropical Medicine. On the socio-economic side, a first project has been drafted. It attempts to identify key challenges related to the impact of VOCID on each sector of Belgian cooperation and the avenues for responses. This is at this stage the result of the work of the thematic experts within my administration. Once the project has gone through the stages of an internal consultation within the administration, it will be discussed more broadly with the diplomatic posts and the Belgian cooperation partners. The idea is to look preferably at the platforms of existing actors. Given the uncertainties about socio-economic impacts, the second strand should be understood as an iterative response that can be nuanced over the months. It goes without saying that the COVID-19 crisis and its impact on our partners will have an important impact on the discussions that are taking place at European level. It will also be reflected in the way we work with our partners, including with a much greater focus on health care in the cooperation programmes. Belgium has traditionally been a strong partner in the development of health systems, and we will certainly continue to emphasise this in our international relations. The new EU-Africa strategy will also have to be revised in this light, but its proper content is still under discussion. The question is whether the EU-Africa Summit will be able to take place in the autumn, just because of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u52	Minister, I can only add one element to your answer. With regard to aid for development cooperation, I would like to turn my back on debt relief, which is always very difficult, and which is then discussed with civil society and in articles. All I wanted to add to your answer is to consider whether Belgium can express a commitment that will link part of its relance to development cooperation. This makes all these difficult discussions about the sum totals and the figures much easier. They are not necessary, because then there is a firm commitment to link our own relance, which is not linked to a fixed amount, but which is in full development, to development cooperation. I suggest that you make that commitment, Minister, as the ODI suggested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u53	Mr Minister, as I understand it, apart from the additional €22 million for humanitarian aid and debt relief, no additional funding is foreseen for 2020. Instead, you rely on flexibility and multilateral support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u54	No additional amount to what is foreseen in the 2020 budget is actually envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic196x.u55	Everyone recognizes the added value of Belgian cooperation in terms of flexibility and multilateral orientation, with clear support for a European strategy, not to mention the first initiatives you have taken for debt relief. However, it seems to me that it would have been appropriate to go scratching the drawer bottoms of this legislature and try to make an additional financial gesture rather than just focus on strategies. Belgium is still one of the richest countries on the planet. After a major decrease in the amounts allocated to Belgian cooperation in recent years to reach only 0.42% of gross national income in 2019, I think it was the time to send a strong signal. Mr De Croo, you would have done well if you had given a little throttle to finish your legislature in beauty! In any event, I will come back to this issue because it is good to support multilateral dynamics, but we must also be able to get our hands on the portfolio. Belgium has a leadership role to play in this area.
