ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u1	Madam President, Minister, Europe Hospitals in Brussels are a collaboration between the KUL and the UCL. I have referred in the past to linguistic parity. That's a stick horse from our party. Language parity must certainly be guaranteed. This is one of the foundations on which Europe's hospitals are based. There are signs that the necessary bilingualism would not be guaranteed in practice. We have also had this discussion, among other things, about Brussels' cooperation with the guards. Here too it is said that bilingualism cannot be guaranteed by a lack of Flemish candidates. Apparently, negotiations are currently taking place between French-speaking doctors of the Europe Hospitals and a number of French-speaking hospitals in the context of possible networking. Our party fears that this will not benefit language parity at all. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Are you aware of this problem and the discussions that are taking place today in connection with networking? In what way will you act against the existing lack of bilingualism? What measures are you taking in relation to this possible networking? Are you involved in those conversations? Are you already sending out a signal that bilingualism must be guaranteed? Do you know what's going on with these negotiations? Will this effectively lead to a network and will it be recognised? How will you ensure that bilingualism is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, like most Brussels hospitals, Europe Hospitals are bi-Community hospitals. As a result, hospital services should in principle be bilingual. As far as hospital policy is concerned, the federal level has only the powers assigned to it. The bi-communal status and the corresponding bi-lingualism of the Brussels hospitals are not covered by my control policy. The Joint Community Committee shall have the power to do so. The recognition of networks between hospitals is a matter for the Länder. It is proposed to allow the approval of the networks to be carried out through a decision of recognition of the Land governments concerned. The possible networking between Europe Hospitals and other bi-Community hospitals in the Brussels-Capital Region will therefore not be assessed by me either, but by the Joint Community Committee. In that context, therefore, I do not have any authority to monitor language matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I wonder if you could take that up with your fellow ministers, for example during one of your regular consultations, so that they also have some attention. We will certainly do the same, because I think you can agree that it is important that patients can be cared for in their own language. We have talked about this many times in this committee. We also have a legislative proposal that states that those who provide care here and wish to pursue the care profession must master the language of the region of those patients. Since you are also responsible for hospitals and care for patients as an overarching minister, I think you can give at least a signal, inter alia in the case of discussions with your colleagues. The Länder and the Joint Community Commission have a shared competence in this regard. Through the working groups with the different governments, you can send out the signal that you consider this important, as do we.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u4	Mrs. Van Camp, allow me to take away a misunderstanding. I'm not a prime minister. I am one of the ministers; the powers are divided. There's no hierarchy. The fact that I have some powers at the federal level does not mean that I am an overarching minister. As regards the use of languages, therefore, I cannot impose or enforce anything. You are free to have a different view and you can indeed table a legislative proposal on that. However, I am not an overarching minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u5	Madam Minister, I referred in particular to your role in, among other things, the Inter-Ministerial Conferences, where you do have a consultation platform. As a minister responsible for patient care and for hospitals, you can argue that language parity, bilingualism, should be guaranteed in Europe Hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u6	Madam President, Minister, since November 2016, self-tests are available in pharmacies at a price of about 30 euros. These self-tests allow for self-testing, at home or elsewhere, without the help of a health professional. From a little blood, self-test reveals in a few minutes whether or not the specific antibodies produced by the body in case of HIV infection or in case of colon cancer. According to a survey conducted by Test-Achats, if these tests remain useful and allow, for socially disturbing diseases such as sexually transmitted diseases, to check in complete discretion what one does not dare say to a doctor or nurse, however, patients would all too often find themselves alone and without explanation. According to the survey, seven out of ten HIV or colon cancer tests are sold without asking the patient all the relevant questions or giving him or her sufficient specific information on how the test should be performed or interpreted. This, of course, poses a problem, particularly for the consumer association, which believes that pharmacists are primarily health care providers rather than sellers. In doing so, both information and advice should be their priority. Minister, have you been aware of the investigation conducted by Test-Achats? What is your opinion on this? Are you planning to meet or have you met with representatives of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) and the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA) to discuss this issue? Do you already have leads so that patients can benefit from clear and accurate information when buying these self-tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u7	Madam President, Mr Prévot, I have indeed read the Test-Achats investigation into the sales by pharmacists of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, and in particular self-tests. All IVD auto-tests marketed in the Member States of the European Union must comply with European Directive 98/79 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. This Directive describes, inter alia, the essential requirements they must meet in order to be placed on the market. Additional requirements are defined for self-tests to ensure that all users can use and understand the test and its result. Thus, the information and instructions provided by the manufacturer must also be understandable to the user and easy to apply, the self-test must be easy to use, and the risk of misuse and misinterpretation of the results by the user must be minimized, as the self-test is not safe. To the extent possible, self-tests should be equipped with a control method allowing the user to check that the product is working properly. It should be added that the requirements for the user manual for this type of test are more stringent than for another test. In particular, this manual should include information on the possibility of "false negative" and "false positive" outcomes, the measures to be taken in the event of a positive, negative or imprecise result. Similarly, the package leaflet should state that the user cannot make any medical decisions without first consulting his or her doctor. The conformity of the self-test shall be assessed by an independent notified body. It is only after that body has determined that the self-test complies with the provisions of the in vitro diagnostic directive that it issues a certificate of conformity and that the self-test can therefore be marketed. I recall that this type of test is not only purchased in pharmacy but is also available in large area or online. I do not intend to meet with the Association Pharmaceutique Belge specifically to discuss the problem raised, but in the context of the delivery of health products, the pharmacist, as a health professional, has a role of providing health advice to the patient. I therefore hope that this study will be an opportunity for the PDB to encourage its members to take on more of this role as health advisor when they issue such tests. With regard to your last question, you will have understood that the directive sets out further essential requirements for these self-tests, so that patients receive the necessary information and are able to understand the results provided. If this information provided by the manufacturer is clear and understandable, we cannot demand more than is required by the European Directive. I am forwarding your question and my answer to the PDB for information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the directive is a framework and already contains a whole series of elements. It is also true that these self-tests can be purchased on the internet or on a large surface and there the information is not delivered. It is certain that when these self-tests are purchased in pharmacy, it is obviously expected that the pharmacist or pharmacist will deliver a real added value, particularly in terms of information. They're health professionals. In any case, this seems essential, especially when we know the sensitivity of the results that might appear when the person is alone in his or her home or elsewhere and he or she is taking this test. I also thank you in a proactive way for relaying my question and your answer to the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association. It is not pointless to raise her awareness again. If she could pass the message on to her followers, it would be a good thing in terms of prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u9	Minister, in Belgium, about 350 people are suffering from Gitelman syndrome, a rare kidney genetic disease. This disease is not visible, but its symptoms and consequences are difficult to live for the sick: muscle cramps, dizziness, fatigue, lack of muscle tone, etc. This disease is not recognized by INAMI and treatment is based on important daily potassium supplements. A treatment therefore exists and bears the name Kaleorid. For several years, patients have struggled to obtain them in Belgium. Recently, France, which so far supplied Belgian pharmacies via drug wholesalers, decided that Kaleorid would no longer be sold in Belgium because of abuse. From now on, they have to go to France with a prescription from a Belgian doctor to obtain it. The journeys, for the sick, have thus become almost weekly and painful because the French pharmacies do not want to give large quantities that would allow them to make some stock. For some patients, stock shortage is already current. The wish of people with this syndrome is to obtain, again, delivery in Belgian pharmacies. They would also like, in the future, the disease to be finally officially recognised by INAMI and that its treatment, which costs between 100 and 500 euros per month, be reimbursed as is already the case in France. Minister, what about Kaleorid treatment in our country? Has a refund already been considered? Is there any treatment other than Kaleorid for Belgian patients with this syndrome? Are any measures envisaged to prevent these patients from having to travel to France to get the treatment they need?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u10	Minister, I will not repeat the history of Gitelman's syndrome disease. I would simply add that it is in order to avoid serious heart problems that patients should compensate by taking very strong potassium supplements. And, to avoid ulcers and diarrhea, prolonged-release potassium chloride is recommended. In this context, only one drug exists and is really effective: Kaleorid. This medicine is distributed by the Danish LEO Pharma laboratories, recently taken over by the Swedish firm Karo Pharma. It is not distributed in Belgium, but in France. Since a change in French legislation, this medicine has been prescribed as a prescription requiring patients to move around. If they cannot go to France, they must be content with much less suitable medicines, if not at all adapted. How is it that this medicine cannot be directly available in Belgium, especially as it is necessary for other patients with other pathologies? I recently learned that Karo Pharma wanted to distribute the medicine in Belgium. Have you been contacted about this through INAMI?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u11	Colleagues, INAMI does not recognize any of these diseases. On the other hand, patients have access to all the insured preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic benefits that are justified to treat their condition. In Belgium, the legislation provides that it is the firms which place the proprietary medicinal products on the market and introduce refund claims files in order to obtain the refund. Moreover, according to the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS), this specialty does not appear to be registered in Belgium. This means that the firm never requested or entered a file. With regard to the Kaleorid specialty, which you are talking about, no refund application file has ever been submitted to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products (CRM) by the firm in charge. In addition, another speciality with potassium chloride is registered in Belgium. This is Steropotassium, which occurs as oral liquid unidosis (ten times one gram in 20 millilitres). This specialty is temporarily unavailable. The AFMPS is taking the necessary steps to solve this problem. I would ask the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products to contact the firm responsible for marketing the Steropotassium in order to examine the extent to which the firm could introduce a dossier, which requests reimbursement, to the CRM in the context of this specific indication, of which there are not many patients but for which this reimbursement could be important. Perhaps they did not submit an application for reimbursement, thinking that there was another solution. However, in the face of the challenges now, it would be useful to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u12	Minister, thank you for taking full account of the difficulties faced by patients with Gitelman's syndrome. I know a person who suffers from it. Besides, she's the one who suggested I ask you questions. Indeed, for several months, it has increased the number of return trips between Belgium and France. However, as the latter country fears the abuse and overdose of medicines, this person receives only very small amounts of medicines. In any case, I take it from your answer that you are going to ask to contact the firms responsible with the aim of introducing a file for a possible refund. In my view, it would be a kind of relief for patients with this syndrome. Of course, we are talking about 350 cases in Belgium – an epiphenomenon – but it is essential for these people; especially since, on the Belgian market, substitute medicines are no longer available at the moment. So I hope that your willingness to raise awareness among pharmaceutical companies can lead to a satisfactory response for patients with Gitelman's syndrome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for your very practical answer. I hope that she will find an echo among the patients who, despite their modest numbers, are all in a difficult situation. In addition, the person I know who suffers from this syndrome is very young and is severely disabled in his or her daily life. I imagine that if Karo Pharma comes to contact you, you'll listen carefully to this refund request. For its part, AFMPS is trying to undertake everything in order to make the steroid available to these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u14	Minister, according to figures from the Belgian Dental Medicine Society, the shortage of dentists is problematic in several Walloon provinces. The figures are particularly challenging because the differences between the density of dentists in the city and in the countryside are widening. Indeed, they are twice as numerous in rural areas as in large cities. If the number of students trained is sufficient, what is problematic is where they will settle once they graduate. Young dentists are increasingly leaving rural areas. Among the most problematic regions, Mons and Mouscron are at the top of the list. For example, a dentist is available for 700 patients in Walloon Brabant versus one for 2,300 in the city of Mouscron. Minister, do you confirm the numbers of the Dentaire Medical Society? Is the situation similar in Flanders and Brussels? Can you give us figures for these two regions? What initiatives could be envisaged to encourage young graduates to move to the currently neglected rural areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u15	Minister, it's not good to have a toothbite if you live in the Mons-Borinage area. The latest figures published by the Dentaire Medical Society confirm the situation experienced by many patients: there are not enough dentists in rural areas. In the province of Hainaut, there are four practitioners per 10,000 inhabitants. In the Mons district, this figure falls to 3.6 per 10,000 inhabitants. If you want to get an appointment with your dentist in these communes, it is necessary to arm yourself with patience. This situation is all the more paradoxical as the number of dentists continues to rise at national level. The problem lies, as indicated by the Dental Medicine Society, in the very poor geographical distribution. In some areas, there are far too many dentists, for example in the Brussels Region and Walloon Brabant. In more rural areas, especially Mons-Borinage and Mouscron, there are great difficulties in finding a dentist. In the face of this situation, can actions be envisaged? Have you identified any avenues for reflection? What are the reasons for this poor distribution of dentists in our territory? What avenues could you propose to encourage future dentists to implant in rural areas such as the Mons region and Borinage? Could a system of premiums or interest-free loans be introduced for young people who settle in areas of shortage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u16	The figures available to the Dentaire Medical Society are those of the Planning Commission and are the same as those in our possession. The latest report on dentists in the labour market, covering the years 2004 to 2016, has been available on the FPS Public Health website since September 2019. It contains a description of the professional activity of dentists in Belgium. This activity is detailed for the various professional titles at the national, regional, community and provincial levels. In the opinion of the Planning Commission for the years 2018 to 2020, members already drew attention to this problem of territorial distribution of practitioners. In Section 6 "Territorial distribution and density" of the dentist's report, the map of the Belgian labour market visually expresses this non-homogeneous distribution by borough. The tables contain the figures. Since the sixth reform of the State, the federal power has retained the power to determine national quotas, as is the case for doctors, but it is up to the Communities to set subquotas for dentists and dentists who are specialists among dentists in each Community. The work of the Planning Commission details all the data in order to be useful to the different levels of power involved in health. Moreover, these levels of authority are also represented on the Planning Commission. For example, incentives such as Impulseo could be set up at regional level for young dentists, and incentives could be granted to dentists who move to areas where density is insufficient. This should be considered at the regional level, since this matter was transferred two years ago. The publication of the report "Dentists on the labour market" is only the first step in the cycle of work of the Planning Commission. Its members are currently working on the development of new scenarios. When all this work is completed, the Commission will define new quotas for future years. That said, this is not a question of quotas, because they are often not filled. Rather, it is the lack of attractiveness of a profession for young people. The difficulty of studies must also be taken into account, because not only must we be intelligent, but we must also have some skills. Mr. Prévot, I will provide you with the list of websites that you can consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It does require intelligence and skills, but it is true that it is difficult – and you have confirmed the numbers – to find dentists in certain regions, at least within a reasonable time. It would obviously be necessary to work at different levels because the problem is multifactorial. I understand that this falls within the competence of the Regions, but it could be seen whether an Impulseo-type scheme could not be proposed to encourage young graduates to move to rural areas or less well provided as dentists. At the end of your answer, you talked about quotas. We will wait for the assessment, but, as you said at the outset, quotas are not a major problem in this matter. The problem lies in the poor distribution between rural and urban areas, with much more affected areas including Mons-Borinage and Mouscron.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u18	I understand you're sending the ball back to the Regions. Have you contacted them to suggest initiatives at this level? We do have relays in the Walloon Region and we will talk to them about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u19	New ministers have been given this competence. I've already had contact with two of them. Mrs. Morreale also asked me for an appointment. We will certainly address this subject, but I do not know whether it is in the regional agreement. In any case, it may have a majority to take the necessary initiatives for the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u20	Madam President, we absolutely need emergency doctors. Every hospital begs for it. That is why I would also like to draw your attention to a study by Professor and Emergency Doctor Francis Somville, which shows that 75% of emergency doctors experience more than one traumatic event over a period of 6 months. The percentages of emergency doctors suffering from problems are therefore dramatic: 19.8 % suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome, 44.7 % with anxiety disorder and 42.1 % with depression. It is therefore not surprising that the number of burn-outs in emergency doctors has increased enormously in recent years. In 2018-2019 it appeared that as many as 61.1 % of emergency doctors have to do with a burn-out. How did this happen? Emergency doctors experience unconscious aggression from the patient during an intervention, such as epilepsy or coma awakening, or consciously, in alcohol or drug addiction. Emergency doctors also come to the scene for the police, which sometimes puts them in a dangerous situation. There is also a changing social image, in which the doctor has lost respect. He's not being put on a pedestal anymore, he shouldn't be, but there's got to be respect. Dr. Somville describes it very clearly in his research: "In the field, emergency doctors are cannon meat and that without bulletproof vest, but we are aid workers." In addition to a number of findings, Somville also proposes a number of working points. He suggested that the national number of ARTS IN NEED should make an additional differentiation for "sickness doctors" because the need is higher. He also looks at the government to set up a specific body where emergency doctors can go after they have suffered trauma. Finally, he called for awareness-raising or awareness-raising campaigns. It may perhaps be an inspiring example, Madam Minister: SNCB has already carried out a lot of awareness campaigns on aggression against train drivers, including a social problem, with varying degrees of success. What measures are already in place to accompany emergency doctors after traumatic intervention? Where can they go? Are you thinking, as requested by Dr. Somville, of setting up an organ that supports these doctors to process their trauma complications and to reduce the chances of burn-out? How about the slope to expand and specify the free number of ARTS IN NEED for emergency doctors? Bearing in mind the example of SNCB, how would you like to launch an awareness campaign to highlight aggression against emergency doctors and to reduce even better the ultimate goal, hopefully?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u21	Madam President, aggression against aid workers is not acceptable. It is then about aid workers in general, because whether it is a bus driver, someone at SNCB, a nurse, a doctor or a midwife, it is not acceptable at all. We must make that clear, and we have already done so in various campaigns. Emergency doctors are working on a team of health care professionals. They're rarely alone. Together with other hospital staff, they are confronted with traumatic interventions. In the rush, a lot of people are upset. It may also happen that the family is upset. Rare is that out of joy, often out of anger, frustration and disbelief, and that can indeed turn into violence. Emergency doctors can use the support provided by the hospitals for their staff. The first care after a traumatic event is always the shelter that can be organized within the team itself, say a time-out where it is discussed and it can be given a place. If that is not enough, they, like all employees, can, through the employer, call on the assistance of the occupational health service through the hospital service in this case. They can also, like all aid workers, use the different national platforms available and their own colleagues-doctors for support. For doctors, the ARTS IN NEED platform exists, a platform supported by the Order of Doctors. This is not only open to emergency doctors, but to all doctors; therefore it is also called ARTS IN NEED. In this respect, the situation of emergency doctors is not fundamentally different from, for example, general practitioners and other doctors. There are therefore no plans to set up a specific platform for emergency doctors. Many campaigns have already been carried out and are ongoing to highlight aggression towards aid workers and to say that aggression is unacceptable. There are no plans to set up a specific campaign for emergency doctors. You can ask my successor if you like. I'm not allowed to initiate any new initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u22	Madam Minister, in order to replicate the latter, you can always ask the Council of Ministers for a derogation for expenditure on campaigns. The first thing you have said is also the most important and I believe that we all support it. Aggression is not acceptable, in general, whether it is directed at aid workers, bus drivers or train drivers. Society and we as representatives of society must take a stand against aggression. Aggression is not acceptable, aggression is not acceptable. There are specific problems in this respect with the emergency doctors. You know, better than I do, the situation in many hospitals, where there are two emergency doctors. If necessary, one emergency doctor will ride with the MUG and the other emergency doctor will continue to work alone in the hospital. We should consider whether special measures can be taken in this respect. I will not fail to question your successor or successor, perhaps you yourself will be questioned about this and ask for action in the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u23	Madam Minister, according to a study by the Christian Mutuality which drew a comparison between all Belgian hospitals, unreimbursed hospital costs continue to rise without any real justification. We're talking about a 6% increase in 2018. All operations, and in hospitals across the country, the cost of interventions can vary enormously. For example, more than EUR 100 million is paid by patients themselves or by their supplementary insurance, if they are lucky enough to have one. According to the study, some hospitals carry out illegal billings in a double or common room. For some procedures, such as breast reduction, these may be almost as expensive as in the single room. However, since 2015, it is forbidden to charge extras in these rooms. For Christian Mutuality, in order to avoid such problems, a pre-hospital estimate would have to be made mandatory in order for the patient to be able to make an informed choice. In its recommendations, it also proposes simply to abolish these additional fees so that the money saved (nearly 600 million per year) is returned to the compulsory health insurance funds. Minister, have you been able to read the results of the Christian Mutuality survey of non-refundable hospital expenses? How do you explain the huge price difference for the same procedure from one hospital to another? What is your opinion on this? In your opinion, how can we ensure that the 2015 law prohibiting the charging of supplements in double or common rooms is respected by hospitals? Do you agree with the recommendations of Christian Mutuality? Is it not simply time to refinance hospitals properly and to make them benefit from a stable multi-annual budget? Don't you fear that the policy will not change, we are moving towards a privatisation of health care and a two-tiered medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u24	Needless to say, the increase in patient costs poses a threat to access to care, especially for the more vulnerable people in our society. Hospital funding is what is called a wicked problem. Everyone is convinced that things must change, but no one clearly sees how to proceed. Some people think they can easily solve this complex problem of hospital funding, unfortunately this is not the case. I would even say that the simplistic solutions proposed here would risk aggravating the problem. Reforming hospital funding requires a step-by-step approach, as well as intensive consultation. In the last legislature, we have not only conducted a preparatory study, but we have also taken some major and very concrete steps. We have taken steps to eliminate differences between hospitals and have decided to re-finance low variability care for 57 frequent patient groups. The same fees are attested for a single patient, regardless of the type of hospital or the Region in which it is located. Before, there was a factor multiplied by four between some hospitals. That means it was worse in some hospitals than it is now. Since the start was linked in 2019, the first impact will not be visible, as we only started on January 1st with this barometer. It'll be visible in the next hospital barometer. Soon, the amount will cover much more than the fees, which it is for the time being. This type of fee will be extended to include implants, medicines, stays, etc. This study is being examined in the Public Health FPS. We are busy doing simulations that take into account the complexity of hospital funding. It is a considerable amount of work that is under way. Other measures are aimed at reducing fee supplements. This subject is not simple either, and you know it. Some are aimed at the total elimination of double and multiple room supplements as well as for day hospitalizations. The medico-mut was asked to make a constructive proposal for the future in consultation with the hospital sector. Mutualities are also involved. The proposal cannot simply consist of applying a freeze, because it would only perpetuate the differences between hospitals. Although the fact that mutualities contribute to denouncing the problem is a good thing, it is important that they go further than that in the context of their mission of defending members. They must hold hospitals to account for certain invoiced items. When you receive an invoice and wonder about its particularly high price, it is up to mutuality to be able to carry out the checks. And I always say you have to talk to her mutuality before you pay. If amounts are found to have been unduly collected, mutual funds will have to claim reimbursement. There is a real need to empower patients and inform them that mutualities are at their disposal, in particular to review their bills. Some mutualities have already published the number of invoices they have processed and the amount of which has been reduced, because they included certain benefits that were not provided to the patient or were too high, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I think we do agree on the first problem: the lack of funding for hospitals, which obviously contributed to this explosion of non-reimbursable hospital costs and fee supplements as well. Even if I had not directly addressed this subject, it is very complicated for a patient who returns today to the hospital to know what sauce he is going to eat, and how much it will ultimately cost him. I agree with you on certain points, particularly the importance of the mutual sector, which is there to accompany its affiliates, in order to be able to provide the best answers to their questions. In this and other sectors, transparency seems to me to be essential. It is not normal for a patient who returns to the hospital today not to know how much he will have to pay at the end of the race. When I read the study, I felt that a series of measures were in the right direction. I quote, for example, the mandatory completion of a quotation. You approached her. I am also thinking of the proposal to simply abolish the additional fees so that this saved money can be transferred to the compulsory health insurance funds. We were still talking about 600 million euros a year. It seems to me that this trail should not be ruled out of the back of the hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u26	Mrs Gijbles tells us that she will join us as soon as she can because she is being detained for the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u27	Madam Secretary, if it is right for you, I will integrate Mr Verduyckt's question into my question. We have already discussed privacy in e-files in plenary. That's an important topic. You know that the Flemish Patient Platform already received several complaints about nexuzhealth, a specific system used in the framework of electronic patient files developed by the KU Leuven and used by a large number of hospitals, especially in the Flemish part of the country. Meanwhile, half the hospitals are working on this. The nexuzhealth system would violate privacy because patients are not asked to have access to medical personal data and because patients often do not know that their data is being shared. You rightly said in the plenary a few weeks ago that an infringement of electronic medical records cannot happen. At the time, you said in harsh terms that we should not and should not be able to do so. Through the electronic patient file one can look at files from Bruges to Maasmechelen, just to take that example. Patients may also consult their files via mynexuz, but may not have data deleted, even though some data are superfluous or misleading and patients often have the demand to at least correct them. Let there be no misunderstanding: it is good that medical information can be shared across different hospitals, after all, that can save lives and is cost-saving, but one must of course be careful why certain medical or personal information is shared or viewed by third parties. The essence must always be that it concerns medical personal data, in function of the quality of care provision. For example, it should not be a means of creating a kind of blacklist, for example on information relating to the payment of previous invoices in a particular hospital. Together with Mr Verduyckt, I would like to ask you the following questions, Madam Secretary. Has there been any contact and have you asked nexuzhealth for an explanation? Will they take into account the concerns of the Patient Platform? Are adjustments to the system envisaged to correct the errors? Have there been any contacts with the privacy committee, which also has a role to play in this matter and will prepare an opinion, or with the Data Protection Authority, as you yourself announced in plenary? Have any complaints been received by the Data Protection Authority? Nexuzhealth is a system used in the Flemish part of the country. Do you know which systems are used in the other hospitals? Do you have any idea whether these systems are better secured or functioning? Mr Verduyckt also had the question of whether, in your view, legislative work is still needed. If so, do you prepare it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u28	Mrs De Block, I have tabled my question in response to the scandal we have already discussed in plenary. Doctors of insurance companies not only looked at files, but also manipulated them, so that the insurance would have to pay less. That caused a lot of questions about insurance and the doctors. For example, the Flemish Patients' Forum argues for a more stringent line of separation between treating doctors and doctors working for insurance. The debate on trust in the eHealth system also comes into play, because it is of course a good thing to exchange data, but it was promised at the time of entry into force that patients' data would only be consulted by treating doctors. It is now clear that infringements have been committed. Do you support the Flemish Patient Forum's demand to reopen those infamous files? Is there anything you can do as a minister for that? Is there going to be a tighter dividing line between experts and treating doctors? Are you thinking of making that dividing line more concrete? Have you consulted the Minister of Justice on these illegal practices in the insurance sector? Do you know which insurance companies they're talking about? Have any sanctions been taken against these companies? Then there is the discussion that Mr Bertels raises about the system of nexuzhealth and the complaints about the violation of privacy. In that respect, I agree with his questions. You also indicated that you had a meeting with the Data Protection Authority on this matter. Can you give us an update on that? One idea that is going around is that patients would be informed as soon as a doctor asks for access to their file, by means of an electronic notification. What do you think of this idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u29	Mr Verduyckt being absent, his question No 55003432C is considered to be irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that everyone understands that our healthcare processes benefit from good digital support. I think that citizens' comments on how and with whom their data is shared are a positive development. The complaint at the courthouse came from a woman who had seen through the Personal Health Viewer that an insurance doctor, who used to be her doctor, had looked into her file, which is impossible at all. That's a breach. After all, he no longer had a therapeutic relationship with her. Once the treatment's over, that relationship's over. There's a deadline on that. Such comments are certainly a concern. The doctor involved has broken the law. Have I been in contact with the Minister of Justice about this? The doctor has committed an infringement and it is up to the court to prosecute. There is the separation of powers. I assume the Minister of Justice is reading a few things. In any case, neither he nor I can play an active role in the matter, in which a lady, rightly, has gone to court to charge the facts. I have already warned hospitals and health providers that proper compliance with a regulatory framework is essential if we are to maintain citizens' confidence. That framework is there and it must be respected. They need to know what they're doing. The structures and safety measures are designed in such a way that the patient himself has control over what happens to his data and can see it at any time. That is how the case referred to came to light. The measures taken in relation to data exchange include, on the one hand, technical solutions such as secure identification and access management, the use of a login and time marking of all actions, and end-to-end encrypted data storage and transport. On the other hand, data management mechanisms have also been developed. This concerns the informed consent to data exchange in the context of the continuity of care. The opposite is also true, namely that data should never be exchanged. Please note, the data is kept by the caregivers to document everything correctly. However, the exchange requires informed consent. This has been strongly addressed by the Quality Act. We need to know what we are consenting to and we must not take advantage of it. As regards the management of the therapeutic relationship, only care providers who have a relationship with the patient can access the patient's data if the patient has given an informed consent. In the case described, the insurance doctor no longer had a therapeutic relationship with the patient, for years. In the meantime, he'd even changed jobs, so he was in violation. The access matrix shall determine the type of care providers that can access which types of data and which electronic actions may be carried out. For example, a doctor is allowed to prescribe medication, while a physicist is not allowed to do so. There is also the principle of the circle of trust. The ICT solutions chosen by healthcare organisations must meet previously listed criteria and safety requirements and GDPR obligations. It's done through an honorary statement. It is the patient who determines who is in his circle or trust and no one else, while it is up to the hospitals to set up a circle or trust, which naturally complies with the regulatory framework, to apply all regulations correctly and to monitor their ICT systems continuously. It is also the responsibility of the hospital to ensure that the systems purchased and used by EPD suppliers and ICT companies comply with all the aforementioned regulations. In this respect, many hospitals will be confident that the declaration on the honour of the supplier actually implies compliance with the regulatory framework. They'll have to check it out. If there are any complaints, they should ask their supplier to modify the software. If the cases are not correct, it is clear that a complaint can be lodged through the Data Protection Authority. As regards compliance, several governance mechanisms have also been established. The participation in the Sectoral Information Security Committee and the information security consultation is mandatory for hospitals. Because the ICT world and healthcare are changing at a very fast pace, we took a number of additional actions last year. We are already on our third eHealth plan in a legislative period. That can count. We started in 2014 with an adaptation of the plan, which was only half-finished. Then we made a new plan for two years. In 2019 I already saw the mood. I thought it would be better if a new minister were not appointed immediately, to draw up a two-year plan now. The 2019-2021 plan includes a specific cluster of "fundaments" with projects, to review and update all of our basic principles as mentioned earlier, if necessary. That work is already in progress. The Quality Act of April 2019 contains important Articles 36 and 37 which deal with medical data in greater depth. This has provoked very large discussions here, including with Mrs Fonck, who has been fully involved in this. Rightly so, because that is very important. It was awesome, I must say. Those articles were thoroughly reviewed and discussed with the Data Protection Authority, to which we should always seek an opinion on such matters. It follows from all these arguments that privacy legislation, supplemented by all eHealth components, must indeed be respected in non-life-saving situations. Of course, there is always the possibility to break the glass: in the event of an emergency, everyone can and must baptize or therefore have access to a file in, for example, an emergency department or an intensive department. The regulations described certainly do not undermine the workability of the IT systems in healthcare, provided that the systems are also continuously updated in terms of security, privacy and technological change. It is just in that context that we will also allow the so-called fundamentals to evolve in the spirit of the time of the IT process. My policy cell has indeed contacted nexuzhealth. The arguments, which were also clarified, were discussed in more detail there. The organisation will have to make the adjustments and ensure that people's trust does not disappear. It is also important for hospitals to use systems with which there are no problems, because of course there are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your overview and for the actions that have already been taken. It is clear that we do not need to interfere in the legal proceedings with the insurance doctor who may be involved. The separation of powers is absolutely true here. You've started talking about trust, and you've ended it. That is of fundamental importance. A patient, a citizen, must be able to trust that his medical records are used correctly. The hospital must also be able to trust that medical data can be shared correctly. The underlying computer system must be adapted to this and must also guarantee and earn confidence. Therefore, it is important that you have spoken with Nexuzhealth, among other things, and that they make adjustments to avoid further damaging confidence. As the proverb says, trust comes slowly, but it goes away quickly. That is why we need to build this again slowly by adapting the IT systems. I believe that this is a good thing, which should also be followed up. In the context of your health plan, the eHealth plan 2019-2021, it is also important to look effectively at what you call the cluster of fundamentals. They have to evolve with time. Especially in the field of ICT, this evolution is happening very quickly. We must ensure that the trust of both patients and healthcare providers and hospitals is rebuilt and guaranteed. We need to be able to trust that our medical personal data will be used for which they should be used, especially medical treatments and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u32	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply, although I remain somewhat hungry about the effective role of the insurance company in this matter. After all, it is that company that has encouraged the doctor to conduct such a criminal act. I also wonder what's going on here. A large number of doctors work both for insurance and in hospitals. Can certain measures be taken in this area to avoid such cases? As you are aware, the patient has found out about this because she herself consulted the Health Viewer. However, how can a patient who does not consult the Health Viewer find out that a doctor, possibly an insurance doctor, has done such things? I am talking mainly about doctors who really have different interests than just treating the patient. That's another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Merckx, if a patient does not consult the Health Viewer himself, he or she cannot know. But that was also the case with the paper files in the past. I remember my internships in the hospital and my career as a general practitioner how many times a file was lost and how many times we didn't get a protocol because they didn't know who it was with. All this has now gotten much better, but the problem has not been solved. In fact, the patient can only know about this if he checks it out himself. However, it can now be checked. Both the hour and the doctor's identification are in the file. The patient may therefore know that the doctor has no therapeutic relationship with him or her. That is an important step forward. We didn't know that with the paper files, and then things like that happened. The insurance doctor in question had been attached to the hospital and had had the woman concerned as a patient. He then started working for the insurance company and has access to his login at the hospital or via-via, but in any case knowingly looked at the file again, which is totally illegal. The insurance companies are aware that they cannot have access to the patient's data in any way. The dome is also aware of this. However, if there is one individual going over the line, then that happens and then one has to be consistent in it. We are talking about someone who has acted deontologically and legally wrongly. I am not asking anyone to resign, but I believe that it can be considered a gross error in relation to the patient. It is also a gross error on the part of the insurance company, which is based on information which it was not entitled to and which it has interpreted. It concerns sensitive information about previous psychological complaints used to say years later that the complaint is not well founded. There was a history. There's enough dust for the insurance company to take action. Someone has not acted legally and not deontologically. I think it is right that we should discuss such matters here. That's how we let them know it can't be done. The legislator and certainly the Data Protection Authority have been cautious. I saw someone driving down a one-way street this morning, in the forbidden direction. Everyone knows that one should not pass a red sign with a white stripe. Yet there are those who think: I drive on, in the wrong direction. That doctor was probably someone like that. I hope there aren't too many of them. Nevertheless, the hospitals must arm themselves. It's about that program. I do know that it is difficult, because software is also: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. If one buys a program, everything is explained, but it is only when one works with it that one knows what one cannot do with it or what one should not be able to do with it. We all know how difficult that is, but when it comes to such large expenditure on hospitals, for example, one should be able to do a simulation exercise and try out a number of things before purchasing the programme. We have certainly also had contacts with the software providers concerned to say that this is not possible at all and that they must leave the market. If they do not comply with the legislation, they must do something else. Then they might have to make a musical instrument, which anyone can play, but not software for hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u34	Madam Secretary, I would like to respond to that last element. As we do for some software packages used by other healthcare providers, we should conclude a protocol. For the software you are referring to now, such as nexuzhealth and others, we should also conclude a protocol. If they do not agree, they must get out, as you say. That's another suggestion you can take with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u35	Madam Secretary, in Australia, a large group of women have gone to trial, and won, against Johnson & Johnson, producer of pelvic floor mats. These mats are designed to strengthen pelvic bottom muscles and thus to prevent organ breakdowns and/or incontinence problems. However, several women experienced side effects, such as severe pain or even immobility. Johnson & Johnson has meanwhile stopped producing these mats. Many pelvic floor mats have also been implanted in our country. Here, too, several patients have suffered from side effects. However, Gynaecologists had quickly concluded here that the mat was not the panacea as proposed by the producer. The problem now is that the side effects are different in nature, so it is not always clear what the cause is. In the Netherlands RIVM therefore advocates a standardised directive to report problems with mats. In our country, the FAGG has already sent an official letter to remove similar mats from Boston Scientific. In my opinion, the following questions arise in order to get a look at the situation in our country. First of all, how many pelvic floor mats have been implanted in women in our country? From which producers? Secondly, Boston Scientific mats were recalled. But what is the attitude of the FAGG towards Johnson & Johnson's mats and other producers, and why? Thirdly, do standard guidelines exist in our country to report on problems with pelvic floor mats? Why is that? Why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u36	Thank you for your question, Mrs Gijbels. Since there is no mandatory registration for the implantation of pelvic floor mats for the treatment of incontinence and prolapse, it is not really possible to provide a complete answer to the question about the number of pelvic floor mats implanted. Where there are serious complications related to pelvic floor mats, the Royal Decree of 18 March 1999 on medical devices states that both doctors and distributors and manufacturers of the medical device are legally obliged to report this to the FAGG. Although the number of incidents and reports of complications with pelvic floor mats used in urogynaecological surgery in FAGG is low, some women appear to develop serious complications. However, we must not forget that many women benefit from such a surgical procedure for often very disabled diseases. Especially the treatment of prolapse via transvaginal placement of a pelvic floor mat would result in a higher incidence of complications, due to the difference in technique to insert it. Both the report prepared by the Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identifyed Health Risks, a scientific body of the European Commission, and a consensus statement by the European Urology Association and the European Urogynaecological Association require that this procedure be considered fit only for a limited group of patients suffering from recurrent subsidence without alternative option. To further standardise the reporting of problems with pelvic floor mats of different manufacturers, a European Task Force was established at the end of 2019, in which the FAGG plays an active role. Its task is to draw up clear guidelines on what problems with pelvic floor mats manufacturers should report to the European authorities. This will also allow a better comparison of the problems faced by different products on the European market. This European-level working group decided in December 2017 to launch a kind of assessment of all the pelvic floor mats on the market in Europe, including Johnson & Johnson's pelvic floor mats. The purpose of the assessment is to evaluate the information provided by manufacturers and to ensure that manufacturers are also kept informed of new evidence. If a problem is detected which does not ensure compliance of the pelvic floor mat, the FAGG shall refer to the notified body. The declarations of benefit and risk are made by manufacturers as part of the CE certification process. This assessment procedure is part of the FAGG's normal regulatory arrangements and activities to ensure that manufacturers fulfil their obligations for the Conformity Européenne, the CE marking. The final decision on benefits and risks for an individual patient is made during a conversation between the patient and the healthcare provider, taking into account the current clinical evidence. It is also useful to report that since 1 January 2020 the RIZIV has been subject to mandatory registration for all pelvic floor mats that are transvaginally implanted for the recovery of prolapse. That register is an extension of the existing register, which only applied to the paid-back transvaginal pelvic floor mats for prolapse. The registry shall include baseline characteristics and follow-up data of treated patients as well as data on possible complications.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u37	Madam Secretary, that is clear to me. The European working group in which the FAGG now operates apparently only exists since the end of 2019, i.e. only a few weeks. I think that we should follow that very closely and also communicate well with the field of work. For the rest, your answer is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u38	Madam Minister, I recently asked you a question about 18 unauthorized NMR devices and the subsequent unauthorised invoicing of EUR 14.8 million to the RIZIV, on the basis of a report from the Court of Auditors. You replied that you have already been able to recover EUR 7.8 million and that there are three further procedures for EUR 1.9 million. Meanwhile, I have been informed through your website that new NMR devices have been ordered, which will be licensed. Coincidentally or not, this is also about 18 pieces. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. First of all, are the 18 newly-enabled devices the same as the 18 unoffended ones? Are the non-granted devices regularized or are they actually new ones? In which hospitals are the 18 non-granted devices and in which hospitals do the 18 newly ordered devices come? Secondly, what criteria will be used to determine where the 18 devices will be placed? For example, the number of devices for our country is increasing by 15%, but in Flanders only by 9%. Thirdly, if the unauthorized devices are regularised, what about the last three procedures that will recover EUR 1.9 million for the unlawful invoicing of treatments to the RIZIV? Are they gonna fall or are they gonna keep walking?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u39	Mrs Gijbels, as regards your question about the actual allocation of 18 additional NMR devices to hospitals, last April in the Inter-Ministerial Conference, it was decided that 18 aircraft would be added for the whole country. That was an agreement between me and my eight colleagues. The distribution was done on the basis of a number of parameters. The regions know how many planes they have. It's up to them to determine which aircraft they'll recognize. I have nothing to say about that. You will have to ask Minister Beke through your colleague in the other regions and in the Flemish Parliament where the aircraft will be. The protocol agreement on medical imaging of 24 February 2014 was concluded by my predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, through the Interministerial Conference. It included a first extension of the number of NMR devices. It explains that the ratio of NMRs per 100,000 inhabitants is taken into account when determining the regional distribution of additional NMRs. The calculation takes into account the reference function, the possible rural area and the hinterland of the Brussels-Capital Region, because many patients living around the Brussels region also go to Brussels hospitals. In addition to this 2014 Protocol Agreement of 5 November 2018, the additional extension of 18 NMR devices has also been included. It is explained that a further extension of the number of NMR devices will be granted insofar as strict and enforceable cross-compliance is met. That's what was decided in 2019. The Communities shall determine, on the basis of the specific situation in the Community, whether the existing capacity, but also the geographical spread, is to be given priority to hospitals which do not yet have an NMR. During the discussion there was also a text on the table stating that the hospitals that do not yet have NMR would be given priority, but that was not accepted by all the fellow ministers. They wanted to keep the freedom not to have to assign an NMR to hospitals where there wasn't one yet. They considered that a limitation of their power to choose which hospitals they allocate an NMR. If we were to say that the NMRs should first be allocated to the hospitals that do not yet have one, they would have lost a few, so was their reasoning. We have shown our understanding of this and, therefore, the protocol agreement does not state that the NMRs should first and foremost be allocated to hospitals which do not yet have one. The protocol agreement of 22 May on the distribution among the Länder of the programming of those 18 NMR devices provides for the addendum to the protocol agreement of 24 February 2014 on medical imaging of 5 November 2018, indicates that this brings the additional distribution of the number of NMR devices per region and per 100,000 inhabitants to 74 NMR devices for Flanders or 1,13 per 100,000 inhabitants, 44 NMR devices for Wallonia or 1,21 per 100,000 inhabitants and 21 NMR devices in Brussels or 1,35 per 100,000 inhabitants. For Brussels, however, it has to be borne in mind that there are also many patient flows to Brussels of patients from the Flemish Rand and other peripheral areas. It has been objectified and establishes an attraction from the so-called hinterland of 30%. The difficulty of the matter is that the expansion of NMR devices must be made budget-neutral. I've been working on it myself. That was quite a challenge and it will be again this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u40	Madam Minister, it is indeed a challenge, but when we look at the figures of the number of recordings, such as radiological or NMR recordings for low back pain, we see that far too many recordings are still taking place. Moreover, this number is much higher in Wallonia than in Flanders. The province of Hainaut makes 13,000 per 100,000 inhabitants, whereas they are actually not needed at all. In Flanders, this figure is still too high, but it is already much lower than in Wallonia. I therefore hope that the additional allocation of aircraft will also be accompanied by a check on the indication and that action will also be taken if this is a mistake. It is already a good thing that the CT scans are replaced by MRI scans, but I think there needs to be more awareness about the correct use of any imaging. After all, it is a serious attack on the budget for our health care. You also say that Brussels has been allocated the highest number of MRI devices. You point to the flux from the hinterland. But I think it's a good idea to look at exactly where that flux is coming from. If, for example, it appears that this flux is mainly from Wallonia, it should also be deducted from the number of appliances allocated to Wallonia, as these patients are not being investigated in Wallonia. We shave high peaks in our country as far as imaging is concerned. The allocation of additional devices also includes the responsibility of those who use them in the context of sound budget management.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u41	In your reply, you mentioned a number of other cases, such as switching CT investigations to NMR. That is what a committee is currently working on. Guidelines have already been sent to the doctors. Indeed, we are the champions in medical imaging of, among other things, the low back, but also in terms of sports injuries and so on. This gives way too much radiation for the patient. Many initiatives have already been taken in this area, but you will have to ask a new question. I did not include that information in this reply. There too, we must be budget-neutral. C.T.'s gonna have to disappear. It's not an en-en-story. The NMRs give less rays, but often also a clearer picture. However, it cannot be said that a patient should have a normal radiography first, then a CT scan and then let him go to the NMR. Too much radiation is bad for the patients. Many initiatives have been taken. You will have to ask another question. Are patients mostly from the hinterland of Wallonia? Around Brussels that is 30%. That's just as much in Flanders. I live 25 km from Brussels. I'll go to a Flemish hospital, but within the Brussels Rand. So I'm counting, too. One has to go somewhere, even if one has a choice between eight hospitals. There is a large flux, both in the Flemish Rand and from Walloon Brabant to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u42	Madam Secretary, I didn't just refer to the CT scans. They're definitely part of the story. Those additional MRI scans are supposed to replace the CT scans. Clear interventions must be made if this proves to be the case. That shouldn't happen. I think we can make a lot of savings here by reducing the number of recordings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u43	Madam Minister, I have here a letter from the CM to its members saying that the 25% discount on incontinence material she gave to its members through the home pharmacist in the past will be stopped. It refers them to the care store, one of its subsidiaries, where patients can buy incontinence material at a discount of 30%. That seems to me to be a very peculiar fact, all the more so because there is undoubtedly a link between the CM and Good Farma cvba. They even share the same address and are therefore linked with one hundred percent certainty. Madam Secretary, are you aware of that writing? Do you know of similar actions in the past? Can a health insurance fund impose compensation on patients at all where the healthcare equipment is to be purchased? Can a health insurance fund require that the care material be purchased from a linked organisation? Do you think there's any collusion here? Shouldn't that at least be investigated? The principle of the free choice of the care provider is one of the absolute rights of the patient. Do you think this is a violation of that principle? If so, what actions will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u44	Mrs Depoorter, I have indeed been able to take note of the letter, which has arrived in my bus via a favourable wind. Fortunately, we also have winds like this in our country; they don't all need a name. A complaint was lodged with the Health Insurance Office and with the national associations of the sickness funds. For the time being, we have done so everywhere, should other sickness funds have done so, when we have no knowledge of it. Following the examination of the complaint, it was considered that under the current legislation no infringements could be found of the legal and regulatory provisions whose compliance has to be verified by the aforementioned audit authority. Hospital funds are associations of natural persons who aim to promote the physical, psychological and social well-being of their members in a spirit of precaution, mutual assistance and solidarity. The granting of financial support for the purchase of incontinence material as a result of a decision of the general meeting of a sickness fund composed of the members of a sickness fund elected by the members entitled to vote may be subject to the conditions laid down by the sickness funds. The legislation applicable to sickness funds provides for the possibility of cooperating with other entities under supplementary insurance. In the present case, a number of the sickness funds provide for a financial intervention for their members who purchase incontinence material in so-called health care shops. Those care shops are, as you rightly say, of the same signature. The sickness funds may cooperate in their supplementary insurance with the entities of which they consider, on the basis of objective criteria, that they are best placed to promote the physical, psychological and social well-being of their members. That is how the original legislation is. The multi-annual Pact stresses the need to object to the benefits offered by sickness funds under their supplementary insurance schemes and partnerships. This involves defining clear, objective criteria. It is also in the sense that there has been cooperation. The relevant legislative initiatives were incorporated into the law on various health provisions. We have imposed more rules in that regard. From the law on various provisions, we have adopted a number of very urgent provisions, which had not been adopted after the government's early resignation and which we have had put forward in a proposal by various people from different parties. However, the obligation in question was too sensitive; there was not sufficient capacity to implement it. That is a pity, because as far as I am concerned, the patient must have the free choice where he or she buys the material and one should not do such a bond by granting only an advantage if one goes to a particular shop. Previously, the intervention was granted regardless of where the material was purchased, for example from the house pharmacist. Well, I've noticed that care stores shoot like mushrooms out of the ground. There will have to be a derogation, which we wanted to remedy, because it is rather unhealthy to want to bind people to a health insurance fund and a shop. Then what are we doing? People choose where they want to get their own equipment. I am therefore sorry to hear that. Unfortunately, the necessary provisions were ready, the legislative text took nine months to prepare. The law on various provisions is now on apegapen, until further notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u45	Madam Minister, the law on various provisions has been mentioned here several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u46	That's right, that law included a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u47	It seems like a bit of a patch, with which is always screened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u48	That is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u49	I think it would be scheduled for the end of December 2019, but then it will be taken out again. I do, however, share your view that such a campaign is unhealthy and very regrettable. I think it is absolutely contrary to the patient's free choice to get the care equipment from the care provider of his or her choice. Firstly, there is a commercial argument. It is not possible for a health insurance fund to cooperate with its own health care shops solely for commercial reasons. Secondly, you say that no infringements have been detected and that objective criteria must apply. The sickness funds may cooperate with other entities. I think that the objective criteria in this area are really lacking. It's a purely commercial activity. Your fellow Minister, Mr Muylle, put this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. It's under investigation. That must also be carried out. The patient's getting hurt again. A patient who often needs incontinence material is often less mobile and therefore cannot just go to the healthcare store by himself. At the back of the letter in question, the address of all concerned home care shops has been given, so that is really a form of advertising. I also have doubts about that. If the patient is not mobile, he can also order online, but that is not always evident for that type of patient either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u50	I think there's a line to be found. The fact that health insurance funds also have health care shops is not the problem. However, affordability and accessibility of care must be guaranteed. That is absolutely not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u51	Madam Minister, I have tabled this question in response to the report on the number of ambulance accidents. According to Het Belang van Limburg, there have been no less than 90 ambulance accidents in recent years. At present, the paramedics already have a theoretical test on priority driving in their training, but not a practical one or none, because that is what I am asking. The professional association for Belgian ambulances advocates the extension of the training with a practical test, in order to improve road safety. She says she has repeatedly urged your cabinet to do so. At present, therefore, a practical test is not mandatory and only happens sporadically. However, there are special training centres for this. In the Antwerp police area, the investment in a practical training for priority driving led to a drastic reduction in accidents in the police services. An accident can never be ruled out, but practical training nevertheless reduced the number of accidents. The number of accident-free kilometres increased by more than 608 % in four years. This is a win-win situation for road safety, investment in new vehicles and the safety of patients and staff in the cars. It is reported that the professional association has repeatedly urged your policy cell to require practical driving training. What do you think of that proposal? What are the advantages and/or disadvantages of a possible introduction of this training? Which hospitals already provide for this training? Are they financially supported for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u52	Thank you for your question, Mr Bertels. The training of aid worker-ambulancier is regulated by the Royal Decree of 13 February 1998 concerning training and completion centres for aid workers-ambulancers. In particular, the basic training is strictly defined in Annex 2 to the same Royal Decree. It contains a theoretical instruction on the code of several hours. Practical training for driving as a priority is not required in that KB. For the exercise of the profession of auxiliary ambulancier, it is not automatically assumed that one should also drive the vehicle and thus be the driver of the vehicle. The training of aid worker-ambulancier focuses on the actions needed to stabilise the patient's state of health. The driving of the ambulance is part of the normal driving training which may be followed through the employer. The driving of a vehicle has aspects that are specific to the type of vehicle. An ambulance driver weighing more than 3.5 tonnes needs a specific driving licence, as defined in the traffic code. After all, an ambulance doesn't just stand still. The training required for this purpose must be followed by the driver with the assistance of his or her employer. In any case, it is necessary for those at the wheel of the ambulance to have that driver's license and therefore that expertise. Otherwise, he or she isn't okay, which is a dangerous thing. The training of the police services involved is a training which is not offered exclusively in the provincial schools. In some hospitals these training courses are offered to drivers of the MUG vehicles. Those hospitals do not receive any specific remuneration for this. So they invest in it themselves. The grants received by the schools for auxiliary staff are intended to provide the basic training provided for in the Royal Decree so that those ambulances can perform the activities entrusted to them in a quality manner. No additional federal subsidies are provided for the driving training of ambulance drivers. However, it goes without saying that the driver must have completed such additional training either at his own expense or at the expense of the ambulance service or at the expense of the hospital, if the MUG is involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u53	Mr President, Minister, the answer is clear, although it does not quite satisfy me. It is clear that someone who drives an ambulance weighing more than 3.5 tonnes must have a'special' driving licence and not just a driving licence for a passenger car. Otherwise, he or she violates the law. That's obvious. As regards practical vocational training to acquire either the skills or the special driving licence, you indicate that the person concerned must try to arrange this with his employer, in this case the hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u54	Of ambulancedienst.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u55	You say that the employer must then take part in vocational training, or that the employee must do it himself. It seems obvious to me that when an entire sector asks for measures to be taken because of the usefulness of this practical vocational training for priority driving, we must look at how we can facilitate it by means of a concession, for anyone who needs it or finds it useful, regardless of the obligation to have the right driving licence, so that the person can drive the ambulance safely. This is good not only for the safety of the auxiliary staff but also for the safety of the other road users. In short, we must consider whether we cannot take supportive measures and who will then be able to provide them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u56	For your information, we agreed to stop at item 15 on the agenda. The authors of paragraph 16 have now left. Madam Secretary agrees to stay a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u57	Mr President, Minister, it is the umpteenth time I have asked a question about a prescription medicine that can be obtained through foreign webshops. In this case, it concerns the Chinese webshop AliExpress. There you can buy the skin ointment Zudaifu for 2 euros. Zudaifu is a cream containing clobetasol propionate. It is recommended on the site as a natural product and a panacea. For example, there are still sales on the Internet, but there are still dangers to this. In our country, clobetasol propionate is prescribed. Applying Cortisone to the skin in too large quantities on too large areas has long-term consequences and side effects. Are you aware that this product can be obtained through that Chinese webshop in Belgium? Do you have any indication of the popularity of that product? Two euros is very low-threshold, it is very cheap; a form of clobetasol propionate costs about 70 cents in the pharmacy with refund. If you have to go to a doctor first for a prescription, it is therefore more expensive for the patient. Do you have any idea of the exact level of clobetasol propionate present in this product? After all, it is not on the packaging. It says there's clobetasol propionate in it, but it doesn't say the right psology. Will you take measures to inform the public about the harmful effects of this product? What measures can you take to ensure that this product cannot be ordered and cannot be imported?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u58	Mr President, I know AliExpress and Alibaba, but I don't order online, I shop here. Those are Chinese companies indeed. At the moment there is some fear of ordering there and perhaps that is a good thing. The product to which you refer is indeed offered on websites worldwide as a product that is good for everything: skin disorders, wrinkles, eczema, psoriasis. When people read it, it's really a miracle cure. According to the legislation in force in Belgium, a product is considered not only as a medicinal product based on its composition, namely the presence of pharmacologically active substances, but also on the basis of its presentation indicating therapeutic indications. The fact that this medicine is offered as treatment for eczema and psoriasis means that it is considered a medicinal product regardless of its composition. There is no authorisation for this substance on the Belgian or European market. So it's an illegal drug. Illegal means are being tracked down. In the first half of 2019, ten packages containing Zudaifu were seized by the FAGG Special Investigation Unit at bpost. Figures from the second half of 2019 are not yet available, but before 2019 this product was not found in all controlled postal items. I suppose this will have happened in the second half of 2019. In general, the problem of illicit online sales of medicines is increasing year after year. It's from China. It's coming from everywhere. In 2018, a total of 5,702 postal consignments containing illegal medicines were seized by the FAGG inspection services. In 2012 there were 1,072. This is an increase of 400 %. This increase is due to more shipments, but also to more controls. Because these and other similar products are presented and are certainly not, and are not licensed on the European and Belgian markets, they are seized every time they are found during checks. Taking into account the costs associated with the analysis of medicinal products, we have not yet analysed any samples of them. They'll be destroyed. Other Chinese products which would consist of purely vegetable ingredients and which are proposed as medicinal products were investigated. These analyses have shown that pharmacologically active substances are sometimes present, but their composition is not always constant and may vary from lot to lot. Thus, Zudaifu's online offer cannot be separated from the problem of selling illegal medicines via the Internet in general. In addition to the control of postal consignments coming to our country from outside the EU, there is an important preventive measure, and that is the awareness of citizens about this issue. An information campaign was started in 2009, "Don't surf with your health." This campaign is still available on the website of the FAGG. We also regularly post warnings on that website. Additional measures shall be developed to make that information, including the risks that it may pose, accessible to the general public through the website of the information platform. We are constantly working with services such as the police, but above all with customs, to keep up and to be able to confiscate those packages. It comes from far away and it won't improve. I have seen that Amazon will also start a pharmacy department. I'm already holding my heart. If you know what they're already sending and that they're starting an online pharmacy... We don't know what's gonna fall under this, but that's gonna be a big player too. They come from outside Europe and are already being monitored, but it is a challenge to be able to take action there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I think we agree that this is a huge challenge. Looking for those packages is looking for a pin in the haystack. You said 5,700 have now been seized. That will be a small percentage of what is being imported into our country. If there have been awareness campaigns since 2009, then I think that they have really not worked well and that an additional effort will certainly have to be made. Even more, we need to think about a framework to stop it. Parents come to me in the pharmacy with a prescription from the doctor and ask if there is any cortisone in the medicine, because then they shouldn't have it, but the same parents illegally order the same cortisone ointment on an online platform, without knowing with certainty what it contains. This is something we really need to work on and guarantee public health. We must protect people from the single market that is the Internet, where everything is at its disposal. There's also a question about ketamine on the agenda. When we talk about medication, we have to establish that people feel safe on the Internet, but they don't. It is up to the government to make that very clear to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u60	Madam Secretary, together with several colleagues I have questions about Novartis' lottery. At the end of December we found out that Victor was the first Belgian baby to be registered at the famous lottery that Novartis decided to organize following the scandal surrounding Zolgensma and the story about Pia, also in our country, which had caused a lot of resentment about the extremely high price. Novartis thought to polish his image by organizing a lottery, but meanwhile a lottery has already responded, as well as resentment over the unethical side of such a lottery. When that lottery was announced, the French Minister of Health immediately responded by saying that the babies in France will have access to the treatment and do not have to sign up for that draw. Madam Secretary, why is that possible in France? In the meantime, we know that the governments of Portugal and Germany also provide for concessions. What is the state of affairs in Belgium? The case has already been discussed in the media. Together with your colleagues, you wrote a letter to Novartis, to which Novartis responded. How did that contact with Novartis go? We are now halfway to February, while baby Victor is registered in that lottery at the end of December. How many Belgian children are now registered in that lottery? Are there any babies under there who already had Zolgensma?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, we were able to read in the press on Thursday 30 January your joint statement with the Ministers of Health of the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria and Ireland (in the BeNeLuxA initiative) indicating your great reservation about the willingness of Novartis society to draw lots 100 children with spinal amyotrophy, children who will be administered Zolgensma at a rate of one every fortnight. This medicine is one of the most expensive in the world: almost two million dollars a dose. We talked a lot about it in the little Pia's case. You call on Novartis and AveXis to review their system and engage in a genuine dialogue with the BeNeLuxA initiative to provide the drug in a sustainable and ethical manner to children who need it after marketing authorisation. However, Novartis still launched its lottery, putting pressure on countries that have not yet granted a license to Zolgensma. The system of negotiating prices for innovative medicines has become so harmful that pharmaceutical companies are giving the right to decide which child will be able to live and which child will have to die. Minister, what do you intend to put in place very concretely so that this blackmail and speculation never happens again? Is this not an opportunity to move, very practically, towards more transparency in price negotiations, as the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended in its resolution of 28 May 2019, asking States to share their information and to make public the outcome of negotiations with firms in order to limit speculation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u62	Since Ms Dominiek Sneppe was absent, her question No 55003136C was considered to be irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u63	Mr President, Madam Minister, despite the affair of the little Pia, which was saved thanks to a fund raising of EUR 1.9 million allowing the administration of this famous drug Zolgensma marketed by pharmaceutical firm Novartis – an event which should have led to a significant revision of the exorbitant cost of its medicine – this firm launched as early as 3 February a lottery which will allow 100 children identified as having this terrible disease, and drawn by lot every two weeks, to receive the treatment mentioned above, thus enabling them to heal. Madam Minister, together with your colleagues in the European Union, you have flouted this practice and pointed out that the lottery cannot be organised in the field of public health. Thank you very much. However, what is really at the heart of this issue is the lack of transparency and regulation in the negotiation of prices on the market for medicinal products at global and European level and, consequently, the accessibility of medicinal products. WHO recommends avoiding speculation in this sector, but unfortunately does not weigh against the pharmaceutical giants who benefit from the inability of our states to control this health at two speeds. Madam Minister, are there any concrete solutions to avoid such drifts at both Belgian and European level? What would be the practical consequence of the authorisation to place Zolgensma on the market, which is currently being applied to the European Medicines Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u64	Thank you for your question. We have rightly responded with the five countries within Beneluxa, because organising a lottery when it comes to human lives is wrong in all respects. We've never seen that before, to be honest. Of course, there have been contacts with Novartis. There they say: we speak not of a lottery but of a lottery. I don't really see the difference, but fuck it. Novartis says this is necessary because it cannot produce enough of those medicines for all children affected, pending the start of a second production unit. The government can't do anything about that. The regulatory framework provides for the possibility for a doctor with a doctor's certificate and a prescription to import a medicine from abroad, which would also happen here. In short, we did ask the company to explain its approach. Novartis says it's a temporary matter because production capacity is limited. Last week, my fellow Ministers participating in the Benelux initiative and myself, strongly denounced in a joint press release the plans of Novartis and AveXis and their approach to making the medicine available. While we appreciate that the drug is available free of charge with its registration, we ask that this approach be scientifically sound. We cannot allow a child's life to depend on a lottery. In the press release, we emphasize the need for a plan to provide medication to all patients who need it pending registration and eventual reimbursement. As far as the latter is concerned, there is still no approval from the EEA. We've decided to have the refund processed by the CTG as soon as that approval arrives. Meanwhile, there is a delay, as the EEA had announced this before the end of 2019. However, we can see that this is still not settled. As for France, this is another story, since the development of the drug was co-financed there. It is up to them to make a decision. In Portugal, it is another matter. That's where the government paid it back for one patient, but not for all the next. In Germany, it's still different. In this respect, we are going to follow the procedure and let these medicines go the normal way through the Committee on Medicinal Products. With this lottery, maybe one child can be made happy, if it's there. I think they'll raffle four a month. They will never be able to take care of all children. Children are always born with this condition, but we have no idea whether the age and degree in which they are affected is taken into account. So I continue to find it unethical and very unusual. They have come to the cabinet for a polite conversation, but they continue. They have said that they might still be looking for another way, but they are moving on. So we're left with all our questions, but that doesn't detract from the fact that something is first launched... Besides, all the treated children are also getting the reimbursed medication. How they are going to make the difference between the effect of their medicine and the effect of what we have injected every three months, Spinraza, will also be of no use to me. The main thing is that it would work and they should, of course, be able to treat more children. I think it is in that respect that they have made this a sort of lottery, but I do not think that is acceptable at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u65	If people think ethically about it, they are children at risk of dying. If it involves profit hunger, there is no longer any ethical limit. The idea of a lottery is really scandalous, just like the fact that they can just move on with this. You say you're powerless. However, we need to think further about this and take this as an example of a pharmaceutical industry that exceeds any limit. One also uses the excuse for the so-called lack of production capacity. But apparently, if we put in EUR 1.9 million, there is no capacity problem. This really doesn't make any sense. One of the options is the introduction of compulsory licences. We put that bill on the table here, too. This is currently being discussed. We have already taken a lot of advice on this. In my view, that is part of the solution, to address it at European level as well. The whole discussion about the expensive medicine and the action of Pia's parents has ensured that the debate is now about the extremely high prices. Novartis launched a new initiative that completely missed the ball. As a government, we also owe it to parents to act strictly and be innovative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u66	This news, which goes beyond all limits of decency, casts reproach on the entire pharmaceutical sector. Of course, it can be understood that the prices of some drugs are very high because they are used to fund research, but in this case Novartis has not done any research! The company bought a €6 billion licence from a company whose research had been financed by Telethon. Its sole objective is to make its investment profitable. So we are beyond any form of decency, and I cannot understand why the pharmaceutical sector as a whole is not revolting at such an intolerable situation. I can therefore only encourage you to continue your efforts at European level, because our country alone is not capable of fighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u67	We were aware that our intervention as a small country would not have much impact, which is why we have asked the other Benelux countries to react collectively and put this item on the agenda of European meetings. I was also dismayed to learn that a sort of lottery was planned to select patients for therapy. We don't know anything about that production. These data are available only within the firm. There's a lot of explanation for it, but it doesn't make any sense from start to finish. That's just beyond comprehension. I've seen some doctors think this is better than nothing, but still. I also understand the parents who sign up for it. Those people have a small chance, but they hope for their child, of course, that they will be there. I totally understand that, but there really shouldn't be such a thing. We must continue to work together for this, and so must the EEA, they must take a decision. It's good or not. Can it go to the Member States or not? That's important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I am really relieved to hear you share the feeling that we had when we read this news, to hear you say that you were just as shocked as we were by this lottery of life. A pharmaceutical firm is not here to decide which child has the right to live or not. It has an obligation to develop medicines to enable all these children to live and heal. All the more so since, as you said, it is a drawing by lot; therefore it is purely random, it is not based on age, on the degree of progress of the disease, etc. This remains fundamentally unfair. I have no voice in relation to Novartis' explanation that they are not in a position to market this medicine properly. As far as I'm concerned, reports should be given. As one of my colleagues explained, we are working at the parliamentary level to find solutions. But know, at the executive level, that we are on your side. We will encourage you to continue your work alongside other European states in this BeNeLuxA initiative for sustainable and affordable access to medicines. I am very much in line with what has been said, namely that we are indeed too small to act in the face of such pharmaceutical giants. It is at European level that we must work. I encourage you to continue your work to put pressure on Novartis so that developed medicines can benefit all those who need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u69	Mr De Smet has asked for his question No. 55002439C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u70	Madam Secretary, an extracorporeal shock wave therapy of ESWT is used in tendon overload, you are probably known by conditions like a tennis elbow or heel trail. ESWT is often used, but there is no nomenclature code for it. In the past, we have talked about therapies with insufficient scientific evidence for their good results. However, this is not the case with ESWT. Hospitals are gonna do the therapy. It is an open secret that they charge a pseudocode for that and do not receive a refund through the RIZIV. That is a pity, because for those who have problems like a tennis elbow or heel track and can be helped with ESWT, more expensive therapies can be avoided. The scientific evidence for ESWT is convincing. The therapy benefits. Why is there no nomenclature code for ESWT? Why is there no refund for ESWT? Is this therapy hugely expensive? Does it increase the budget? You have an impressive portfolio, maybe the ESWT can still get in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u71	I can give you some explanation. There is no nomenclature code because a file has never been submitted to the Technical Medical Board for approval. For each benefit included in the nomenclature eligible for intervention by the RIZIV, a dossier must be dealt with there. As in the case of medicinal products, for which an application must be made to the Committee on Medicinal Products, it is also the manufacturer of the device that has to make the application. If there is no nomenclature code, there is no refund. The professions of doctors performing this performance or a scientific association may submit to the Council a dossier containing medical and technical explanations for intervention. They should then indicate which patients benefit from this and what the scientific evidence is for this. At the same time, they must also submit a budgetary dossier indicating the costs necessary to ensure that the performance is properly carried out. Why should they be afraid to apply if they have scientific evidence? Nothing is being passed on to the RIZIV either. If they use different nomenclature codes for this purpose, they are, of course, persecutable. After all, that is an infringement. After all, a performance can only be charged if it has been done effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic118x.u72	Mr President, Minister, as I understand it, a pseudo-code is entered in the field in order to have a registration, but it does not provide for a refund. There is therefore no other refund, to put it this way. As far as I know, there's no abuse of that. However, your answer is very clear. I will therefore ask those concerned, being the doctors in charge, to submit such a file to the Technical Medical Council and to justify the scientific evidence involved and what their cost estimate would be, so that the extracorporeal shock wave therapy or ESWT can be refunded in the case of tendon overloads such as a tennis elbow or heel track.
