ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u1	Colleagues, welcome everyone. The agenda contains questions about the procurement procedure for the mouth masks. On the basis of the questions put, I thought it appropriate to have a topical debate on them. The Rules of Procedure give us this opportunity and so we make use of it. According to the Rules of Procedure, everyone has two minutes' speaking time. Anyone who has not tabled a question but wishes to speak will have the opportunity to do so after the Minister's reply. So I suggest that we start with the questioners, then we listen to the Minister's answer, then there is a possibility of replying to the Members who have tabled a question and, finally, those who have not tabled a question can also be given the floor. Can everyone agree to that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u2	Mr Minister, on 29 April 2020, half a month ago, you stated in an interview with RTBF that the government had ordered Defence to order 18 million mouth masks. Last week, in the Army Purchases Committee of the Staff, I was allowed to find out in what way Defence had handled that order. Minister, I have to admit that I had quite a lot of faith in it. I was confident that something efficient would be dealt with for once in our country. This was, however, out of the mark or outside the Belgian State. Indeed, it appears that little or no background check has been carried out on potential foreign suppliers, so it must at least be noted that those suppliers are of a critical balance-sheet nature. One of the two suppliers has a share capital that is smaller than that same capital of a typical Flemish frieshop, which is about 31,000 euros. The second supplier even has negative equity. We have not yet discussed the loss of nearly 1.2 million transferred from one of the two suppliers. First of all, do you think it is a good idea to order 18 million mouth masks from such firms? Secondly, has a background check been carried out on the suppliers in question, whether or not an accounting check has been carried out? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the above was already questionable. Fortunately, I have not yet asked any questions about the fact that your mouth masks are not compatible with the order of Minister Geens. Fortunately, I do not have to ask you any questions. My good colleague, Mrs Ponthier, will do that later. What I would have liked to know about you is this. What exactly does the federal government's mission entail? What were the technical modalities to be met by the order of the Defense Department? My question on funding was answered last week, so I will not ask it again. I asked the staff the question of 1 million last week, but she was happy to pass it on to you. Apparently, this is very sensitive. Will the DOD vouch for the stockage of the mouth masks? If so, where and how exactly will that happen? Is Defence currently in or are there plans for the storage of personal protective equipment, whether or not intended for purposes outside the department? If that is the case, which PPE are they and where are they stored? Finally, I would like to ask a question that my group has already asked Minister De Block a few times, but which she has not received an answer to. Is it true that the more than 57.5 million surgical mouth masks that were stored in the army barracks in Namur were still in good condition when they were destroyed? Is it true that they had to be destroyed because asylum seekers would be accommodated in the barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you, at the last meeting of this committee, about the mask saga. I would like to return to you today, because the order has been finalized and two companies, one from Luxembourg and the other from Belgium, have been selected, the delivery of the masks will take place on 24 May next. Minister, I would like a little more detail on this purchase that was entrusted to Defence. So why did you choose a mask model that is not compatible with the filters that will be distributed at the initiative of Minister Geens? As far as suppliers are concerned, why not address you only to Belgian companies? This, in my view, demonstrates the need for essential production in Belgium in order to avoid always having to address foreign firms. What about the logistics and schedule of this order in terms of reception and distribution? Is it the army that will be responsible for distributing these masks? Will logistics be organized for this purpose, or will the municipalities that have already responded to the federal shortcomings again be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u4	Mr Verduyckt, I assume you will merge your two questions into one whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u5	Mr President, I have sent in a lot of questions and would like to introduce them in general. The file on the mouth masks that has now reached the Ministry of Defence has a history with other ministers. The summary in two words: too late. Maybe too many ministers, too. In essence, the DOD can't do anything about it. Last week on the committee, we noticed that the DOD wanted to work fast and well. That was very clear. The history and urgency of this dossier make me concerned today about two things: the validity of the procedure and its outcome. The first part of my questions concerns the preliminary stage with the Belgian sector and why this has not been followed up. That is not clear to me from the file. When it comes to legal waterproofing, I have a number of reservations. I note that during the procedure the dossier was faced with a change in the standard of the product, which is quite exceptional. Normally it takes years to establish a standard, but here it was changed in four days, during the procedure. This is not about a detail: it concerns the discussion on filter and permeability of a mouth mask. That is not unimportant, because we could also make a metal mouth mask that doesn't get through, but then they will be dead within two minutes and that is not the intention. Essential to a filter is that it is useful and that people can use it. Something has changed, and I'm worried about that. I note that the word 'equivalent' has been added to the dossier, perhaps not without reason. As far as the procedure is concerned, it is not clear to me why the four selected companies, including three Belgian companies, have finally become two. On the basis of the criteria mentioned, I cannot decide why this selection took place. Minister, I am particularly concerned about the outcome. There are a lot of questions today about one of the two appointed firms. The file does not show whether this company has been able to offer guarantees with regard to those 250,000 masks. I also do not know whether the models have been submitted in the meantime. Minister, you are taking a particularly high risk by going into business with such a firm. The most important thing is that she will be able to deliver those masks to us later, and that is what it is all about in the end. It's a mailbox company. It's a firm that has money, because it's about a market where cash is very important today, so it's probably a firm with money. It's obviously not a textile company. Are we sure that we will have the mouth masks and that the quality will be all right? We're gonna take a risk here anyway. The whole nation is watching us today. Mr. Secretary, it would be very bad if this were to go wrong. I hope that procedure is waterproof. I also read, for example, that the company still had some documents to submit. That makes it all a bit questionable. Finally, Minister, are you sure that the procedure is legally sound and that we will get the result for which we pay a lot of money, namely good masks for the Belgians?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u6	Mr President, Minister, a completely unknown post office bus company, with no known activity, which officially rents cars, has finally become our partner with whom we have ordered almost EUR 40 million mouth masks. When I hear something like that, all the alarm bells go off right away. The Belgian textile federation Creamoda also has major questions about this award, especially because the two companies are financially very weak. As Mr Creyelman said, one has negative own funds and a loss of more than EUR 1 million, the other has a capital of about EUR 30,000 in the bank. I do know that we won't pay for the masks until they arrive, that's what you said at RTL this week. There is, however, a problem when dealing with such firms. If it turns out something's not right, something we don't know today or at the delivery itself, then what? For example, in a month's time the mouth masks may become ripe for the waste bin after five washes. Then there's nothing more to tell at these firms because they have nothing. Many questions have been raised about Avrox's mailbox company from Luxembourg in particular. Alsico from Ronse is even considering legal action against the Defense Department. I believe that, as a Member of Parliament in general and as a member of the Committee on Army Purchases in particular, it is my job to check this dossier thoroughly. This is important for all participants in this tender. For them it is important to hear that everything has been done correctly. I must admit that my surprise was great when I looked into the file on Monday. Instead of an extensive file, I only got one thin folder with some overview documents. I didn't get to see the details. I've provided you with a list of about 30 questions. I will confine myself to quoting a handful of it. I hope your cabinet will be able to send me the detailed answers by e-mail. I'll stick with five questions. First of all, why did the oral mask standard developed with the industry change? Is it true that lobbying was taking place from the Cabinets in order to reduce the standards of air permeability, the number of washes and the temperature of washing? Secondly, how did Avrox even get on the list of participants, especially when it is known that the firm is completely unknown in that environment? The company has no website and no phone number. Who put that firm with you? Thirdly, you said that the members of the embassy in Vietnam paid a visit to those firms. That's what you said on RTL. In doing so, they were able to see that everything was in order. I find that remarkable, because those firms were apparently visited by your services even before the assignment was assigned to those firms. A lot of people think that's suspicious. Why do we check a firm before it is sure that it will receive the award? How many other firms were visited? Fourthly, we must combat postal bus companies with no name and no known activity, or tax avoidance, by all means. Does the government send the right signal by going into business with a company that is not transparent at all? Fifthly, lack of transparency is a matter, but it is something else if the legislation is not in order. Well, I've also discovered through my own research that Avrox isn't okay. For example, the company has ignored the mandatory deposit of the annual figures since 2017. I hope you can come up with the answers that everyone is waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u7	Mr Minister, my colleague has already asked a number of questions at the beginning of the sitting and last week the Staff provided a technical explanation in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. I would nevertheless like to ask you a number of general questions in the topical and urgent debate. Hopefully there will be a concrete answer. What is in detail the current state of play in the dossier, and in particular with regard to procurement and delivery? Is the proposed delivery period, namely 24 May, unchanged, taking into account all the comments made in the file? How will distribution be organised? To what extent will the DOD commit itself to this? Let me repeat my colleague's question. In view of the recent troubles with the storage capacity of the strategic stock of the mouth masks, I would like to ask where the mouth masks will be stored when they arrive. Are the filters ordered by the Cabinet-Nogens compliant or not? You have already answered this in the media, but a critical mind does not simply believe what is being said in traditional media. This is the right time to hear your explanation of this and to know whether or not it was desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u8	Mr Minister, I would like to thank the Staff for the very rapid follow-up to the purchase, as was demonstrated at the meeting of the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. Actually, I just have a few practical questions. Who will vouch for the distribution of the mouth masks? How will that be handled? Are they individually packaged? Will information be available on the use and reuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u9	Minister, Mr Freilich has already asked a lot of questions about the procedure. Like him, I'm a little worried when I look at the file, because it's flimsy. I sincerely hope that the DOD has not provided us with all the information and that the file means more than what we have seen. I assume that this is the case, especially since reference is made to all kinds of references which we cannot check. I therefore hope that there is more than what has been presented to us on the basis of the right of inspection. My questions mainly focus on what will happen if the masks were delivered effectively in Peutie on May 24th. What role will the Defense play in the transport and distribution of the masks? Will the delivered stock be distributed directly to the provincial centres for further distribution? Is that gonna be phased out? Which organisations and governments will the Defence Department work with? Will the DOD even play a role in delivering those masks to all civilians? Is there any idea of the cost? There is a great deal of uncertainty among local authorities as to whether they have a role to play in the distribution of mouth masks. I hope you will be able to clarify this later. How many of the 18 million mouth masks will be stored for a longer period? There was already a question about the mouth masks in the past, but what will happen to any stockage in the future? What role will the DOD play in this? Is there a space for sustainable storage? Will the Department of Defense once again vouch for the stockage? The defence laboratories in Peutie are already carrying out qualitative tests on purchased mouth masks, using a tester on loan from Janssen Pharmaceutica. However, Defense also planned the purchase of a second test device, specifically for the fabric masks. Did the Department of Defense realize that purchase by now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, as well as my colleagues, I have been concerned about this issue for several days, given the information we know. In our last committee, I was asking you about the new mission that was assigned to you, namely to carry out this famous order of oral masks for the citizens. As the deal was barely launched, you couldn't answer all my questions, but you tried to reassure me. I am absolutely no longer so today because since then we have been able to obtain various information, not only in the Military Purchases Committee but also in the press and in the dossier. We have thus learned that the contract has been awarded to two companies, one of which, unfortunately, has been discussed a lot since the beginning of this commission. This is the Luxembourg company Avrox which has to provide us with 15 of the 18 million tissue oral masks that the government promises to distribute in support of the local initiatives already in place. If I dare to believe the little information revealed about this company, particularly by the Dutch-speaking press, the company seems very unreliable, as some colleagues have already said. Indeed, it has a so-called "letterbox" address on the outskirts of Luxembourg, like dozens of other companies at the same address. In 2020, when you search, you often go through the Internet, through reference sites, and you find that Avrox does not actually exist anywhere: no website, no telephone number. It is simply learned that this company actually seems more experienced in vehicle rental than in mask manufacturing. Mr Minister, even if you tried to be reassuring last Sunday on the television set of RTL's Sunday show, not to mention it, by confirming to us that representatives had been able to visit the factories specified in the market and that they were actually making masks, I would like you to be able to explain to the Defence Committee today. Like my colleagues, I'm not used to believing anything that can be told in the press. Therefore, Minister, could you report to us officially on the information that you have? Could you reassure us on the current market and on the reliability of one of the two companies to which we awarded the contract? In addition, could you inform us about the tests and samples in progress, the financial transaction and the receipt of this delivery? Will it take place on the dates we estimated? Can the Defence be asked to make available its storage, delivery, etc. skills for the reception of these masks? I'm trying to summarize all my concerns. I hope you read my question anyway, which was a little longer. For the sake of efficiency, in order not to repeat everything that has already been said, I shall stop there. You will, in any case, have understood that I am worried and that I expect real answers from you. I would also like to take two seconds to thank the Defence staff who have worked very hard and in the urgency necessary to carry out this mission, the development of the specifications and the contract. I think we can thank them for the work done, even though there are still some questions today. I count on you to reassure me and provide me with useful information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u11	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make a comment on last week's in camera meeting. I don't know if you know, minister, but we had a whole debate about the in camera nature of this meeting. After that, everything that was said about it ended up in the press the next day. I do not want to start a long debate, but I think we should have a discussion in the Defence Committee on how this meeting was organised last week. You were not there and I understand that you do not always know how to be present, but in terms of transparency and democratic control of Parliament over the government, it seems to me that there is a small democratic failure. I would also like to thank all the Defence people who were present and who answered our questions as they could. As far as masks are concerned, we are late when we see the speed with which Defence has been able to find suppliers and even if we can still discuss the effectiveness of these masks. In any case, we are very critical of this delay. We want to be positive, however, by telling you that these masks, we need them and we want them. Indeed, the National Security Council announces that they are mandatory in public transport and recommended in shops. Yet we are still not able in this country to provide two per person. There is therefore a great contradiction. It is better to keep a certain unity at the level of our population in order to resolve this major health crisis. The least we can say is that bumblebees in relation to masks do not help solve this problem for our fellow citizens. Why have Defence been asked to take these steps, when it is Minister Geens who is, in principle, responsible for fabric masks? Why was the public lied by ensuring that masks and filters would be ordered before announcing that they should not be inserted? This is madness: we ordered 18 million masks made of double fabric, then we say that filters are not necessary! Meanwhile, people of good will who sewn masks themselves are told that a filter will be required. I'd like to be told what the material of the ordered fabrics was. Anyway, it's a mess in this area! We asked the Defence, who obviously could not answer us, to what extent its personnel would play a role in the distribution of masks. Unless I'm mistaken, I don't see how this government planned this operation. Finally, after receiving the masks – and we hope it will be on May 24 – how long will their quality control last and when will they be distributed to the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Defence has been commissioned to place an order of 18 million textile masks. First of all, it is positive that the government is working on this, as we now and in the future need oral masks. It can never be predicted whether the measures against the corona virus will be intertwined in our country. That is why it is absolutely useful for every Belgian to be fitted with a mouth mask. Defense has experience with that kind of logistics operations, so it's not illogical for the Defense Department to play a role in that. It is also good that we can now have a public debate on this. The Committee on Army Procurement has already met on this subject, but some elements should be able to form part of the public debate. I'd like to say that the DOD reacted very quickly. Some speak of slowness or figs after Easter. I cannot, of course, reveal too much of what was declared behind closed doors, because that is what the Minister deserves. A day after the order was sent to the Defense Department, the offer and the announcement were sent to a very large number of companies. So the defense has acted very quickly. The delivery deadline is within two weeks. One had less than one month to order and have 18 million mouth masks delivered, in short a rather tight deadline. I have no indications that we will not reach that deadline, but of course I look forward to the Minister's reply. I look at this with a critical mind, but also with an open sight. I should also like to point out that some of Mr Freilich's criticisms in the press do not correspond to reality. Mr Freilich said that it was 58 million mouth masks, but that is wrong, he was mistaken. He thought it was an order, but in fact it is mainly about a framework agreement, a small part of which is effective in ordering. (...) too expensive: EUR 200 million. That is wrong: the price is lower. Over the last few weeks, we have advocated a strong humanitarian role for defence: helping the nation in these kinds of calamities. If it is to take on such a role, we must welcome it and not level it with false arguments. However, there are questions I would like to ask you, Minister. How thorough was the screening of the tenders, given the limited time span during which everything had to be completed? What guarantees do you have about the Luxembourg company in question that was not previously active in this sector? That is what most questions are about, which also makes sense. Has that company been properly vetted? What guarantees are there that delivery will be effective by 24 May? Finally, a question close to our heart. What do you say to those who regret that the assignment did not go to a Belgian company? We know that Belgian companies have been signed up, but why didn't the assignment go entirely to a Belgian company or Belgian companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u13	Okay, those were the different questions. I understand that a number of people have not tabled a question, but wish to take the floor. I must point out that they can only take the floor once. I had said at the beginning of the sitting that the Members who ask to speak after the questions would do so after the Minister. Mr Vicaire, you insist on saying something now, but I must point out that you will not be given the floor afterwards. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. Mr Vicaire, would you like to speak before or after the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u14	Minister, with the mask saga, we realize you're the firefighter on duty. The army has done an exceptional job, although we can obviously be critical of the choice of societies and the pace. Last week, we were told you were going to receive samples. Have you received these samples? Have you been able to test them? What are the results? In addition, 18 million masks to 5 grams mask, that makes 75 tons of masks. It is therefore expected that there will be several deliveries. Have you thought of successive deliveries? Minister, you have done your best. I wanted to congratulate the army on its work and to convey these congratulations to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u15	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt addressed me in his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u16	Mr Freilich, I suggest that you keep your response to your reply. This is the best way to organise the work in an orderly manner. I shall give the floor to the Minister first. You can include any comments you might have mentioned in your reply. I think this is the best way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u17	Mr President, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u18	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u19	Mr President, first of all I would like to apologize to the members of the committee for my absence this morning because, as you pointed out, I was a member of the CNS. Thank you for agreeing to move the committee. I am pleased to be able to answer the various questions. I would also like to thank the Defence representatives who have already answered a series of questions on the subject before us last week. Mr Creyelman, the mandate given to Defence by the Council of Ministers on 27 April concerns the conclusion of framework agreements for the supply of oral masks of substances by means of a negotiated procedure without prior publication. I can tell you that Defense has contacted over 160 firms. Two thirds of them were Belgian. Budgetary coverage for the federal order is borne by the federal government through the interdepartmental commission and therefore does not fall under Defense's responsibility. Orders from the Communities and the Regions, if any, shall be paid by them. Interest was shown, but no order was placed yet. The masks must be delivered contractually in Peutie, where they will be stored pending their distribution, and this by analogy with the support already provided by the Defense in the context of the fight against the coronavirus. All this is done under the direction of the Task Force Shortages & Testing of Minister De Backer, who is responsible for the reception, storage and distribution of personal protective equipment. Mr Verduyckt, the final contractual delivery date was set on 24 May at midnight. The procedure is currently under way and we have been confirmed that the first million masks will be delivered to Belgium next Friday. The way in which the masks will be distributed, for example through pharmacists, is not yet known. The firm Avrox contacted through the Defence website following the government's communication in the press regarding the relaxation of measures in the fight against the coronavirus. The purchase of textile masks and filters concerns two separate purchases. The filters that were purchased should be placed in the mouth masks that the people themselves have manufactured and not in the masks purchased by the Defense Department. Defense takes on the role of purchasing center for the federal level. It was offered to the Communities and the Regions to use the framework agreement to place orders. Mr Bayet, the Council of Ministers of 27 April asked the Defence to provide a framework contract for the supply of fabric masks for the benefit of the public, which meet a Belgian or equivalent standard, through a negotiated procedure without prior publication, in urgent need. On 28 April, the Defense began its exploration with the Belgian federation of the Creamoda fashion. The aim of the Defence was in fact to put in place a framework contract with a group of Belgian companies, under the coordination of Creamoda, in order to meet as much as possible the needs of domestic suppliers and manufacturers for fabric masks. Unfortunately, this trail had to be abandoned, following the failure of Creamoda to set up a consortium capable of producing an offer as provided for in the Royal Decree on Public Procurement of 18 April 2017. I would like to point out to you that the total capacity advanced by the companies proposed by Creamoda was only 1,200 000 masks for the first two weeks, i.e. one tenth of the quantity requested. As a result, all estimated requirements would be covered by a framework contract for which contract consultation would also be directed to companies outside Creamoda. Prospecting for this framework agreement was also started on 28 April by sending a first market consultation document, for which replies were expected by 12.00 p.m. on 30 April. This document was sent to more than 160 firms, two thirds of which were Belgian firms. It's important to remind him. A second round of prospecting was launched at 11.50 p.m. on 30 April, taking into account the new capabilities to be achieved, due to the inability of Creamoda to introduce an offer, on the one hand, and the updating of the standard on community masks, on the other. This second round of prospecting ended on 2 May at 3:00 p.m. On the basis of the information obtained during the two rounds of prospecting, the contracting authority drafted its specification, which was sent to 41 firms. This list was composed, on the one hand, of firms being, according to the prospect, able to achieve in the short term capacities of more than 250,000 parts per week and, on the other hand, of firms initially proposed by Creamoda, since these firms would no longer have the opportunity to participate in the market following the formation of the group which had failed. The opening of tenders took place on 4 May at 3 p.m. The contract was notified on 5 May to two suppliers: the Belgian company Tweeds & Cottons and the Luxembourg company Avrox. Both contractors are asked to provide the masks by Sunday, May 24 at midnight. A partial delivery of one million masks is planned for the end of the week, as I have already indicated. Avrox submitted all the evidence requested in the selection, in particular with respect to the mandatory grounds for exclusion relating to tax and social debts and the qualitative criterion of references. This also applies to Tweeds & Cottons. According to the Luxembourg Business and Company Register, Avrox has the right to carry out any commercial transaction and any transfer of movable property. Its economic activity includes wholesale and textile trade, as defined under the headings of the statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community. It is therefore not strange that it has entered into this type of market - only on the contrary. This is confirmed by its most recent NAS qualification, which bears the number 46 410 (wholesale and textile trade). The masks must also be delivered to the Barracks of Puisie. The method of distribution has not yet been determined. Several leads are explored. I have mentioned in particular that of a distribution by pharmacies, but nothing is stopped at this stage. We still have a few days to define precisely the organization. Mr Freilich, in the replies to Mr Bayet and Mr Creyelman, I have already mentioned that the Council of Ministers of 27 April 2020 has entrusted Defence with the task of purchasing mouth masks. Defence has sent the prospecting documents to the contacts provided and to the firms that had asked to be contacted. The firms to which the market was granted have made themselves known on the one hand, through the Defence website and, on the other hand, at the request of the firm following the announcement in the press by the government regarding the relaxation of measures in the fight against the coronavirus or after the publicity given to the purchasing procedure in the press. Both firms were previously unknown to the Defense Department. The offer made by Avrox was signed by the delegate director. According to the Luxembourg registre de commerce et des sociétés, Avrox has the right to carry out all commercial transactions as well as transfers of movable property. Its economic activity also concerns the wholesale trade of textiles, as defined in the 'Statistics nomenclature of economic activities in the European Community'. It is therefore not surprising that the firm has registered for this type of contract, quite the contrary. In addition, as a reference, it added the delivery of 1 million masks to another state earlier in 2020. So it's not a P.O. box company. The companies that submitted a tender have all had to prove that they did not fall within one of the exclusion grounds, as mentioned in the Law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement, in particular Articles 67, 68 and 69. These exclusion grounds were also included in the specifications. One of the mandatory grounds for exclusion under Article 67 is money laundering and financing. Article 68 deals more specifically with the grounds for exclusion in relation to tax and social debt. All evidence relating to these exclusion grounds was provided by the two tenderers held. Any negative own funds shall not fall under the exclusion conditions as defined in the 2016 Public Procurement Act. Moreover, Luxembourg firms have no obligation to publish their annual accounts publicly. In the contract documents, the tenderer was asked to submit a statement on the qualitative selection, showing that the tenderer supplied at least 250,000 reusable substances in masks. The companies in custody have both submitted evidence of this. Commercial information under a public contract shall be requested and shall not be made available. In the course of the regular review, tenders were subjected to a technical analysis, as provided for in the specifications. All necessary technical evidence has been provided for the firms concerned, showing that the masks comply with or are equivalent to the NBN standard. In order to carry out the contract, a prior technical inspection shall be provided for in the framework of the first order. This shall be carried out on pilot models to be supplied after the first order, including the necessary certificates or certificates. The products will be subjected to the necessary tests in order to comply with their conformity and/or equivalence to the NBN standard. This prior technical inspection is ongoing for one of the firms. In the event of non-conformity, the first order is automatically cancelled without any right to compensation. Finally, deliveries shall be subject to a full provisional delivery. Supplies which do not comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement or which are not carried out in accordance with the rules of the Art are refused and will be re-exported by the Supplier. Some candidates submitted their proposals too late or incompletely during market prospecting to be taken into account. I repeat, the timing was very tight. The decision of the Council of Ministers was taken on Monday 27 April in the evening and the contracts were awarded on Tuesday evening 5 May, i.e. after eight calendar days. In addition, the public authorities are allowed to determine the number of tenderers themselves in the framework of the negotiated procedure. In view of the urgency of the matter, the number of firms registered to submit a tender for such a negotiated procedure, i.e. 41 firms, is a very large number. Competition has thus been able to play more than enough. Mrs Ponthier, as I have already replied to your colleagues, the masks must be delivered by midnight on Sunday 24 May at the latest. At present, the defence does not have any evidence that the selected firms will not comply with their obligations. As already mentioned, the way in which the distribution of the masks will be done is still under review. In reply to Mr Verduyckt, I pointed out that the purchase of a substance mask and the purchase of filters are two separate purchases. I repeat that the filters we have purchased must be placed in the mouth masks that the people themselves have manufactured and not bought in the masks by the Defense Department. Mr Freilich, the visits to the production plant abroad were asked to minimise the risk to the Belgian Government. The aim is to check whether the selected firms and their suppliers have the capacity to respect the proposed guaranteed delivery schedules. You should know that this is not the rule in public procurement, quite the contrary. The visits took place this week in two of the production facilities, establishing that the installations can process the quantities requested and that the working conditions are very good. No instructional reports will be drawn up on these visits, as such visits are not the rule. All candidates who were registered had to submit a tender that met the proposed standard NBN. No samples had to be tested for the award, this is only foreseen after the award. The absence of the Uniform European Procurement Document (UEA) in the tender automatically leads to the non-selection of the tenderer. The company Avrox submitted this document in good time and in full. For Belgian firms, the effective documents in support of the compulsory exclusion grounds and the grounds for exclusion related to tax and social debt can be obtained digitally by the contracting authority via Telemarc. For foreign firms, these documents should be requested. This usually takes a few days, which explains that the award of the contract to Avrox sa had to be made on the basis of the UEA in view of the urgency. After the conclusion of the contract, the company provided the necessary certificates in support of the compulsory grounds for exclusion and the grounds for exclusion relating to tax and social debts. As mentioned above, the prior technical inspection is ongoing for one of the firms. The tests carried out are in conformity with or equivalent to the test provided for in the NBN standard. According to the specifications, the mask itself must be sufficient or equivalent to the determination of the NBN standard. As I have just replied to Mr Verduyckt and Mrs Ponthier, the purchases of the substances are mouth masks and those of the filters are two separate purchases. The filters should be placed in the mouth masks that the people themselves have manufactured, not purchased in the masks by the Defense Department. I hope this is clear now. Mr Delvaux, I have already mentioned in my reply to Mr Verduyckt and Mrs Ponthier that the way in which and by whom the distribution of masks will take place is still under review. Mr Buysrogge, for your first questions I refer to the answer to Mr Delvaux and Mr Verduyckt. The price of this distribution is therefore not yet known. The masks that will not be distributed in a first phase will be stored in Peutie, until a final storage facility is known, pending further distribution, if necessary. Further orders will only be placed if necessary. Since the framework agreement is also open to any orders by the Communities and the Regions, all prime ministers were registered. Recently, the DOD placed the order for a test device, namely on 4 May. This device will be delivered to the Defense Laboratory by May 27th. Mrs. Song, two companies were therefore retained for the supply of masks, you understand. In particular, a Belgian company for the delivery of three million masks and a Luxembourg company for the delivery of fifteen million masks. The contract for the delivery of the masks is under way. The first delivery will take place at the end of this week. This will be a million masks delivered by the Belgian firm. I would remind you that all deliveries must be made by 24 May at the latest. It is important to recall that no financial transactions have been executed to date, either for Avrox or for Tweeds & Cottons. Both companies must first deliver masks that meet the criteria before they are paid. I insist on this aspect. It is also important to recall that 160 companies were contacted by the Defense during the market prospecting phase and that two thirds of these companies were Belgian. Avrox and Tweeds & Cottons were the only companies that could provide the required amount of masks within the required time frame. Mrs Moscufo, I can only confirm what has been said before. I'm not going to call back the different dates. I also recalled that the filters were used to support the many artisanal masks made by good will but that are not able to guarantee the necessary quality and efficiency. It was in this context that the filters were ordered. I have also responded to your colleagues: the final delivery is scheduled for 24 May at midnight, all of which is delivered to Puisie. For the delivery process, this will go through different channels, under consideration at the moment, including the pharmacy sector. Mr Verduyckt, a market consultation or a market prospect will examine the possibilities offered by the market. This is not an application for a tender, and the parties concerned are not related to anything. The piste to work with the firms under Creamoda had to be abandoned because the firms were unable to deliver the requested quantity within the proposed time limit. The maximum capacity for May was 1.2 million masks or less than a tenth of the quantity requested. I answered for the various elements related to Avrox and its situation with regard to Luxembourg law. I have also pointed out, and I would point out from the information circulating in the press, that the masks are or will be tested in advance for validation. Mr De Vriendt, the cost of the masks is 2.50 euros each, without VAT, including delivery in Peutie. The team responsible for the realisation of the contract thoroughly analysed the tender submitted. The objective was a framework agreement to achieve the maximum possible delivery capacity in the shortest possible delivery period. The team worked day and night to get the offer as soon as possible, as the demand for masks in the world is very high. Every lost day increases the risk of the unavailability of masks. With regard to your question about the Luxembourg company's screening, I would refer you to the answer I gave to your colleague, Mr Verduyckt. I think I have given you the most complete answer possible. However, I would like to remind you in a few words of the essence of my remarks. Indeed, while it is important that questions can be asked in the context of Parliament's democratic exercise – I am not the one who will tell you the opposite since I had the honour of chairing the Committee on Justice for five years and as chairman I thought it was quite normal that all questions could be asked – it is also necessary, after the answers have been given, to report them. In the case we are dealing with, if we summarize them, they are quite simple. The Council of Ministers instructed the Defence to launch a market for the acquisition of masks. This decision fell on April 27th. We consulted with Creamoda and Belgian companies to make the best possible use of competition. We had an imperative to allow the 11 500 000 Belgians to have a fabric mask as quickly as possible. The so-called NBN standard that has been applied in this market comes from the SPF Economy. It came relatively late, but we were able to integrate it into the market, which is why we re-launched a second consultation, with the aim of putting everyone on an equal footing. We have given priority to speed. Unfortunately, I have no doubt that, in the context of the evolution of the crisis, further orders for fabric masks will have to be placed, regardless of the responsible authorities. Perhaps at that time, as the amount of masks needed is smaller, Belgian companies will be able, as has already been the case in other markets, to respond to price demands. You know, like me, that municipalities have entered into contracts and in some cases they have been able to use Belgian companies because the necessary quantities were limited. As you can see from the tables, given the quantity required, it was not possible to follow up on companies which could not at least announce the delivery per week, from the end of the first week of the contract or at the end of two weeks, of the required capacities, namely 250,000 masks or, in any case, a sufficient quantity, as is the case here. I have read a lot, much heard about the Luxembourg society in question. As far as the social object of the company is concerned, if you have the ability to read all the social object, you will read that this company does not have the sole purpose of selling or buying cars. I have no doubt that you want to make all the transparency on this social object. You will find, when reading the statutes of this company, that its social object is very broad and that it allows it to subscribe to the operation to which it has subscribed here. This is an important element that we must be able to relate. I can understand that when you are told that we have made a deal with a company that sells cars, you find that a little surprising. But you have to read the whole social object. This makes it possible to have the most complete clarity on the situation. I have no doubt that, like us, you want the operation to work, because behind it there is the will to allow all our Belgians to have a mask as quickly as possible. It's a tense deal. It's a tough deal. It's a market that took a lot of work from our services. You have, for the most part, had the correction to recognize it: the Defence has provided a lot of work to enable a result of this nature. Beyond what I have just said to reassure the public, we must also be able to be proud of the work we do. In addition, we must be careful, in our communication to the outside world, not to attempt systematically to denigrate the operation. A whole series of barriers have been provided for in this contract. Can we assure you 100% that the masks will be delivered on May 24th? I will tell you one thing, which will not surprise you: I wish it. We have done everything we can to ensure that this is the case. But in all communications, whatever they were, whether in the print press or in the television press, I have always had the basic caution to say that we have done everything possible to try to arrive properly within the framework of this order. What I can tell you, certainly, is that our services have worked as precisely as possible in a market which I would remind you is difficult. I thank the Defence for responding to the government's request, which I would remind you, dated April 27. I would like to add one last element to reassure the population. As one of you said, I think it was Mrs Ponthier, we are talking here in Parliament, the place where democracy is being exercised. The press is doing its job, but parliamentarians are doing their job as well. And the official expression of a minister, the official expression of a parliamentarian is given in committee and in plenary session of Parliament. I think it is also important to remember that no mask will be paid if the masks are not compliant. I think we all share the same hope, the same ambition, the same will: that these masks arrive on 24 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u20	Thank you, Minister. I gave you a much longer speaking time for your answer, as you had many detailed questions to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u21	You have answered most of my questions, Minister, and I should like to thank you for that. Once again, I would also like to thank the people of Defense for the work they have done. The question of 1 million, about the masks in the army barracks in Namur, is also not answered by you. I hope you will allow me to regret that. Apparently, the answer to that question is a state secret. Furthermore, I can only conclude that there has not really been a thorough background check and financial check of the two suppliers. I have to admit that I am a little surprised, especially since there are amounts of more than EUR 45 million and some solvency and liquidity are not uninteresting. My final remark is not addressed specifically to you, Minister. I hear many Commissioners here arguing in favour of buying in their own country. I am thinking of the fact that until February of this year, the same people felt that such a plea was a scary, nationalistic process. I will start from the good in man by calling such pleas progressive insight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u22	Minister, thank you for all your answers. Congratulations to you and Defence for all the services that have helped you! Despite the global shortage and the destruction of stocks by the former government, despite the cacophony of the current government, there are masks. It still took four ministers to get them! These masks are sometimes necessary, sometimes not. They are necessary for public transport but not for department stores. We can't find ourselves there anymore, but you've made it. It's a shame I didn't charge the defense much earlier. I think we could have gotten those masks faster. I am very proud to see that our public service, Defence, is there to protect citizens and authorities, while under the former government, the N-VA has been constantly threatening the capabilities of Defence. But we can see that fortunately she's here to help us! Secondly, Mr Minister, for the procedure on public procurement, the designation of companies, etc., we obviously trust you. We all know how difficult it is under the current shortage conditions. I also hope that the masks will arrive on 24 May and that you will carry this message within the government, namely that it is more than time to bring back in Belgium the essential productions, as we have already done, via the Regions, Wallonia or Flanders, for surgical masks and hydro-alcoholic gels in particular. Today we realize how complicated it is and how much money we spend abroad, when it could bring our businesses and our workers back to life. Thirdly, on the choice of the mask, if I understand correctly, the design of the masks you buy does not require to put a filter inside. I believe you. If you could send us a technical note that explains all this, it would obviously be very kind of you, even if it's a little complicated. For weeks, the federal government had not been able to provide these masks because of the shortage and destruction of all our strategic stocks. A wide range of Belgian volunteers and companies were therefore asked to produce them at the same time. They were given tutorials saying they had to be made of fabric with a filter inside. Now we're changing formula. This is part of the mask saga and it is not very clear to our fellow citizens. Finally, Minister, I invite you to think carefully about distribution. Via the pharmacists, why not? I would point out, however, that pharmacists have been on the brink since the beginning of this pandemic and fortunately we have them. They are always there to welcome our fellow citizens who are sometimes in distress. They also have a lot of work to do to make up for the lack of masks, gel, etc. It also raises a whole series of questions. If we have to give it to all Belgians, this means that they must have access to the National Register and check the names themselves. We can ask ourselves whether they are really paid for it. As you know, I am the mayor of a small town of 12,500 inhabitants with four pharmacies. How do I get the masks in two days? Do I have to put in police or set up nadar barriers? I think the federal government can also collaborate and work on distribution. You have services. There are of course our factors that are also overwhelmed with all the parcels they have to deliver. There's the army, too. In all municipalities, there may be military personnel who can help the municipalities who are also under pressure because, since the beginning of the crisis, the deficit of the federal government and others has to be addressed. I think that we can share the task and that it is really necessary to work together to find the best solution. Minister, thank you for your answers and your work. I hope that we can have our masks by 24 May 2020 and that they will be distributed quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. Of course, we had to work at a certain speed, because the decision had been taken far too late. Haste and urgency is rarely good, however. I have nothing against the order in itself, because she may be useful, but I do worry about the quality delivered. Mr Creyelman, as far as Belgian companies are concerned, that has nothing to do with nationalist tendencies. Those companies have long been at the disposal of the Belgian government. They had to wait a very long time to hear in a few days that they had to act as one contact person for an order which is subsequently divided up anyway. I understand, therefore, that those involved are disappointed, even though they would have been very difficult on the international market with the huge quantities that had to be ordered. As for the company that is allowed under the statutes to supply mouth masks, that savior of the homeland, we will see what it will be. The company has been given a clear order to deliver mouth masks, with numbers and delivery date. You say, Minister, that you have confidence in this and I hope that it will work out well. After all, we need to get the mouth masks in time and, above all, they must be of good quality. Our people are entitled to that. If a lot of questions are asked here today, this is also due to the fact that there is a file missing a lot of documents. You talk about factories in Hong Kong and Vietnam in the press, and then it is natural that we should ask questions about them. We continue to follow the issue and hope with you that we will soon be able to deliver the mouth masks to our fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u24	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Of course, I would also like to thank the people of Defense for their commitment day and night. Can you clarify whether the members of the Army Procurement and Sales Commission now have access to the entire file, and not just to the specifications and the award report? It was not clear to me from your answer, but I thought I heard that was not possible. If it is possible to look at everything, can you order the services to do so? If that is not the case, is it possible for the Court of Auditors to have full access? I asked you a question about the visit to the factories. You replied that the factories were visited this week. I don't think that's right. After all, you said that last Sunday at RTL. So that's last week. In addition, last Wednesday morning in committee the speakers also noted that the companies had been visited in Vietnam. The award took place Tuesday night around 11:00. So I ask again when the firms were visited. Was that before the award? Is that what happened to other firms? I still haven't understood why the standard was changed during the trial. I understand that there is no definitive standard to date. Finally, I would like to reply to the statements made by Mr De Vriendt, who mentioned me in his speech. It is remarkable that he wishes to devote part of his speaking time to me. That's very nice, but instead of congratulating me on my research on Avrox, it became a low-to-ground attack on my person. I regret that, all the more so because I am here asking what he is so eager to teach others, namely transparency. In my communication ten days ago, I was indeed talking about the contract, which could amount to EUR 200 million, if it turns out that after the purchase of EUR 18 million, a further purchase of EUR 32 million will take place. I'm asking for transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed explanation. You have answered everyone's questions. With regard to storage, it's obvious. We all hope that the delivery date of 24 May will be maintained. However, as far as the distribution is concerned, I remain hungry. You cannot yet give a ruling on the contribution of the Defense Department or on the way in which it works. I hope that it will be clear soon. I don't know who's gonna make the decision either. Will that happen at the level of the Council of Ministers? That remains unclear, and I regret that a little. However, you have answered all the other questions in great detail, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers. I understand that it is still a little early to clarify how the distribution will proceed, but I hope that there will be clarity soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u27	Minister, I would like to thank you and Defence for the comprehensive way in which we have now been presented here. It is our right to ask questions, either in the Army Procurement Committee or in this committee. It is only logical that there are questions and that questions are stirred up by the fact that an incomplete file has been submitted to us for inspection. I hope that at the next meeting of the Committee on Army Procurement, if I am not mistaken, we will be able to discuss the whole dossier next week. Minister, I hear you and many other colleagues hope that the masks will be delivered effectively on 24 May. I was hoping for more hard guarantees. Hopefully there will indeed soon be very strong guarantees that they will be delivered effectively. In connection with the further spread of the population, I'm trying to derive from your answer that you don't see any role for the Defense Department. Furthermore, I think I can draw your attention to the fact that at the moment you do not see a role for local authorities, but that the distribution of mouth masks through the pharmacies is being considered. I think it is important, whatever the slopes that will be followed, that there will be clarity, so that local authorities know what to add and so that pharmacists know what to expect. Then people, groups, associations and institutions can organise themselves in a proper way. I assume it's not an order for you to look into that, but I address you as a member of the government. Please communicate with the relevant authorities, organisations and sectors in advance how and under what conditions the mouth masks will be distributed. Finally, you answer the question about the creation of a stock that, provided a framework contract is concluded, as we do here, one can easily take away mouth masks based on the existing need at that time. Do I have to deduce from this that it is the intention to work with a framework contract so that strategic stocks are no longer needed? Is that the way problems are solved, namely by decreasing mouth masks from suppliers at the time we need them? Or is there still a strategic stock being built? I would like more clarification on this in the near future, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u28	Minister, you have answered all my questions with precision and I thank you for that. Your answer was able to enlighten us and reassure us on the current market. I want to trust you, and I hope we can get the masks by the 24th of May. I also hope that we will have quality masks and that distribution will be optimal. As far as distribution is concerned, we do not yet have all the information. I think, like my colleague Bayet, that we need to think now about how this distribution can be carried out. You mentioned the pharmacy trail. I'm not sure it's the only lead. Our public services have resources, staff, logistical and organisational skills and would be able to organise an optimal distribution, without having to ask local authorities or pharmacists, who are already pressed like lemons with this crisis. I am counting on you to share our thoughts with other ministers, including the task force of Minister De Backer, who will probably be leading the work with you. I almost wanted to applaud you after your speech because, once again, you gave us a lot of information and you were clear and precise. You answered 95% of the questions, which is not the case for all ministers in this government. We must also be able to thank you for taking the trouble to be here this afternoon, after long hours of meeting this morning, to answer our questions in this way. It's an important file, it's a drag file, it's a real saga! It took the Defence to get involved in order to finally get masks for all citizens. I regret that the Defence has not been asked to assist earlier in the fight against the spread of the virus. In fact, once again, the efficiency and speed of our military personnel are demonstrated – as are our Defence's capabilities to respond optimally to emergencies like this one. I want to say thank you, minister, but also thank you to the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will make some reflections on the question of filters and masks. I would like to tell you that there is a large majority of parliamentarians, as well as a majority of the population, who are surprised that the question of filters is not linked to the issue of masks. This deserves your consideration, in a collective manner with the government, of the communication on this subject. It is not enough just to say the same thing three times: what we have heard in the last committee, what you have said to the press and what you are saying again here. It's a first thing. Secondly, you did not answer the following question. What is the date on which the population will receive these masks? Somewhere, I understand you don't know how to give it, because you don't have this ambitious distribution plan. You say it's still under study. At the same time, you yourself said that we had decided to order the masks on April 27. Since that date, there is still no ambitious plan for distribution and we are on 13 May. You also have no answer to this question: how long will the control take? For distribution, you're referring to pharmacies. I can hear you. I have no concrete experience of how to distribute masks to 11 million people as quickly as possible, and I will therefore remain modest. But we have echoes from the Defence staff. An in-house reflection was reportedly conducted with staff willing to lend a hand. In addition, many municipalities have had positive experiences with the distribution of masks by volunteers. I think it is worth drawing also on the positive experiences that have been experienced. I would also be interested in the fact sheet that explains why we don't need filters in these masks. You also did not give me the reason why you were given the task of ordering them, whereas in principle it is the responsibility of Minister Geens. The purpose of my question is to understand the reason, not to question this choice, since the operation took place relatively quickly as soon as it was entrusted to the Defence. If I understand correctly, it is Mrs Muylle who is responsible for the filters, while Mr Geens has to order them. You didn't answer me about that either. Finally, I would like to stress the need to know when the people will receive the masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u30	Minister, you have answered almost all of my questions and concerns. You have said some significant things, for example the reduction in the production capacity of Belgian companies, which I think is a very important element. We regret this limitation, because we too believe that there should be a strategic production capacity in our own country. But it's what it is now. Rapid delivery of a sufficient number against the deadline is more important in this respect. Colleagues, we have not been given any indication from the Minister's reply of possible mistakes by the Defence Department. Of course, as a Member of Parliament, we must always be critical, but we must also recognise that there are really few grounds to throw around accusations and loose claims. That does not mean, however, that there are firm guarantees, and I am happy to hear you say it, Mr Buysrogge, about the delivery of these mouth masks. Hard guarantees are impossible, because the masks are not made in the minister's cabinet. We have a very difficult market. So we have no indication of any mistakes by the Defense Department, but that does not imply any guarantee. I hope that all Members will share the hope that these masks will be delivered by 24 May. Allow me to close by noticing that Defense doesn't get in the media that often. Now Defence has been given an important role in the medical support of the current crisis. I am therefore truly sorry that N-VA, by a certain way of opposition, completely misses the ball in this file. That's been happening for the second week in a row. We are also an opposition party with Ecolo-Green, but we are trying to do politics correctly. We are listening to the Minister's answers. We also have questions and concerns, of course. If at some point there is no indication that mistakes have been made, what is the point and what form of responsibility of a politician is it still to spread these accusations in the press and to blackmail the Defense Department in that way? This is happening at a time when the defence forces certainly still need the support of the parliament and of the Members of Parliament across party boundaries. I agree with what Mrs Chanson and Mr Vicaire have just said. We welcome the efforts made by the Defense Department here. It proves that it can be a performing organisation, which is confidence-building for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u31	Mr De Vriendt, I would like to thank you, but I do not want to fall out of my role as President. I give the floor to Mr Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u32	Mr President, I too would like to make it clear to you that my last name is 'Mehdi', which is not bad in itself. I agree with the questions put by all Members. Transparency is very important. When it comes to such a large purchase and a significant amount, it is not illogical for questions to be asked, in order to know why the choice is made for a particular company and also when we can expect the delivery of those mouth masks to us. The most important thing, however, is and will continue to be that we get those mouth masks. Whether they come from Belgium, Luxembourg or Madagascar, I do not care much. The only thing that interests me is that the mouth masks, in cooperation with the people of Defense, who work every day, get to us as quickly as possible. I'm glad to hear that delivery of one million mouth masks will be there by Friday. Minister, I hope that you will also do everything you can to follow up the dossier every day and to ensure that we will hopefully have all the mouth masks by 24 May. I would like to touch one more element in this debate. I am young, and so one might think naive, but I still believe in debate hygiene. I get a little nervous when I hear people saying things that I know they know are lies. We all know that Minister None's filters are there for homemade masks. The fact that there are still colleagues asking why the mouth masks ordered by the Defense Department are not compatible with the filters of Minister Geens does not help the debate hygiene at all. I'd like to ask you not to. I may be naive, but I might be able to help change the world a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u33	Mr President, I do not know whether, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have two minutes or much more. In any case, we are in an unprecedented situation. I did not stay in this debate by masochism. That's not my style at all. But I have to admit, I've heard a lot of things that have already been said. Some of the questions that have been asked had already been answered at the level of the Military Procurement Committee, but there is no deafer than the one who wants to hear. There was a time when our country was known for the Red Devils. Today, we are known for the management of masks. Everyone specializes in masks, from Parliament to local authorities. It is true that there has been a crackdown at some point in time, but I believe that, since this issue was put into the Defence's hands, things have moved forward in a fast, serious, comprehensive, verifiable and transparent manner. I would just like to point out that the minister has responded very comprehensively. But, as Mr Mahdi has just said, the problem is that some people feel that they want to destroy what is being done at all costs. They do not want to see the positive aspects or recognize the difficulty of the situation and the complexity of a case like that. A lot of information has been given. Defense is the one I love. It is the one that ultimately works and is at the disposal of civil society, which is close and available to support other departments and to ensure that things move forward. And in that, we can only congratulate the current Defence Officer. Secondly, it should be recalled that several procedures must be followed in public procurement. If the minister and the defence had not done so, they would have been blamed. I have the impression that some here are on the lookout to identify problems that might arise. I am talking not only about what is being said now, but also about certain remarks published in the press, which are solely dictated by economic interests. It is important that the Minister have responded to the consultation on the consortium of our textile industries. As explained to us in the Military Procurement Committee, they were asked to submit an offer. Unfortunately, these companies have been unable to do so for a variety of reasons – in terms of time and quantity. It is, moreover, particularly unpleasant that, in a television programme broadcast on Sundays, the head of the textile industry federation considered it regrettable that he had not been asked to do so. What, then, would the authorities have been accused of in this case? They were allegedly accused of falling behind. And, who knows, these companies may even have supplied themselves abroad. So the truth also has its rights. It is essential to respect all public procurement procedures. We have had periods when they were called into question. For eight and a half years, I ran the Defense. No complaints were then lodged against any particular case. The previous problems concerned virtually all parties. I am not going to repeat what Mr Bayet said about the distribution. It's a decision that needs to be considered. There are provincial commanders, for example. As Mr Mahdi has said, the masks must reach the inhabitants in the best conditions. I would like to add something else. To accuse diplomatic staff of having informed themselves before taking into consideration companies located in Hong Kong and Vietnam is to accuse them of having taken preventive measures. This is a precautionary measure since we first went to see if they could meet the needs as they were expressed, before saying that they could be appropriate. If it had not been done and problems had arisen, it would have been said that it would have been necessary to inquire before doing so. The political difficulty lies in the fact that when you say something, you are criticized, when you say nothing, you are criticized; when you do something, you are criticized, when you do nothing, you are criticized; when you are present, you are criticized, and when you are absent, you are also criticized. In this case, the decisions that were made were to say that action was needed, and to be present. I believe that there is no criticism of the policy that has been chosen. Besides, I want everything we want. At some point, however, in this Parliament, we will have to realise that there are specificities. There is a Military Operations Monitoring Commission; there is a Military Procurement Commission. We know why they were created. If the members of the committees wish to have access to all the documents, I ask that they be given security clearances. Indeed, today, whether it is in the field of monitoring military operations, whether it is in the field of military procurement, and when the lives of military personnel may be at stake, there are leaks in the press which are detrimental to the Defence as such, but also to the whole sector. The files may be opened, but provided that the persons who have access to them are provided with security clearances and that they undertake to comply with the relevant legal provisions. The minister cannot say anything he wants, if the people in front of him do not have these authorizations. And then he'll be blamed for not giving all the information. The same questions about masks may be asked next week at the Military Procurement Committee meeting. This may also be the case tomorrow in plenary. It ends up being tiresome, creating an anxiety climate and giving a borderline image of our country, while a series of decisions have been taken. Let us now hope that they will be followed by positive results! As some of you have said, the department owner has done his job very correctly. Follow-up will now be required. I will conclude my speech by congratulating, like all the members here, the Defence personnel who responded quickly, effectively and efficiently. That's what I meant. I don't get mad, but finally, twice, it's a lot!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u34	The topical and urgent debate has now been concluded. I have been somewhat wider in the speaking time allocated, but I believe that the debate could bear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u35	Mr. Secretary of State, for years, the Defense Department has been suffering from a shortage of medical personnel. Too few graduate doctors opt for a military career and for the many doctors, dentists, specialists, vets and pharmacists working at Defense offers the civilian world more financially interesting opportunities. The status of the medical technical corps has been considerably improved in recent years. At the Ministerial Council of 11 October 2019, a proposal was adopted by your predecessor, Minister Reynders, which will make further adjustments to the status of medical officers in 2006. We are told that it would entail a revaluation of the discipline, an increase in attractiveness and an optimization of the efficiency for the individual and the organization. The proposal was sent to the Council of State, but did not yet find its way to the banks of our committee, hence the following questions. What is the current state of affairs in the file? What budgetary implications will your adjustments entail for increasing attractiveness? Is there any advice from the Treasury Inspectorate? The average age in the current medical corps is quite high. Improving, or rather changing, the conditions for attracting young people will have an impact on the current group. Is sufficient transitional measures provided for to avoid a brain drain of older generations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u36	Mr Buysrogge, with regard to the preliminary draft law which provides for the amendment of the existing law of 20 June which has not been implemented to date, an opinion was received from the Council of State on 12 November 2019. The preliminary draft should be submitted to the Council of Ministers a second time after the Council of State has given its opinion. Two royal decrees on the one hand administrative status and on the other hand financial status will give effect to the law. The two draft royal decrees were delivered to the Inspector of Finance for an opinion in October 2019. With this statute, the Defence Department aims to re-evaluate the field of medical engineering, to increase the attractiveness of the field of medical engineering and to optimise efficiency, both in the area of the individual and in the area of Defense. There is now an opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate. That opinion contains budgetary estimates, without logically taking into account the estimates of 2019 and 2020. The budgetary estimate of gross amounts indexed is EUR 4.4 million in 2019, EUR 4.9 million in 2020, EUR 5.9 million in 2021, EUR 6 million in 2022 and EUR 6.8 million in 2023. The law on the status of the medical technical corps, which entered into force on 20 June, does not provide for any transitional measures specific to older generations. The preliminary draft law, which serves as the basis for implementing acts, merely aims to bring into force the law of 20 June in accordance with the current terminology and regulation used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u37	Minister, this has been dragging on for a long time and I hope that it can now come to this committee for further discussion. I look forward to handling it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u38	Minister, in this crisis, the Medical Component of Defence is once again proving its usefulness and receiving praise for its professionalism. It would be very unfortunate if, at this very time when an extra effort is expected from these people, problems would arise with their compensation. Since 2001, several military personnel performing a paramedical function have received a betting complement and a critical medical allowance (KTG). Since two months, however, a hundred nurses would no longer receive them, reportedly due to the absence of a member of the administration due to illness. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about this. Firstly, can you confirm that there is a problem with the correct payout of wages and supplements to the staff of the military hospital? Secondly, if that is the case, what action will the Defence Department take to ensure, on the one hand, that the outstanding funds are properly paid and, on the other hand, to prevent such defects in the future? Thirdly, defects in the payout of wages due to a possible understaffing of the administration were revealed by the CHOD in September as well. What efforts have already been made to strengthen the service?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u39	Mr President, the central payroll administration was only notified by the Queen Astrid Military Hospital last week of a local staff problem caused by illness since the beginning of this year. Following this, mutual agreements were made with the Administration and Logistics Board of the MHKA in order to initiate a procedure in order to be able in the future to interpret the recurring monthly benefits in a timely manner and to pay them to the right holders. This means that a first payout will take place on 8 May and a second on 28 May. These monthly benefits will now be paid at the end of the month, together with the betting. Work is being carried out on a continuous basis to reduce processing times and to minimise the intervention of different services. The HRM Defence information system will soon be implemented, which will automatically calculate a large part of the pecuniary rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u40	Thank you for that answer. It wasn't the first time this happened. We're living in sensitive times right now. We expect a lot from the Medical Component of Defense. We should really be able to avoid such things. I understand from your answer that there is now a procedure to prevent this from happening in the future. I hope that this procedure will be followed rigorously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I would like to confirm to you all the good I think of you, in the same way as my colleague Mr André Flahaux. That is to be emphasized. I wanted to ask you about the Royal Army Museum. Following the press conference of the National Security Council, this is even more topical than I thought when I put this question to you. Like other museums in our kingdom, the Royal Army Museum and other places of history and memory, managed by the Defence, are now closed as part of the measures taken to combat the VOCID-19. Minister, as the entrance to the Royal Army Museum has been paid under the previous legislature, do you already have an estimate of the loss of profits for the museum as a result of this closure? Do you have a budget or specific measures to allow the museum and other sites not to be too affected by this budget loss? Finally, and here we are really in the news, when a re-opening can be organised as part of the de-opening, what measures will be taken by your services to ensure the safety of staff and visitors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u42	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, this issue is indeed relevant following the meeting of the National Security Council and the decisions that have been communicated. The loss of profits on the Royal Army Museum site would be around 130,000 euros. It is also necessary to add to this certain loss of profits a potential loss of profits. At present, it is difficult to comment on this issue, but it seems likely that the Royal Army Museum will experience a decline in attendance from its usual level for several more months, unfortunately. At this stage, losses incurred by the War Heritage Institute (WHI) can be offset by reduced staff and operating costs during the same period. In addition, on March 20, the Council of Ministers decided that federal scientific institutions have the opportunity to use their reserves to deal with the loss of profits associated with the closure of activities due to VOCID-19. In order to ensure the safety of staff and visitors, the WHI will implement all the measures that the National Security Council will impose and impose for the reopening of museums. In addition, it was decided to reopen only certain WHI sites on 19 May, provided that date was confirmed, which is the case. The McAuliffe cellar in Bastogne, Bastogne Barracks, the Kemmelberg and the Brasschaat site are closed because of their modest size, which makes social distancing impossible. Due to their large area of visitable space, the other sites will open while ensuring a maximum number of visitors to the buildings. The wearing of the mask for visitors will be made mandatory at the sites and the hydro-alcoholic gel will be made available to both staff and visitors. In addition, posters reminding of social distancing, wearing the mask, using the gel and other effective reflexes to fight the virus will be displayed on the various websites as well as on the websites. In conclusion, the safety of both staff and visitors is at the centre of our concerns and those of WHI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u43	Minister, I did not hear you for 30 seconds, but I retained the lead. You gave an estimate of the losses and you said that you could compensate for them thanks to staff savings and that the federal scientific institutions – and therefore the Army Museum – can draw on their reserves if necessary. This is new and interesting information. Thank you for the quality of the answer. It is an important museum for the duty of memory and too often abandoned. I am attached to it not only because I did an internship for a year at the end of my history studies, but also because it is a monument and a memory tool at the service of our democracy so that what we experienced yesterday does not happen again. Precautionary measures (social distance, wearing masks, freezing) are actions that must become usual and you introduce them. I am pleased with your answer and I am pleased to see this museum reopen, like other scientific and cultural institutions in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u44	Mr Lacroix, I can also tell you that the Minister was very clear in the Chamber all the time. So you will be able to read the full answer in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u45	Mr Dallemagne is not here. Consequently, his question No 1 lapses. 55005662C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u46	We've already talked about the operation OVG. The Minister had already announced that this would be phased out. There is no sign of that today. I'd like to get an update on that. Mr De Crem said on Monday in committee that there is no question of it for the time being, as long as the OCAD says that the threat analysis is not being reviewed. What are the consequences of the corona crisis on the presence of soldiers in the streets?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u47	Minister, you announced at the end of last year that a phasing-out plan for the Vigilant Guardian operation would be under way. This operation includes the surveillance of sensitive sites in their own country and thus supports the federal police. Following a follow-up question at the end of January, you reported that the number of soldiers would remain the same, but that the police would be able to carry out the security of the sites themselves from September 2020. Then, in an exchange of views on the corona crisis, you replied that defence currently had different priorities than the implementation of the phasing-out plan. As Mr Verduyckt says, your fellow Minister for the Interior, Pieter De Crem, replied to my written question that a phasing-out plan would be difficult for a government in current cases. All things considered, the situation is different at the moment, but it was again decided last week that there was no phasing-out plan, at least for the time being. I would therefore like to ask you about the state of progress of the phasing-out plan. In the meantime, has there been an overall agreement on phasing-out? That's what they were waiting for back then. Do you think that the date of September 2020 can be kept? If no, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I agree with colleagues. I was very pleased when I heard at the end of last year that you were planning to completely abolish the OVG. It is wise for a Defence Minister to think of Defence and take into account the fact that our army needs to be properly trained and deployed and that it can maintain the international reputation it has and still has. I am very interested in the way in which you hope to achieve this. There was talk of September. September is not so far off, hence my additional question as to how you are already facilitating the transfer between the military and the police. What steps have already been taken and what will be taken to achieve by September that what was a temporary appointment will also remain temporary, something everyone hopes for in the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u49	Mr President, the plan negotiated between the Federal Police and Defence provided for a first phase, after almost five years, in a gradual and progressive take-back of the security mission by the federal police, so that from December 2019, another 200 soldiers deployed and a rapidly deployable reserve of 100 soldiers would be needed to support the integrated police. The Commissioner-General of the Federal Police has proposed a withdrawal plan in the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security. As of September 2020, the police will be able to carry out the security themselves, except on the nuclear site in Flanders. For the sake of COVID-19, many schools, religious buildings, museums and international institutions have been closed, thus strengthening the federal police with a modified operative. Despite the very low number of passengers, the federal police decided to deploy Defense in the trains and subway station during the crisis. The total cost of the operation between January 2015 and July 2020 is EUR 206.3 million, including the wages of the military deployed. I'll give you an overview per year: 2015: 18.3 million euros, 2016: 64.5 million euros, 2017: 55.8 million euros, 2018: 33 million euros, 2019: 25.4 million euros, 2020 to 2 June: 9.3 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you know our position. We increasingly feel that the dossier is becoming a symbolic dossier. What is necessary is necessary and what is not necessary is not necessary. You have replied that you will terminate the operation. We'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u51	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. You stick to the answer you gave at the beginning of 2020, namely that you will keep the phasing-out date of September 2020. However, the logic, not to finish at the moment, escapes me, quite frankly, given the circumstances you have cited and the lesser need for security of a number of sites. That logic escapes me, as I have already indicated. I hope that you will soon be able to get your Home Affairs colleague on board and work effectively on the phasing-out plan, so that by September 2020 everything will go as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I don't care about the cost of the OVG. We have to do what we have to do. When military forces need to be deployed to ensure security, which has been the case for a certain period of time, we must do so. But it was a temporary operation, which has been going on for five and a half years. Should I say for five and a half years that I love a temporary one, my friends would suggest that it is not really temporary, that my love would become a temporary one very quickly and that it would come true. In the case in question, therefore, temporaryness may be proven. I am also pleased that you do not return to the words you spoke not so long ago, in particular that there is a phasing-out plan and that by September 2020 we will hopefully be able to look forward to an extinction of the OVG. I understand there's trouble. It is an effective symbol file. It's not easy to say goodbye to an operation that's been going on for so long. However, you are Secretary of Defense. I am therefore counting on you, in particular, in your capacity as Minister of Defence, to think in the interests of Defence and of our army and to ensure that those military forces, who have once taken the decision to join Defence, can do the tasks for which Defence should work. I also hope that we will be able to maintain the reputation of our army, which it has, I repeat, internationally. That will only be possible if, in addition to the necessary resources to be invested in the defence sector, we ensure that this operation is extinguished as soon as possible. So I look forward to September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u53	Mr Mahdi, life is even temporary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u54	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Question No 55, by Mr Francken (H-0550/92) 55006024C and 55006025C by Mr Buysrogge and Questions Mr Freilich's 55006028C and 55006029C were postponed to a later meeting, with their agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u55	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, paramedics are part of the Defence staff. As part of emergency medical assistance, rescue zones may accept military paramedics to carry out training activities for 120 hours per year on working days from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. in the 112 service of the zone. This is formalized by the signing of an agreement, signed between the rescue zone, the Defence and a training supervisor. Minister, to date, what relief areas have signed such an agreement with Defence? Is this agreement also applicable to military paramedics who are on probation? Is there a defined or maximum number of military ambulance personnel at the disposal of the emergency zone? If a military ambulance attendant takes up hours of training in a rescue zone, can he or she, outside his or her hours of service, provide as a civilian voluntary ambulance for the same rescue zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u56	Mr President, Mr Bombled, to date 34 rescue zones in Belgium have signed a training agreement with the Defence for military paramedics. For paramedics on probation, an agreement has been concluded by place of probation. The number of places is determined by the needs and possibilities of each area. A military ambulance attendant may provide hours as a volunteer ambulance, outside of the hours of training, according to the guidelines applicable to each member.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u57	This convention is very beneficial. The parties are winners in this type of partnership. In addition, this strengthens the links between Defence and civil society and can only strengthen the image of the army. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u58	Mr.President, Minister, during his visit to Florennes Air Base on April 18, 2019, your predecessor, Didier Reynders, mentioned the possibility of providing this infrastructure with a crèche to ensure a better quality of life for the military and civilians she employs. Minister, can you inform me of the follow-up to the project, which was under consideration by the Office Central d'Action Sociale et Culturelle de la Défense (OCASC)?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u59	Mr President, Mr Bombled, as you indicate, the installation of a crèche at the base of Florennes is a possibility mentioned on 18 April 2019 by my predecessor, Didier Reynders. In principle, I am in no way opposed to it. However, this file needs to be examined in the broader context of the attractiveness of Defence work and retention of staff. In other words, it is not a matter of covering a limited need at the base of Florennes. The first step is to identify similar needs in other military quarters and then to identify where solutions can be found to meet all of these needs. In this area, the financial profitability aspects of a facility to be created are not absolutely decisive elements but must also be taken into account in the analysis. In the concrete case of the Florennes base, it appeared that opening a crèche would require an investment in infrastructure and would lead to a substantial increase in the subsidy of the OCASC. It is also useful to know that, in the broader context I have just mentioned, a working group is examining how to optimize existing benefits and what new benefits could be provided to Defence personnel. The "young children" component is part of these benefits. This can be achieved in several ways: crèches d'entreprises, local partnerships or the provision of financial resources to the staff concerned. That's why I asked for a joint study of the OCASC and the Defence Staff before taking a more specific direction. I will be able to give you more details when the first results of this joint study are presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll wait for the results of the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u61	Mr Minister, I would like to make a link in this committee today between the current situation of this week and the current and imminent shortage of personnel within Defence. A crisis makes some sectors grow, but others, unfortunately, collapse completely. Today, the corona crisis has also hit the aviation sector hard. Minister, is there currently a proactive view within Defense of how job losses in certain sectors due to the corona crisis can compensate for the HR deficit, which will be dramatic in a few years' time? If flow from the aviation sector would be possible, how exactly will it work? Will anything legally have to change the military status? Will a flexible recruitment programme be launched, perhaps adapted to the corona era? Are there already existing initiatives that Defence can learn from? Does Defence look, for example, at other countries, where there are perhaps best practices due to acute shortages?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u62	Mr President, Mr Delvaux, the corona crisis forced us, like other companies, to suspend our recruitment and selection activities. On 11 May 2020, we re-launched and the available capacity will be used as a priority to carry out the planned recruitment and selection activities of the framework, officers and petty officers. Later this year, priority will be given to the recruitment of volunteers. The recruitment of persons from the aviation sector will be further studied, but other affected sectors are likely to be eligible for this. The status of the reserve military already offers possibilities in its present form, but requires further study. Defence takes into account information made available by neighbouring countries and other companies, but for the time being no best practices have been identified that can be taken over. Consultation with the trade unions shall be carried out on a regular basis, in accordance with the working methods envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that a study is being started, and that is actually a positive one. If people lose their jobs because of the corona crisis, hopefully we can employ them in the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u64	Minister, the current pandemic has far-reaching consequences in various conflict zones. On 7 May, De Tijd talks about the revival of IS, with combat operations that reach a level that was not seen for a long time. The most worrying elements in this article were the attempts to rebuild old smuggling routes and financing. Reactivation of sleeper cells, the restoration of this organisation and the increased terrorist threat associated with it are part of a pronounced worst case scenario. Are steps currently being taken within NATO to deal with this threat and to prevent a recovery of the caliphate? Given the difficult relationship between the Iraqi government and the US, can Europe play a central role in the fight against IS? Can our country play a crucial role in Iraq, given the excellent reputation of our Belgian Air Force? Are there any plans to increase our coalition engagement against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u65	Mr Delvaux, NATO does not play a direct role in the fight against Daesh, but an advisory role for the Iraqi armed forces fighting the battle. The international coalition against Daesh is still active in Iraq and Syria. COVID-19 causes a break in training activities in support of the Iraqi security services. In these circumstances, the Iraqi security services continue to operate autonomously against Daesh. Nevertheless, there is currently a higher intensity in Deash's actions in Iraq. This phenomenon deserves our attention. The results achieved in the battle against Daesh are too precious to be lost. The Secretary-General of NATO has confirmed to the new Prime Minister of Iraq, Mr Al-Khadimi, that the alliance is ready to continue the development of cooperation with Iraq. Mr Al-Khadimi stressed the importance of strengthening cooperation with NATO in the fight against terrorism. Following the recent successful government formation in Iraq, the way is open for international consultation with the new Iraqi government. The US announced a strategic dialogue for mid-June. In order to shape this dialogue as a member of the coalition against Daesh, the EU is taking part in the fight against this terrorist organisation. The situation on the ground confirms once again that the fight against Daesh has not been fought and that the pressure on Daesh must remain high in order to prevent a flare-up. Our country can also play a role in this and strengthen its contribution to the coalition. The renewed deployment of the detachment with F-16s will be submitted for political approval shortly. Parliament will also be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That's more than enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-13-55-commissie-ic177x.u67	I thank the Minister for being here after a busy day.
