ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u1	Equal pay for equal work. Everyone has heard of it and we all know that a lot of politicians have worked on it over the past few decades, both at European and Belgian level. However, the average wage of men and women is not the same today, despite the steps taken. According to the 2019 pay gap report of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, a Belgian woman still earns 9.6 % less per hour of work today than a man. We all know that you, as a minister, are taking a lot of steps here, but I would like to emphasise this once again. On an annual basis, the difference between a man's wage and that of a woman is 23.7%. The numbers are alarming. Madam Minister, do you agree with me that the pay gap is a mockery of the talent and commitment of women to the labour market? How do you intend to engage in the fight under your authority as Minister of Equal Opportunities? What steps will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u2	Thank you for both questions. The pay gap between women and men decreases with each measurement. Although Belgium is among the best pupils in Europe, the pay gap must be completely eliminated. Indeed, in 2017, the difference was 23.7 % or a small decrease compared to the previous 24.5 %. These are the latest figures and these are based on gross annual wages. If we look at the hourly wage, there is a difference of 9.6 %, or a decrease of 10.9 %. The difference is also caused by the fact that women work part-time very often. Then we need to look at it on an hourly basis. However, it still remains a small 10%, which is a lot. There are also huge differences in the different sectors. In the private sector, the difference is 12.9% on the basis of working time, while in the public sector the difference is 6%. There is also a difference between workers and servants, but also in very specific sectors, such as the aviation sector. That is a very bad sector in terms of the pay gap. The construction sector is, in turn, positive. There's actually a negative pay gap. This is mainly due to the fact that there are few women working in the construction sector who are mainly employed in the servants' statute. The figures must therefore be interpreted in one piece. However, I am convinced that there are still very important steps to be taken. The 2012 pay gap law has provided an important tool for this fight. One of the elements of the law is to ensure the gender neutrality of all job classifications of joint committees. In this way, typically female and typically male tasks can no longer be evaluated differently. That is an important step. It is important to evaluate the pay gap law, not to weaken it, but to make it more efficient and effective. In the context of a number of legislative proposals before us, Parliament has asked the National Labour Council, the FPS Employment and the Institute for Gender Equality to give an opinion on the amendment of the wage gap law. Mr Willaert had a question about the database on pay gap data at company level. It already exists today. Article 4 of the Law obliges undertakings to split the social balance according to sex. The National Bank is also keeping up with this data today, but the mere existence of data is obviously not enough. Making wage gap data accessible to the public at company level aims to achieve increased transparency on the wage structure of companies. It is important that we now await the opinions on the various legislative proposals before us. I therefore hope that, on the basis of these opinions, we will be able to take steps together in the coming period to overcome the pay gap.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u3	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you have responded positively to this and that we will take further steps in the evaluation. It is true that 48% of the pay gap is due to the different positions of women in different sectors, but I think it is important that the 52% which has not yet been explained be examined further and I am very pleased that we can count on your support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u4	Mrs Vindevoghel has to go to another committee and asks if she can put her questions first under item 3. These are a number of combined questions, but apparently they are not all about the same theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u5	Madam Secretary, you were also present at the seminar on feminicide of the Dutch-speaking Women's Council on 14 February, here in the Chamber. You yourself sued the lack of data and data on gender-related violence. The last major investigation, the last good statistics, dating from 2010, you said. What you did not say, however, is that the Institute has repeatedly made it clear that it is unable to carry out new research in the absence of resources. Since 2015, 21% of the budget of the Institute for Gender Equality has been saved. In 2017, a linear saving on staff was added. Hence my simple question. Will you ask Parliament to make additional funds available for new research into gender-based violence? You can ask that perfectly through a parliamentary initiative. If you do not intend to do so, how will you ensure that the Institute is able to re-examine gender-related violence? My second question concerns the National Action Plan. Last week, you announced, even on that day of study, that your administration is working on a new National Action Plan against violence against women. The previous National Action Plan (NAP) ran until the end of 2019. This means that Belgium does not currently have a NAP. Can you confirm that you are preparing a new National Action Plan? How will you involve Parliament in this action plan? Are you counting on a parliamentary initiative to approve that action plan as the current government is in progress? What are the strategic objectives and priorities of the Action Plan? How will civil society and the various women's organisations be involved in drawing up this plan? Will you also listen to the people on the ground and learn lessons from the previous plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u6	You also had a question about the website partnerviolence.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u7	Minister, a minor girl at risk of female genital mutilation in her home country may apply for refugee status from CGRA. Through this, Belgium offers protection and a guarantee to these children: as long as they are under our protection, they will not be subjected to mutilation. They can grow up like any girl of their age without fear for their physical integrity. Previously, because of the principle of family unity, parents could be assimilated to this status but on one condition: to prove regularly, by means of appropriate medical certificates, that the child remains intact. In recent months, however, there have been a number of decisions by which the parents of these girls, recognized by CGRA, are automatically denied refugee and subsidiary protection status if they do not have a personal, distinct and well-founded fear of persecution or if they are not at risk of serious harm. Consequently, they have only one choice: to apply to the Aliens Office in order to submit an application for regularisation on the basis of Article 9a of the Act of 15 December 1980. This procedure is long, costly and uncertain, it plunges the parents of these refugee children – thus "placed under the protection of the Belgian State" – into the anguish of an end to not receiving and imminence of an order to leave the territory. Minister, how will the files of these little girls be managed? How can CGRA seek proof that the children remain intact if their parents are no longer listed while the primary objective is and remains that these girls under our protection have the same opportunities as all young girls of their age? What will happen to these girls if their parents are ordered to leave the territory on the basis of a refusal of a 9bis application for regularization? How do you think you will act to guarantee them the best chances of emancipation, education and development from the moment they become MENA (unaccompanied foreign miner)?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u8	Minister, there are about 23,000 sex workers in Belgium. Two thirds of them would like to be able to leave, but their attempts are mostly failures. Indeed, in Belgium it is easier to get into prostitution than to get out of it. Unequal treatment due to stigmatization, post-traumatic stress experienced by sex workers and often the difficulty of securing sufficient income over the long term are some of the reasons why a person has to stay, or return, in prostitution. It is a vicious circle in which only one in three sex workers succeeds in dissociating themselves from their first attempt. To get out of prostitution and to succeed in re-establishing a place in society are two difficult trials and full of discouraging obstacles. It is therefore essential that the State propose a genuine alternative project to prostitution. To this end, we need to focus on the training of actors on the ground who provide support to sex workers. We must fight the socio-economic constraints that make it so difficult to get out of prostitution. We must simplify the administrative procedures for the social and occupational reintegration of these workers. We have a duty to allow people who wish to change their lives. Minister, as stated by the Nid Movement, which takes care of the accompaniment of people towards the exit from prostitution, this exit is a long and difficult process, which requires political will and a strong commitment at every stage. As France has done, is it not time to put in place a structural policy supporting and guiding the exit from prostitution? Have there been any consultations with the federated entities in this context? What new initiatives could be put on the table? Minister, the issue of prostitution encompasses several actors. Today, I would like to emphasize the existence of one of them still unknown in the context of juvenile prostitution. This is the phenomenon of the loverboys. Behind this pretty name are predators who take advantage of the emotional rope to subdue vulnerable young girls. These overboys make the first contact via social networks or roam near places where young people meet. In this way, they are able to identify fragile, often isolated, adolescent girls who encounter family problems. Loverboys approach them by pretending to be young people in search of love. With compliments, promises and gifts, they manage to create the illusion of a true love story. Little by little, the overboys isolate these young teenagers from their loved ones, creating a situation of emotional and financial dependence. They control them, one day they are aggressive, the next "gentle" and sometimes they encourage them to use drugs. Once dependent, the overboys reveal to them that they have "difficulties" and that they have to repay the costs they have incurred for them. They end up asking them to prostitute themselves, even if the act is never explicitly mentioned. Minister, in 2015, Myria had already drawn our attention to this scourge. In one of its reports, the centre pointed out that the exploitation of the overboy is often poorly detected and evaluated, and that victims may be stigmatized as "problem teens" rather than protected. Five years later, we find that little has been done to address this situation. However, this phenomenon of loverboys is nothing more than the pimping of minors, a crime well enshrined in the Belgian Penal Code. Minister, what means do we have today to combat these new forms of procuring and prostitution of minors? What means do we have to get these teenage girls out of this infernal gear?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u9	Mr President, I will answer the various questions together. In response to Ms. Zanchetta's question, the CGRA policy was changed last April with regard to the weakening of the refugee status derived for the parents of a minor girl at risk of female genital mutilation. The INTACT ASBL has done an analysis that highlights the human difficulties and legal uncertainties that these families may face. INTACT's analysis indicates that parents cannot receive an order to leave the territory, given the ban on separating them from their children. However, they must submit an application for regularization to the Aliens Office. However, I believe that it is necessary that the principle of family unity be maintained, consistent with the guidelines of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). For information on CGRA and the Aliens Office, I refer you to my colleague the Minister for Asylum and Migration, Mrs De Block. With regard to prostitution and loverboys, various factors may explain why people, especially women, find themselves in prostitution: poverty, unemployment, discrimination and violence, social fragility, lack of education and access to resources, conflict situations, etc. According to a survey conducted in France, 51 per cent of prostitutes were physically abused in prostitution and 29 per cent of prostitutes had suicidal thoughts in the 12 months preceding the survey. In addition, 38 per cent of women have been raped in their lifetimes. Research in Belgium also highlights the exposure of prostitutes to violence. This research does demonstrate that it is far more difficult to get out of prostitution than to enter it. A structural policy aimed at accompaniment to those who wish to leave prostitution is necessary. This is an extremely complex phenomenon which involves a concerted approach between multiple policy makers. As Federal Minister for Equal Opportunities, I would like first of all to draw attention to the increased vulnerability of prostitutes to gender-based violence. I also have a special attention to the problem of loverboys. The National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence 2015-2019 included specific measures related to this insidious phenomenon. The National Action Plan to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings 2015-2019 on Minor Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings was developed in August 2018. In particular, it covers the problem of loverboys and takes up initiatives in this area, including the organisation of an operational approach. As part of the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions have made efforts to raise public awareness of gender-based violence, to train professionals, to inform and accompany victims, to prosecute and empower perpetrators. The legislative and regulatory framework has been strengthened. In addition, the multidisciplinary and holistic approach has been developed to improve the protection and safety of victims. This commitment was maintained in 2019, given the means released in March to allow the permanent funding of the three sexual violence centres and the doubling of the number of centres in the future, or the recent pilot project on the mobile 'harassment' alarm, allowing victims to alert the police when they feel threatened by their former partner who harasses them. The interim report on the implementation of the national action plan to combat gender-based violence 2015-2019 was prepared in April 2018. Belgium also submitted a State report in February 2019 on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. These reports provide a comprehensive view of the initiatives that have taken place since the beginning of the legislation. The Institute for Gender Equality is currently working on a draft National Action Plan 2020-2024, in collaboration with federal community and regional administrations involved in combating gender-based violence. This draft for a new NAP is based on the state of play of the NAP 2015-2019 and on the recommendations of civil society. The Institute launched a call to civil society in July 2019, reaching 230 organisations. All gaps and comments were grouped together and answered in the design of the new NAP. In addition, the recommendations resulting from the evaluation reports of the Istanbul Convention were also included by the Council of Europe's Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. In particular, the analysis of the INTACT asbl on gender mainstreaming and gender-based violence in asylum and migration policy is included. Other recommendations relate more specifically to the issue of loverboys. It also includes the recommendations of associations active in the field of support for prostitutes, which, in particular, open the legislative framework to reception facilities, vocational and social reintegration, training of professionals or support for associations. On the basis of this preparatory work, it is intended to conduct political negotiations between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions with a view to the adoption of a NAP 2020-2024. The NAP will have to be approved by a new government. It's up to my successor to propose the new plan. In September, the regional report will also be presented to Parliament with recommendations, after which there will be room for debate. In any case, the federal government's strategy remains focused on further developing the multidisciplinary and holistic approach, a better collection of gender statistics, better training of the professionals involved, greater attention to risk assessment and ensuring better protection for victims. We also want to take more and more account of multiple vulnerabilities and continue to focus on new forms of violence, including cyberbullying, and the approach to better combatting women's murders. The victims and their entourage remain at the centre of our concerns. In particular, our mission is to promote good coordination of stakeholders and mechanisms to ensure a protective and remedial environment for victims and their children. So I come to the questions about the interfederal website partner violence.be. For information, please visit the websites of the federated entities. On the French-speaking side, the website www.ecouteviolencesconjugales.be and on the Dutch-speaking side www.ecouteviolencesconjugales.be. Another part of the information was included on the federal website www.sexualviolence.be. Moreover, the Institute's website also contains a lot of information about partner violence. It was chosen to make the information mainly public through the current regular channels. As far as statistics on violence against women are concerned, I can already tell you that Eurostat has proposed to develop and coordinate, in cooperation with the Member States, a study on gender-based violence at European level. Within the Belgian Statistical Office Statbel, a working group was set up with various representatives, regional statistical authorities and the Institute to study this. The cost is 900,000 euros. The funding should be available from four sources in 2021-2022: the Federal State, the Walloon Region, the Flemish Government and the Brussels Capital Region. After carrying out the research, it is also intended to stimulate further academic research. At present there is financial security from Brussels and Wallonia. The participation of the federal government is guaranteed by my administration and the Institute. Flanders has not yet indicated how much it could contribute, but the talks are continuing and I have every confidence that Justice on the Flemish side will also contribute financially. All agreements in principle must be obtained by the end of February in order to establish the final feasibility of the research. The specifications will continue to be finalised in 2020, so that the research can start at the beginning of 2021. Finally, I would like to point out that we do not have to wait for those figures. In the meantime, it is also important for me to register hate crimes. To this end, my administration organised a workshop at the beginning of this year, very specifically in collaboration with the public prosecutor and the police. The equality bodies also sat at the table to improve that registration. These experts provided the necessary expertise and practical experience. They have drawn up a report and, on the basis of the recommendations made in that report, we will proceed as soon as possible to take steps forward in this area. I note that I have just replied within the speaking time allocated to me. My remaining speaking time is zero seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u10	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You talked about family unity and the importance of it. We know that the best interests of the child are that he or she can grow up surrounded by his or her parents. It is said that the risk of female genital mutilation is already a sufficient fear for these girls. There seems to be no need to add that of having to grow up without the presence of his parents on Belgian territory. I had questioned the Minister of Health, but I wanted to hear your views on the matter. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u11	Madam Minister, on the first issue of prostitution, it is true that the phenomenon is complex and still taboo sometimes today. I think you said, we need a clarification of the status. The clearer the status of the prostitute, the better this issue of exit from prostitution can be considered in a different way. As you have said, but this is not yet enough: alternatives are needed, there is a need for even more communication, training and retraining. We should try to settle all this. In my question, I also asked if there had been any exchanges with the federated entities. I don't think you answered me about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u13	From the action plan. This is already a concrete element. Thank you for your answer. Regarding the overboys, we see today that in 2019 there were 80 cases of prostitution of minors in Belgium. It's not nothing. They are young men and girls between the ages of fourteen and sixteen. The vast majority of prostitution cases come to Child Focus. The victim ran away, or there's a family problem. In any case, it is a scourge and we see that social networks are dangerous. I am very sensitive to this problem among young girls who find themselves caught up by a young man who makes advances and promises things to them. According to the studies carried out in this field, they are often persons weakened by the situation of the parents, the family environment. You pointed it out earlier. I know we're in business, but we need to focus on this issue. I would also like your reply on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u14	Madam Minister, this is a follow-up question to answers you have given earlier. I'd like to get some more details. I don't need to convince you that the stalking alarm is necessary. You also know that 7% of women and 3% of men are followed, stalked or threatened, sometimes leading to the death of an ex-partner, which in many cases could be avoided if earlier and effective intervention is taken. The then competent Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities Zuhal Demir has therefore invested 300,000 euros in a stalking application, in collaboration with the ASTRID service. Your predecessor also announced in 2019 that the pilot project would be launched in Ghent, but at the moment only the fixed alarm is working in Ghent, which has existed since 2002 and is an initiative of the city itself. Your reply to the oral questions by Mr Van Bossuyt and Mr Zanchetta shows that the technical test phase of the mobile alarm could be completed by mid-December. However, due to a number of technical irregularities, development has been much delayed. You also said that the mobile stalking alarm will be rolled out nationally in autumn 2020. Meanwhile, I heard that there would be another delay in Ghent until mid-March, and that there would be another technical problem due to ICT bugs. However, we do not know who has to pay the price. Can you explain more about the technical problems that cause the delay? There would also be problems with the development of the iPhone. How will you solve it? Is there a specific budget for this? What are the differences between the alarm that is now being used in Ghent and the mobile alarm you are developing? How's the co-operation with the police going? How is aid cooperation going? Is there a cooperation with the Flemish Minister for Justice and Enforcement, who is responsible for the chain approach? How do you deal with that? How is cooperation going in Wallonia? How will the roll-out take place in concrete terms? Have you started any conversations with the different cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u15	Mrs Van Peel, the technical irregularities that delayed the launch of the mobile alarm had to do with the development of the app. As long as the stalking alarm was not about to reach 100 %, it was irresponsible to start an operational testing phase by victims. After all, the safety of the victims depends on that alarm. I can tell you today that all irregularities, including the bugs to which you refer and the financial questions that were left, have been eliminated and that the mobile alarm is technically ready. In order to ensure the safety of the victims, ASTRID, which is responsible for developing the stalking alarm, decided not to develop the version of iPhone. This version requires a continuous connection to the internet to be able to launch a stalking call. If there is no internet connection, the mobile alarm is not fully supported and the call of the victim is likely to be lost. That's where the system falls or stands. That would give us a false sense of security, which we want to avoid for understandable reasons. For a basic call via Android no constant internet connection is required. We are currently looking at how we can find solutions for iPhone, but I do not want to wait for them. After all, the parquet, the police and the Family Justice Center decide who we start with. An Android device costs 80 to 100 euros. That cannot be the stumbling block, which would mean that we would have to wait months to help victims. If we are to start with victims, we must be sure that there is an adapted device in place. That's the condition. We can still wait, but I find that irresponsible. The stalking alarm used so far in Ghent is an alarm button installed on fixed telephones. The mobile alarm clearly goes a step further here, with the first major advantage being that it is mobile. Victim's got the alarm on him, wherever he goes or stands. Secondly, cooperation with the police has been increased as the reference officer maintains intra-family violence in direct contact with the victim. If the alarm is pressed, a police patrol is immediately sent to the place, or the victim's residence. Thirdly, a multidisciplinary consultation is linked to the mobile alarm. This ensures the follow-up of both the victim, the perpetrator and possibly the environment and the children. In this context, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has started a process of guidance in order to embed multidisciplinary follow-up as much as possible into existing structures. It goes without saying that I will ensure close cooperation. There has already been consultation with the Flemish colleagues. After all, well-being is also competent. An Inter-Ministerial Conference was also set up where this is on the agenda. I await the pilot phase with victims in Ghent and then it is planned that this will be rolled out on a national basis. For me, it was important that this should be national. Victims can go through the country without fear of their safety, thanks to the alarm. All police zones were informed with a ministerial circular. A protocol for this operational test phase was developed. This was signed by all parties, which was the signal for me to start.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u16	Madam Minister, I respect the fact that you have been so active in this task in the short time that you have had the opportunity to do so. I'm very pleased with what you're saying here. I also welcome the consultation with colleagues in Flemish and French-speaking Belgium. That's important in the complex country we live in. It's good that we're off the bugs, but one thing wasn't clear to me. You say, "I'm gonna keep going, even if it's only on Android." I understand your reasoning, but do you mean I will continue with the test phase, but it is the intention that this can also be done on iPhone afterwards? You're nodding, you just want to do the test phase with what's going on today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u17	(...) Android cannot be the big stumbling block there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u18	Especially for the test phase that is absolutely true. I am very pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u19	Madam Secretary, this is an older question. We have already heard about this. In addition to the existing care centres for victims of sexual violence in Brussels, Ghent and Liège, which have clearly demonstrated their usefulness, additional centres would be established in Antwerp, Leuven and Charleroi. The intention is that in the long term there will be such a centre in every province. You indicated in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee that the budgets for this measure are available, but there is uncertainty as to whether there are still funds available after 2020. Madam Minister, how much money do you have at your disposal for the implementation of these plans by 2020? In what way should it continue in the next few years? Will funds be made available to ensure the operation of both existing centres and the centres to be set up on a permanent basis? For the time being, we do not have a view on the concreteisation of the project. Can you explain more about the timing, among other things?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u20	Mrs Jiroflée, the considerable success of the existing care centres for victims of sexual violence confirmed its need. In order to meet the needs of the many victims, an additional budget of EUR 2 million was made available for the consolidation and extension of the three existing care centres. The funds are intended to finance the expansion of infrastructure, specialised staff and the police services concerned, as well as the increase in operating costs in the hospital department. It was also necessary to validate the care centre model after the pilot phase before three new centres could be started, as it is an integral part of the selection criteria. The validation by different actors and institutions involved is now planned for March 2020. A specific working group is also set up in the Federal Hospital Services Council, with which concrete cooperation will be established. In the spring I will organise a public selection with a view to setting up the three new centres in Antwerp, Leuven and Charleroi. All hospitals and police areas concerned located in the judicial districts of those regions have already been informed of the opening. The award is scheduled for May 2020. For the start-up of the three new care centres, I have provided a budget of EUR 1,176,000, of which EUR 232,500 will be used to train hospital staff, EUR 343,000 for the formation of sex inspectors and EUR 600,000 for the necessary infrastructure. That's the part for the three new centers. At present, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, which is responsible for full coordination, has a budget of around €6 million. The budget consists of EUR 4.5 million, based on my equal opportunities competence, and a grant of EUR 1.6 million from the National Lottery. From 2021, so when the new centres are operational, the amount will be increased to EUR 6 million. That is, of course, good news. I am therefore sure that we will have to set up more of these centres in the future. The aim must be to provide care coverage in centres throughout the country. This will require more money. At present there are sufficient resources for the operation and expansion of the three existing centres and for the start-up and operation of the three new centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your more detailed answer. I think it is a good thing that the resources are already in place. It is difficult for me to imagine that a government with a different composition would come back to that. That's what I was worried about. I think you're doing the right thing to record things, as you seem to be doing. Thank you very much, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Inter-Ministerial Conference would be set up. I'm not entirely with you anymore, so I don't know if that happened or not. The main theme would be to combat violence against women. However, the conference will also have to consider the pay gap, the glass ceiling and sexism in general. I understood that it would be set up in January 2020, but I do not think that it was successful. That's why I liked to take a look at a state of affairs. When will it be done? Who exactly will be in the Inter-Ministerial Conference? Who will take on the practical organisation of this? Then where is she financially implanted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, you know your timing. Tomorrow it will be possible to do so, and tomorrow the matter will be discussed in the Conciliation Committee. It is true that the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights was established on 18 December 2019. Tomorrow's Consultation Committee, 19 February 2020, at 8.00 a.m., will decide on the composition of the Inter-Ministerial Conference as well as on the practical organisation and embedding. These items will be on the agenda tomorrow and will also be examined tomorrow with colleagues from the Regions and the Communities. I can only say that for the federal government the prime minister will sit down, as will Minister None for Justice, Minister De Block for Welfare and myself for Equal Opportunities. Those are also the logical partners in the story. Depending on the subject, other colleagues can of course also be invited. The concrete composition of the conference and who will chair it and its practical organisation will be on the agenda of the Consultative Committee tomorrow and will be known tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I am a little less behind than I thought. I didn't know if there was any more news, and I thought I missed something. I was on it, though. I will therefore put forward a follow-up question in a few weeks' time. There will undoubtedly be a press release tomorrow? In any case, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u25	Madam Secretary, I hope that with this question about sexual violence on children I will also be on it. Gender-based violence occurs in every community and is a fundamental violation of human rights, women's rights and children's rights. It is, of course, striking that the first victims are the most vulnerable. It is mainly about women in poverty, women living alone and, of course, children. There are different categories of sexual violence, ranging from sexual violence without contact to very serious sexual violence. It can go from being filmed without permission about posing naked to rape. However, this graduation should never give the impression that some forms of violence are less serious. All forms of sexual violence and sexual conduct without consent are serious. It remains important to stress that sexual violence within the private circumstances of a family or family is not a private problem. It is certainly not just a women's problem; men also experience violence, albeit to a lesser extent than women. We must continue to fight against sexual violence, particularly against children. What priority do you give to sexual violence, especially against children? In what way do you commit that battle? You attach great importance to the sexual violence care centres and provide the necessary resources for that purpose. You're working hard on that, and you're gonna be doing a seminar in New York in a few weeks' time. You attach great importance to this and want to give it international appeal. Children can also go to the care centres. What's going on with the care of kids in those centers? How do they deal with the victims? What added value do they offer for children?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u26	Mrs Van Hoof, the fight against gender-based violence, in particular sexual violence, is and remains a priority for the federal government and for my policy. One of the concrete and successful measures in this fight is the consolidation and extension of care centres on sexual violence. Since its creation, the centres have already received more than 2,400 victims of sexual violence. The average age of the victims is 24.7 years; 28% of the registrations are from victims under 18 years of age; 18% of all victims are under 15 years of age; 11% are between 15 and 18 years of age. The model of the Belgian Care Centres after Sexual Violence contains a specific part for children. There is therefore a special approach to children in the care centres. This has already been addressed in the training of both the staff of the care centres and the sex inspectors. The centres also cooperate with pediaters for the collection of DNA samples and with the Trust Centres Child Abuse (UK) and SOS enfants for the follow-up. The children's interviews are also conducted by the TAM interrogators (Technic Audiovisual Interrogation Minors). The Brussels Healthcare Centre has even provided its own TAM interrogation room for the current expansion of the infrastructure. As with adults, it can also be decided that a multidisciplinary and holistic approach is chosen, which really adds value: medical, forensic and psychological care offered in a multidisciplinary and holistic way and performed by specially trained staff in one safe, accessible place with special attention to the needs of victims and the entourage, day and night, seven days at seven, 24 hours at 24. In order to meet the needs of the many victims, as I said to Mrs Jiroflée, we will make an additional EUR 2 million available, both for the consolidation and for the extension of the three existing care centres. We will focus on infrastructure, specialised staff, operating costs and also on sex inspectors, of whom we want to recruit 180 more. As you know, we are about to start opening the three centres. Finally, I also think it is important that a grant has been awarded to UCLL for the further development of a tool that enables young children to tell their story through a specific methodology. This is done on the basis of game elements, toys and visualization of certain things. That methodology also comes back at every step of the route, which is important. That tool has already been successfully developed in the context of intra-family violence. We are now working hard to adapt it so that it can be used in the care centers. Experience experts from the care centres are also extensively consulted and trained for this purpose. We hope to start the tool as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u27	Madam Secretary, it is quite clear that you are making it a priority. The EUR 2 million extra that you are pulling out, in current cases, is a heartfelt thing. It is also a good thing that care centres are being rolled out further. The specifications are ready to take the center in Leuven and the other two further out...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic112x.u29	Beautiful. I hope that there will be care centres throughout the territory in the very near future. You also gave a good signal as far as the vice inspectors are concerned. The women's movement has been asking for a long time to look at how women are being received in police rooms, for example in Zichen-Zussen-Bolder, so that this can be done properly. Not all rapes take place in cities. There are also a lot of home rapes and most of the perpetrators are known, as you know. It is therefore important that these sex inspectors should be able to work anywhere and deal with young people in a good way. The figures you have given are aberrant: it is incredible how young the people involved are. How you handle this and the tool you further develop are therefore a good thing.
