ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u2	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I am an absolute opponent of racism and discrimination and even a sympathizer of Black Lives Matter, but last Sunday many people seem to have forgotten that all lives matter. It is also discrimination against your government to tolerate ten thousand people coming together, while the good citizens can sit at the table with at most ten people and thirty people at a funeral. It is also discrimination that tens of thousands of people are allowed to train together without taking into account social distancing, while the good citizens have to pay a fine of EUR 250 if they are too close together on a bench. It is also discrimination that ten thousand people are allowed to violate the corona rules, while the staff in hospitals are exhausted by taking care of the coronas victims. It's spitting in the face of our caregivers who're afraid of a re-flammation of the virus. Don't be surprised they'll turn their backs on you if you ever visit them again. It is also discriminatory that the police were allowed to act only when the looting started and not to prevent the raids of criminal scum from traders who already got an uppercut from the coronavirus and now knocked out with an empty shop. It is also discrimination that your ministers keep saying here that there will be zero tolerance against the revolving door criminals, who are always home from an arrest before the policemen from the hospital. I have seen more racism through the excesses of the demonstration than was accused in the demonstration. If this is anti-racism, then I don't know what racism is. There's more violence and hatred against the police than there is of the police. Madam Prime Minister, what will you do against the organizers of these demonstrations and against the politicians who have made this possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u3	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for us Liberals, freedom of expression is a cornerstone of our society. However, in times of COVID-19 pandemic, in which we ask residents to stay in their homes for three months and not to see any family or friends, in which we oblige entrepreneurs to close their cases and they suffer turnover losses and may have to fire workers, and in which we ask carers, nurses, nurses and doctors to take care of our sick, it is irresponsible, unsafe and simply primeval to organise and allow meetings like last Sunday. Yesterday, Minister De Crem stated in the Committee on the Interior that this demonstration did not follow the ministerial decision. He also indicated that the Mayor of Brussels is responsible for organising the demonstration and that, if he does not assume his responsibility, Prime Minister Vervoort, who is also governor of Brussels, should assume his responsibility. Madam Prime Minister, that Prime Minister is part of your National Security Council and has agreed to the measures. Nevertheless, he is unable to apply what he has approved and decided to do on the ground. If the Mayor of Brussels and the Prime Minister of Brussels cannot maintain order, it is time for them to draw their conclusions. If, in two or three weeks' time, the corona pandemic flares up and more patients are admitted to hospitals, the first question should be in the hospitals where the infected patients concerned were on 7 June 2020. If it turns out that they were in Brussels, the hospital bill for the treatment of these patients should be sent in full to the city of Brussels and to Mr Close. Madam Prime Minister, what is the outcome of your meeting with the Mayor of Brussels? Will you ask the Prime Minister of Brussels to carry out an investigation? Is there going to be a ministerial letter that determines when public events can and cannot and cannot take place throughout the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, your Minister of the Interior has been a bit tough lately. Anyone who violated the corona measures, however unclear or absurd they may have been, was fined. Visit your mobile home on the coast: fine. With two on a couch: fine. With two at the bar: fine. Prepare the opening of a catering shop together with the colleagues: fine. And now even Swissport employees at the airport are fined. They'd get a fine if they grieve together for their collective dismissal. Almost 150,000 corona fines were handed out. So far we can follow a bit, but what did we see open weekend? Not less than ten thousand people trod together in our capital and thereby not only endangered our public health, but also vandalized our streets and looted our stores. Worst of all, your own Home Secretary had expressed his support for that looting. He called the decision of the Brussels mayor to continue the demonstration, a "wise decision." Do you still have control of your government, Madam Prime Minister? Two weeks ago, Minister De Crem said after the incident in Anderlecht that it would be the last time that we would see violence against the policemen. He said he'd take care of that himself. But what did we see last Sunday? Police officers were humiliated and crowned with cobblestones and traffic lights, and above all, we saw how police officers were abandoned by politics, by you, by your government and by the Brussels city government. All they were allowed to do was collect. Will you continue to tolerate that shop owners, citizens and police officers become the victims of your government's world alienation? What do you think of a Minister of the Interior who allows such a demonstration and calls it a sensible decision? Should we, as citizens, still have confidence in that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u5	Madam Prime Minister, the events in the United States have received international feedback. Racism and discrimination are unacceptable and demand an answer from us, politicians. However, we must defend this fight against racism and discrimination in a good and smart way. What happened on Sunday is absolutely not okay. Ten thousand people are hunting down the streets of Brussels, while grandparents are not allowed to see their grandchildren all together, while caregivers have fought day and night to save lives from people infected with the corona virus! If within 14 days there is an increase in the number of corona infections, we can all look at the streets of Brussels. The preparation of such a manifestation and its decision lies with the mayor. This is where the mayor of Brussels made a mistake. Yes, the Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region could have whistled him back and perhaps after that, the Minister of the Interior. Was Mr De Crem not clear yesterday? Mr De Crem said yesterday that he had called Mr Close and that he assured him that the social distancing was in order and that mouth masks would be worn. This wasn't like that. This wasn't okay. Is this unwillingness? Is this incompetence from the mayor of Brussels? I don't know, but look at the people who have to take responsibility. After the demonstration, there were lootings and cars were vandalized. There was a lot of things. This was not good, because that kind of snows down the message against racism and discrimination and makes them fade. Madam Prime Minister, do you agree with me that the mayor should have banned this demonstration? Do you agree with me that such great manifestations cannot take place in corona times? There must be free speech, but there may be other forms for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u6	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, there has been a great deal of reaction to this June 7th event. Indeed, as many as 10,000 people gathered in a space that was known to be too small – I say, by the way, to the Vlaams Belang that the rules are just as valid for parliamentarians! – in the non-compliance with the rules laid down by the National Security Council (CNS). The demonstration was followed by images of riots, destruction and looting that shocked and tarnished the image of the capital of Europe. The city of Brussels is, however, experiencing a great many demonstrations on its territory, so that we can hardly invoke a lack of experience in this field. What happened was therefore predictable and could have been avoided or, at the very least, framed and circumscribed, as was the case in other cities such as Liège, Antwerp and Ghent. The cause was noble and deserves all the manifestations of the world. However, the period of health crisis should have deterred the mayor of Brussels from organising this event under such conditions. At the CNS, you yourself stated, Madam Prime Minister, that there was "a multitude of possibilities for expressing support for a cause that is compatible with the period of health crisis". Last Thursday, in plenary, following my question, you stated unequivocally: "It seems that more than 5,000 people would plan to mobilize. I sincerely hope that the mayor will find with the organizers an alternative to a demonstration that would be contrary to the decisions taken to protect the population." Two days before the events, your Minister of the Interior also issued a ministerial decree prohibiting the gathering of more than 10 people. Unfortunately, not all of these appeals were heard. As a result, 33 police officers were injured, 33 businesses were degraded and looted, not to mention this negative image of our country. Local and regional authorities are now losing their responsibilities. I regret this lack of political courage when they have a representative in the CNS. Madam Prime Minister, far from polemics that are far too sterile and in a constructive spirit, what can you answer them? In the future, how could citizens organise possible requests for public expression?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u7	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the message of the fight against racism must be made loud and clear. There are many ways to express it. This Sunday, this message could have been delivered just as loud but otherwise. I'm so sorry to see what happened. Let us first think of the injured policemen and the vandalized traders who are victims of these violent and unacceptable slippages. As a doctor, I am very concerned about the risks that have been taken to the health of all those present during the demonstrations but also of all those with whom they will be in contact within the next fifteen days. Physical distancing measures were not followed. I also find that this completely disproves the health messages that still apply, which are so important to protect people's health and to avoid a rebound. How can we persuade every citizen to continue the efforts of physical distancing, to be only ten a week? What can be said to all those who have no opportunity to be with their loved ones, in a nursing home, in a hospital, in institutions of disabled people or simply with friends in a wider way? This manifestation, certainly, has been tolerated by some. The commune, first of all, could not tolerate it. Neither is the Brussels-Capital Region. But your government, Madam Prime Minister, without responsible decision-making at the local and regional levels, could and should prohibit it. Has the National Security Council discussed this? What was the decision of the National Security Council on these Sunday demonstrations? Finally, how can we manage the health of the future? Emmanuel André called for all those who participated in the demonstration to strictly respect the barrier gestures for fifteen days to protect others. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u8	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, a manifestation took place on Sunday against the corona measures. That manifestation was amazingly not banned in Brussels. In the end, a demonstration of police violence degenerate into violence against the police. This is unacceptable in a rule of law. For months large efforts were demanded of the population at a high price of social isolation and loss of mourning moments. The political debate highlighted the noble purpose of the manifestation. The population then naturally wonders whether visiting grandparents in resting places, visiting sick, even terminal relatives in a hospital, visiting lonely people at home or opening shops in the morning are not noble goals. That's them. Those measures were maintained. Apparently, there is a difference in noble goals. That's right to piss off the people. On many political platforms, it gave rise to debates. Mr De Crem said yesterday in committee: 'I will leave for the nuclear cabinet and the government immediately after the meeting and ask that it give me universal authority to act on the ground'. Is that what happened? What is the result of that? Will you answer our question about an investigation by the General Inspection of the Federal and Local Police? You've called Mayor Close on the floor, and rightly so. What's that supposed to be? I hope his failure will not be drowned in measures that bear witness to distrust in all the mayors. Prime Minister Vervoort said in the Committee on the Interior of the Brussels-Capital Parliament that the National Security Council asked not to ban, but to tolerate. Hij eindigde says, "One of us is not telling the truth." Can you tell me which one that was?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u9	Mr President, there are indeed tragedies that provoke emotion, anger and revolt all over the world. There are also fighting that knows no borders, fighting that must mobilize all of us, not only today but at all times. The fight against racism and violence, whatever its form, cannot suffer any compromise. The death of George Floyd has tragically reminded us of the discrimination still faced by many people today. Faced with this injustice, faced with this violence, many citizens have meant their anger and, beyond that, their determination to fight the hatred of the other. I have said it and I repeat it: I understand it and I stress it, it is legitimate. The cause is right. However, we must take into account the health context we have been facing for several months. This has resulted in many victims and pressure on the health care staff. The fact that the epidemiological situation is improving does not mean that it is resolved. The freedoms gradually recovered do not yet mean a return to life before. Unfortunately, the virus is still among us. That is why last Wednesday, at the conclusion of the National Security Council extended to Ministers-Presidents, I had made it very clear, once again on the basis of the recommendations of the experts, that any gathering, whatever its objective, however noble or the cause, contravenes the measures taken by the same CNS, taking into account the risks that such gatherings might have on the spread of the epidemic. I made this clear at the press conference because it was in line with the discussions we had during this National Security Council, contrary to what some people claim, even in the gallery of some parliaments. It is very important to remember that these rules are there to protect the people and not, as sometimes shamelessly implied and even declared openly, to curb public events. Last Thursday I also expressed the wish that an alternative would be found, so no demonstration. I therefore found it encouraging that a message from Belga announced that a discussion would take place between Mayor Close and the organisers to find a safe solution. On Friday, the city of Brussels announced that it had decided to tolerate a so-called static action, without prior consultation with the Minister of the Interior. Last Sunday, ten thousand people gathered peacefully on the Poelaertplein in Brussels. The violence that took place after the demonstration is obviously unacceptable and its perpetrators must be prosecuted. Any form of violence is unacceptable. A legal task force has been set up to identify the perpetrators of violence. 39 arrests have already been made, including 7 in court. The parquet confirmed one of them. I would remind you that the disciplinary regime for mayors who do not respect the ministerial decision is a regional competence. In any case, preserving the health of our citizens must remain the priority objective and the holding of such an event where social distancing is virtually impossible to respect was, and I would remind you, formally contrary to the CNS's directives. On Tuesday, on the afternoon of the demonstration, I had a very constructive and calm meeting, that is true, with the mayor of Brussels, Philippe Close. The meeting concluded with a joint press release clearly confirming that any demonstration remains contrary to the guidelines. This message applies of course to all cities and municipalities in Belgium. The press release also indicated that perspectives were going to be given, as was done for other parts of our lives, to allow for public expression taking into account the health situation. It is not a question of making exceptions to the rules applicable to all, but of seeing how to organize requests for public expression in accordance with the rules, which must indeed be followed by everyone, regardless of status or rank. It is imperative that the message vis-à-vis the population is not blurred. We cannot drastically limit the number of people for certain events and see at the same time that thousands of people meet without constraint. So, yes, Mr.Emmanuel André tweeted asking not to quarantine himself but, according to what I read, to respect the barrier gestures scrupulously for 15 days. Of course, caution and common sense would like us not to take part in this type of event first of all, but that, when we take part in it, we know that we take an increased risk for our health but also for the health of others. Therefore, greater caution must be exercised. Let us not be mistaken: the virus continues to cause victims. I therefore call each and every one, as I do regularly - but I am not the only one, many of us have been doing since the beginning of the crisis - to continue to show responsibility, to remain vigilant for ourselves and above all for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, I know that making statements afterwards is easy. Parliament has given power of attorneys to the government, so you have powers of attorney as in wartime. In hindsight, it is wrong to say that you should have intervened and that you did not listen. You could have prevented it. I'm gonna go tell you something personal. A month ago, we were talking about the second remaining people who were not allowed to go to the coast. At the time, you had adopted a measure which I had said could not be adopted because we could no longer maintain it. I announced at the time that I wouldn't control anymore. Then I drove home from Parliament, where I got a call from the governor, the sheriff of West Flanders. He had already been instructed by the prosecutor to say that the municipal police might be taken over by the federal police. So do not come here now with the calimero attitude that you have said it but that it has not been done. I'm just waiting to see what kind of punishment you're gonna impose on that mayor. Will you have the courage to do that? You have been given power of attorneys from Parliament which you can use if things go wrong, not to keep ordinary people locked up and give them fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u11	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the very clear answer. The agreements of the National Security Council have not been complied with, the ministerial decision has not been followed and we now know that the Prime Minister of Brussels will not initiate disciplinary proceedings. If the prime minister and the mayor can't apply the law, I think it's time they jump to conclusions. As far as the protesters are concerned, if within a few weeks there is a flare-up of the corona crisis, then we must first ask where the people concerned were on 7 June. The invoice for the treatment of those sick must then be sent to the city of Brussels. We know who the rioters are and they need to be punished quickly, because their behaviour is unacceptable. I don't care if they have to help clean up the place. In addition, the invoice for the repair of business should also be sent to Mr Close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, whenever you or Members of Parliament talk about violence against the police, you talk about a small group of young people in certain neighbourhoods who have no respect for the police. But be honest, look at reality. It is not about a small group of young people, but about a very large proportion of the population, which is growing as long as borders are wide open. It's not about certain neighborhoods either, but it's about every city in our country. In every city in Belgium where the multiculture you loved shows up, police officers must have eyes on their backs. Nor is it about a lack of respect for the police. We are talking about brutal physical violence, not just against policemen, because bus drivers are being attacked, firefighters are being set up and ambulances are already wearing stabbing vests. Wonderful, isn't it, the multiculture? Take these politically correct blinkers off and look at reality, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your clear answer, which we appreciate. It is now clearly up to the region to take action. I also understand that the Minister of the Interior was not involved in the final decision. What is even more important is that the right to freedom of expression, especially when it comes to racism and discrimination, must continue to exist. To do this, we need to find the right forms. Some fellow politicians who took part in that demonstration said that they would like to remain in quarantine for 14 days. Now, please remember that several self-employed, hard-working workers and parents do not have that option. Maybe we should take that with us after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u14	Thank you for your clear answer. Let me therefore give you my vision of the management of this demonstration, and of a known fable, in the current political "poto-poto" Brussels. You'll need a little concentration. Once upon a time four individuals were called Everyone, Someone, Each and No one. There was an important work to be done: to find an alternative to a demonstration in accordance with CNS rules. We asked everyone to do it. Everyone was convinced that someone would. Everyone could have done it, but nobody actually did. Someone got angry because it was everyone's job. Everyone thought that everyone could do it, and no one doubted that anyone would do it. In the end, everyone blamed everyone because no one had done what anyone could have done. Colleagues, I agree with you, it is a somewhat caricatured version, but it is a wonderful example of the situation. Morality: Without wishing to blame everyone, it would be good if everyone did what they had to do without nurturing the hope that someone would do it in their place. Because experience shows that where we were waiting for someone on Sunday in the Brussels "poto-poto", we didn't find anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u15	Madam Minister, the only thing I remember from this whole story is that the rule, first and foremost the health rule, has not been respected. A lot of people could intervene. Each level of power could take over by assuming its responsibilities: the City of Brussels, the Brussels-Capital Region, the federal government. All these levels of power refer to each other. And as my colleague said right now, everyone could intervene. In this case, these three levels of power could, and none of these three levels of power intervened. The big losers are first the citizens, and at the end of the demonstration, the traders and the police injured. The great loser, the Prime Minister, is first and foremost health. I hope that this will not happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. We have learned that the Socialist Mayor of Brussels is incompetent and that the Socialist Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region has lied. Those are two facts that make them better honor themselves. I would like to express my solidarity here. I hope that this will have the necessary consequences in this House. Solidarity with the police officers who were victims of brutal violence and with the merchants affected by vandalism. In this context, I would like to ask my colleagues in the Green Group whether they have already distanced themselves from the tweet of the Green Party chairman, in which she has actually linked the terrible events with George Floyd to the functioning of our order services. This is the behavior of a political pyromaniac and can be interpreted as a free pass to disrespect the police forces, which are insinuated to be guilty of structural racist behaviour. This shows an absolute lack of political responsibility and deserves disdain and disapproval from all of us, and I hope that the Green Group will finally join us in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, I would have preferred not to ask you about this mask saga, but we must learn from this obvious failure of your government's distribution of masks. This is obviously a failure of the federal government, as we have all seen the time required for Defence to enter the market. I would also like to thank the officials who worked on the file. Four ministers gave themselves the hot potato and finally came to this failure when we were in a situation of global emergency and shortage. The Belgian situation was aggravated as the previous government had destroyed our strategic stocks. It's a failure in time management. The distribution will begin on June 15th, while the defining began on May 4th. It took a month and a half for us to distribute a mask to our fellow citizens. Political men and women, especially in times of crisis, are expected to reassure and protect the population. Clearly, your government has failed. It's an economic failure. As the law on public procurement allows you, if you had launched a batch market, our Belgian companies that have been on the street would probably have been able to provide you in time. The tens of millions of euros that these masks cost would then have remained in the Belgian economy. You know as well as I do that we need it. It's a medical failure. While you are repeating tirelessly – and rightly – that the NSC's recommendations must be respected, your own government does not do so. While it was a condition of the public market, the masks you distributed cannot be washed at 60 degrees. I hope that no Belgian company has been excluded from the market for this reason. It remains for our pharmacists to recommend that our fellow citizens quarantine these masks for 72 hours – three days! – after their use. It is no longer useful to cry on the milk spread, we must draw the conclusions of this story, which is not a sketch! Madam Prime Minister, is it all the masks or simply the Luxembourg lot that cannot be washed at 60 degrees? Why didn't you go through a public contract with lots, as most municipalities did, which could have benefited our Belgian companies? Do you intend to amend the law on public procurement and thus allow public authorities, in the event of a crisis, to work in the form of purchasing centres, which could simplify the model? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u18	Mr. Chair, Madam Prime Minister, wearing the mask is an essential condition for exiting the pandemic. In the train, shops, schools, public space, it is the indispensable tool to fight the virus. Today, it is accepted by everyone. We can thank our fellow citizens who have been following this simple and effective rule for weeks. It is so simple that we can wonder why your government has been so slow in developing the recommendations – and perhaps even obligations – to issue with respect to wearing the mask. As soon as this morning, we learned from the press that the group of experts you set up recommended wearing the mask as early as February. Prime Minister, why did the government sit on this important recommendation? Why was the wearing of the mask not made mandatory? Secondly, I would like to ask you about the provision of masks by the federal state to the population. My mailbox has been overflowing for weeks with messages about it. For a long time, the questions were about the date of arrival of the masks. Since last night, they have evolved and concern the smooth running of the public market or the washing of masks at less than 60°, contrary to what has been recommended to all since the beginning of the crisis. One also wonders why they are packed by five, whereas the technical requirements of the specification called for individual packaging. Prime Minister, I hope you will be able to answer these essential questions. Indeed, I have the impression that this unfortunate saga is damaging the relationship of trust established between public authorities and citizens, which you must now reassure by answering all these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u19	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us try to sum up the situation: the fifteen million masks ordered by the federal government have finally arrived, certainly in the image of the carabinieri of Offenbach, since masks are now found everywhere, and even, alas, on the ground. Unfortunately, it seems, according to the press, that a large part of them cannot be washed to more than 30°. This is a problem because, on the one hand, the federal authorities but also the World Health Organization recommend a 60° wash and, on the other hand, this 60° requirement was included in the Defence specification for ordering these masks. This is also a problem because it is only the umpteenth complication in what is called the "saga of masks". Even in wanting to be constructive and without the taste of some of my colleagues to shoot at the ambulance, it is clear that, from the beginning, nothing is going on in this history of masks. Nothing goes: from the destruction of the unrenewed strategic stocks to these 30° washable masks, to the delays of the public authorities concerning the recommendation or the imposition of the wearing of the mask in a particular situation. All this undermines the credit of public authority. Minister, do you confirm the press information on the reliability of these masks? Have they been tested? Incidentally, what about the famous filters that no one talks about but were also promised by the federal state? Last but not least, I am well aware of the fact, Madam Prime Minister, that you have something else to do, but it is important that you take back the bar to your four, five, six mask ministers so that we have a clear and effective vision. Indeed, this dossier is in the process of undermining the credit of the public authority on a lasting basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u20	For two months, you told us that you had to wash the fabric masks at 60 degrees for at least 30 minutes, in order to be sure that they were properly disinfected. At the end of April, you also told us that the government was going to provide each Belgian with a mask. It is expected that these masks will arrive on May 4th, but they were only delivered on June 11th and today we learn that they are not compliant and that they cannot be washed at 60 degrees! Frankly, who are we laughing at? With six ministers responsible for the delivery of masks, we are unable to provide the population with compliant masks that offer optimal protection. It is therefore an amount of 40 million euros that has just been wasted! A worker who makes a mistake of such magnitude would be dismissed immediately. I think it is important to shed all light on this matter, not only on this failed order, but also on the various incidents that preceded it, including the destruction of the strategic stock. Similarly, why not entrust the manufacture of these masks to Belgian producers? In addition to the Board of Inquiry, what measures do you intend to take to correct this error and what sanctions do you envisage against the supplier Avrox, who has clearly failed to comply with the conditions set out in the market - such as the possibility of washing masks at 60 degrees?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u21	Madam Prime Minister, the pharmacist in my neighborhood wanted me to show them to you. Of course, I'll bring them back to him later. But she wanted me to show you this, which actually poses a first problem. The masks are delivered in packages of five, with only one manual. The package must therefore be opened so that it can be distributed to each of the beneficiaries of these masks. A second mistake is that at that time, you touch the mask, while it is well marked on the instructions for use that you first have to wash your hands for 30 seconds. I don't know how it can be organized, in pharmacies, to wash hands for 30 seconds. Then there is only one manual. This means that four out of five beneficiaries do not have instructions for using these masks. However, it is important to have the instructions for using these masks, for all the reasons I have just explained to you, but also and above all because it is very clearly stated that they must be washed by hand, at 30 degrees, and then dried out, on a thread, to respect the fibres of the mask. We are told to wash these masks at 60 degrees, because the virus is not killed below 60 degrees. Today, your Minister of Defence tells us that this was just a recommendation. Madam Minister, I would like to know clearly whether this was part of the specifications. If so, this is not consistent. If it was only a recommendation in the specifications, it was a serious mistake in the specifications. This question is essential: was it indicated in the specifications that masks should be washed at 60° degrees? My question is clear, because in one case there is a fault in the specifications, in the other, these masks are not in conformity and are, in my opinion, dangerous to the health of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u22	I inform the Chamber that Mr Freilich has tabled an order motion, which I will discuss after Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, sometimes I regret not being a journalist anymore. With what I see and experience around the mouth mask saga, I could have filled a newspaper every day. There are so many different elements in this story that I have had to sum up in order not to forget one. It started with a completely unknown firm that was never known for supplying any textile product. What turned out to be? It's a P.O. box company with an address where there's nothing to see but a P.O. box. The owner, a Jordan, lives in Malta and also has a company in Panama. All very interesting, of course. The masks we chose for 2.5 euros were the most expensive of all. One could get similar masks for less than 1 euro. Today we know who the supplier is, and we also know that a mask like this, if one makes very large purchases, costs 50 cents. The award changed and course the route, a few days before closing the offer. There was the late delivery of the masks. Companies were wrongly rejected. I asked Minister Goffin about this last time, but I am still waiting for the answer. There are complaints of all kinds, for example at the Council of State. There is also a question to the Internal Audit, I read today. There are problems with the packaging or washing instructions of the mouth masks, as has already been mentioned by other colleagues. And so on, and so on. For these reasons, I have tabled an order motion to ask all colleagues that the Court of Auditors should consider this matter. I hope, Madam Secretary, that you will support my question. Minister Goffin, from the same party as you, said: I'm looking forward to it. . He assumed there was an investigation going through the Court of Auditors. I can confirm today that this is not the case. There's no investigation through the Court of Auditors. I will ask that question today, and I hope for your answer and your support, so that we can get full clarity and transparency on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u24	Mr. President, the coronavirus crisis is global. It has also led to a global shortage for several weeks, which has occurred in all countries where domestic production also exists. Faced with this procurement challenge, our teams and administrations worked day and night to find solutions that were not perfect, of course, but solutions anyway. I recall that we have distributed 71 million surgical masks and 5 million FFP2 masks for the health care sector as a priority. The strategic stock today contains 14 million surgical masks and 3.3 million FFP2 masks. I was asked the question of the Risk Assessment Group (RAG), which, in February, highlighted the usefulness of oral masks. It was not a general council for the general population. This opinion concerned individuals with respiratory symptoms or relatives or caregivers of sick and potentially ill persons with VOCID-19. In the same opinion, it is clearly stated that fabric masks are not recommended by the World Health Organization under any circumstances. In addition, it is also indicated that these may give a false sense of protection that may encourage risk-taking. But it is true that he said that offering a washable mask could reduce the public's sense of panic. At the time, in February, decisions were made on containment, which meant a fundamental limitation of all contacts outside the home. You understand that at that time, the question of wearing the general mask for the population was not yet a major issue. You have also found, in relation to this February 22 opinion and the current recommendations, that the GAR has evolved, like other jurisdictions. The federal government has decided to bring its stone to the building in the provision of pimps for the entire population. I say that he decided to bring his stone to the building, because wearing the mask is a preventive measure. This subject is organised and provided by the Regions. It is therefore not a federal jurisdiction. Anyway, you'll answer me, it doesn't prevent the delivery of the masks from proving difficult. That is correct, but I would remind you that it has been difficult everywhere and for everyone. However, should we not want to help our fellow citizens, on the grounds that we would have fallen behind a little bit? I think the answer is no. We worked in two stages. First of all, we wanted to increase the level of protection of masks already acquired or crafted by ordering 12 million filters. They reached the towns and municipalities until 29 May. They are responsible for their distribution. The government has also ordered 18 million fabrics mouth masks. These masks have all been delivered, some unfortunately with an additional delay, but I would remind you that the two firms had to deliver contractually before 24 May. Fines will therefore be imposed for the delay, as laid down in the specifications. The masks are available free of charge in the pharmacy for all citizens from 15 June. The quality of masks is questioned by some. However, I would like to highlight the response that Defence gave at the beginning of the week and again yesterday. It confirms that the masks have an antibacterial layer and have been tested in the laboratory. It also indicates that they meet the prescribed standards and WHO recommendations. Just a moment ago or yesterday, Marc Van Ranst, a KUL virologist and member of the GEES, confirmed that viruses do not survive a washing of these masks with laundry product. By the way, the Defense Department denies that a firm would have been banned because the masks should not be washed at 60 degrees. The company concerned was declared technically not to be in conformity due to lack of evidence of sufficient air permeability and filter capacity. Defence also confirms the soundness of the public contract for a total of EUR 39 million. There are two certainties. The first is that you have already received all these answers. Mr. Goffin had all the time to explain them along the way. The Defence has issued various press releases. I understand that this is an important matter and that we want to take it back to Parliament; I am just saying that the answers have already been given. It's okay. The second certainty is fundamental. We can always analyze things by saying "there's only one, it would have had, now, we know, before, we didn't know". I am simply saying that all the decisions that have been taken by this government, in this moment of acute and global crisis, have been made every time with the protection of our people and the protection of the general interest at heart. When analysing decisions, it is necessary to keep in mind the context, the information available at that time, the regulations in force, the recommendations available at that time, which come from experts and representative authorities. Even more broadly, when it comes to masks, one must bear in mind the constraints associated with the general shortage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u25	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, but I want to say to you, "This is all about it!" We all know that, unfortunately, this may end up in financial gabegie. According to the polls, 65% of Belgians will not go for their masks. They like you, you like me, we've all arranged for masks, since we've been waiting for them for a month and a half. Yet it could have been otherwise. But remember, at the beginning of the crisis, Mrs De Block said that the wearing of the mask was of no use to the citizens, while the scientists pleaded in the opposite direction. Remember, over time, the dispersal of each other's skills. Mr. De Backer was in charge of the management of the protective equipment, but not of the citizen masks, as Mr. Goffin was in charge of it. But Mr. Goffin didn't take care of the filters, because Mr. Geens took care of them. In short, it was complicated and, ultimately, the federal citizen masks arrived too late. Fortunately, many municipalities have assumed their responsibilities. I thank all local actors, all parties. They did it even if they had not appointed four mayors or four ministers of masks. They took on a public service role and provided masks to our entire population. Madam Prime Minister, let us be on the right side. There was a clear lack of organization and coordination. This order is the cherry on the cake of everything that people no longer want. I count on you to take the necessary steps in case of a second wave, to put everything in place so that we work with the textile players in our country to find effective solutions, and that this never happens again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u26	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, in fact you have not taught us anything new. I am therefore a little disappointed with the answer you have given us. I never claimed that crisis management had been simple. I think we can highlight the important and effective logistical role of Defence. I also thanked her for that a few weeks ago in committee. However, we must agree that it is regrettable that today we still do not have masks to provide as a federal state to our fellow citizens. It would have been preferable to intervene earlier, to provide in quality, in sufficient number, in time and time, what we are going to provide tomorrow. In this connection, I have already questioned Mr Goffin on several occasions and, despite all the sympathy he has given me, in this case, I am still puzzled. Some of our questions remain unanswered. We will have to dig this up because the market unfolds, the relevance of the choices made leave me very puzzled and I am quite dissatisfied with the answers received today. The masks could have been the running gag of this crisis. Unfortunately, so far this has not made anyone laugh, and I sincerely hope that the Court of Auditors could do something and shed some useful light on this issue, which is becoming a real saga.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u27	Mr President, I will speak from my bench. This makes it possible to give a little less work to the staff of Parliament who clean the desks each time. I thank him for that. Prime Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I think, in spite of everything, this mask story will remain the "Captain Haddock's sparadrap" in this crisis. I don't think I've had an answer about the filters. It may have escaped me. So I will not fail to read you carefully. I suppose you told me they're coming or they're already here. One element of your answer bothers me - it bothers me since the beginning of this crisis - is the argument that the federal is very nice to provide masks and to do lots of other things in place of the Regions that are in theory responsible for prevention. That is true, but there is a royal decree that finds that there is a pandemic and that we are entering the federal phase. There's an ambivalence about that. This may have nothing to do with it, but I see that there is a ping-pong game between the Regions, the federal government or other levels of power. I am not aiming at you, but I see a general ambivalence that would have to be clarified in order to avoid each other using it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u28	Madam Prime Minister, for two months now you have been saying that textile masks must be washed at least 60 degrees for at least 30 minutes. Next, our government supplies oral masks that are not allowed to be washed at 60 degrees and are therefore not compliant. Six ministers are competent for mouth masks, but apparently they are unable to deliver conform masks. Honestly, if I were an employee in a company to make such a mistake, I'd have already been put at the door. I note that this is not happening here. It is also problematic that you have always trusted on the market and have awarded the order to dubious companies. The supplier company appears to be a mailbox company, which also supplies poor material. That is, I believe, one of the issues to be dealt with in a committee of inquiry, in which we must find out what mistakes the government has made in dealing with the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u29	Madam Prime Minister, you will never hear our political group say that you have not done anything and that you have remained in your arms. We know that you have gone to the front with several of your ministers in the context of this pandemic and that you have sometimes been forced to deal with the most urgent. However, when a problem arises, it must be recognized and, in this case, the problem is serious and takes on the appearance of disaster. To my knowledge, Defence is a federal jurisdiction. You say that Parliament has been informed, but that is incorrect: it has been a month since we in the Committee on Military Procurement have been trying to know what is happening to this market. We have still not received an answer, and we are told that at best the Court of Auditors will address us on 8 July, while everyone will be on vacation. The answer continues to be postponed. In any event, we will not even have the specifications at that time. You would have grown to recognize that there is a problem, that these masks are not compliant and that they are not going to protect the population effectively, and that is where the problem lies. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u30	Madam Prime Minister, you say that the government has made the decision with the best of intentions. I certainly have no doubt about that. We too are concerned about public health. You say it was hard for everyone and everywhere to buy masks. Prime Minister, you said it was difficult for everyone and everywhere. That's not true. That is not true, because we are the only country in Europe that has made the decision to buy textile masks. What was difficult was ordering medical and surgical masks at the beginning of the crisis. We were the only country that ordered textile masks. That's where it went wrong. The free market should have been allowed to play. We see that it works: pharmacists have there, supermarkets have there. What happened in the end? Who's screwed? Defense. Defense has done its best to handle a file that no one wanted as well as possible in very difficult circumstances. In the end, she has gone to hell, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u31	Madam Prime Minister, this is an important period for students, but you, too, are facing an important exam: the social exam of this government. Many measures have already been taken to avert a socio-economic crisis in this country, some of which were led by Ecolo-Green. This week we gave people working in the cultural and event sectors more flexible access to unemployment. The government has already done a great deal of work together with Parliament. But before the corona crisis, 1.8 million people lived in poverty in our country. A million other compatriots just arrived, but are now threatening to go under. Yesterday, 1,500 employees lost their jobs at Swissport. Unfortunately, that will not be the last. In my city of Ghent there is an increase of 50% in the number of living wage applications. The social challenge in our country has already been great and is now in danger of becoming huge. It is not corona that makes people poor, but a lack of more targeted social measures. Madam Prime Minister, we assume that you have the ambition to succeed, including for this social exam. What we need for this is additional support for the most vulnerable. The EUR 300 decided upon is a start, but in fact it is totally inadequate. With six times fifty euros a month, the income of these many compatriots remains well below the poverty line. Energy poverty also needs to be addressed, because one in five families is having a hard time paying the bill. Madam Prime Minister, let's pass this social exam as well, and not get the hell out of here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u32	Madam Prime Minister, the health crisis is gradually under control with fewer than 100 people on intensive care, but the economic crisis is growing. We are going for a negative economic growth of 10% this year. The recovery will take several years. If we want to get our economy back on track, we need to support and continue to encourage structurally healthy companies. Healthy companies create profits and incomes for employees. An important part of it goes back to the government so that it can carry out its core tasks and ensure solidarity. Companies don't want the government infusion. What we need today are sensible, targeted and temporary measures that help companies that are going through an economic storm today. Our particular attention must go to the companies that are anchored here. I am referring in particular to the family-based companies which play an important role. They provide 45% of the private employment. They will play a central role in recovery. They need to fuel confidence and strengthen their solvency. Madam Prime Minister, what measure will you take to give companies incentives to strengthen their own solvency? I have a second question. We are moving towards a budget deficit of EUR 50 billion. Today, Parliament looks like a driftless ship waving at the waves of expensive legislative proposals of all kinds, with everyone all too eager to approve any nice idea and even without wanting to know the cost. This also happened last week in the Committee on Finance with regard to the VAT reduction in soap. During the supercore tomorrow, would you ask all the parties present to stop this sintering-clay policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u33	Prime Minister, the forecasts for our economy are extremely worrying. The Plan Office is talking about a 10.6 per cent contraction in GDP this year, before a rebound of 8.2 per cent next year. Our economy has suffered its biggest setback since the Second World War. As for unemployment, it would rise from 8.9% in 2019 to 11.6% in 2021, which would negate all the positive results achieved by Charles Michel's government. Your government, the Prime Minister, supported by the ten parties, has taken many steps to support economic activity and employment. Moreover, a third part was validated last Saturday, extending several provisions such as temporary unemployment coronavirus, parental leave coronavirus, as well as the right gateway, so essential for all our self-employed. The measures taken in favour of Horeca are also mentioned, in particular in the form of a reduction of VAT to 6%. Prime Minister, what new measures are you working on right now? Which sectors will be involved? How could all these provisions be articulated in order to constitute a genuine stimulus plan for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the crisis, we have done everything possible to protect the health of the entire population, but also to protect our citizens and businesses as far as possible from the significant socio-economic consequences that result. A study carried out in ten European countries as well as in the United States and Japan shows that the measures we have taken are within the European average. Of course, the work must continue. This Saturday, an agreement in Kern+10 was reached to further support the purchasing power of Belgians and the most difficult sectors. This is the third part of the federal plan for social and economic protection, which involves different measures. The first package deals with measures that have already been taken but are being extended. Some have been extended until 31 August 2020, such as temporary unemployment due to corona-force majeure, the right of bridging for self-employed persons and corona-parent leave. Other measures have been extended until 31 December 2020, such as the individual tax deferral or the tax exemption for the donation of computer equipment to schools. At the same time, four specific aid measures have also been defined for sectors in difficulty, including hotels and catering until December 2020. It concerns, in particular, the right of bridging, temporary unemployment, corporate tax and the reduction of VAT to 6% for the catering industry. You are aware of these measures. So I will not go into any more detail. Mrs Willaert, we have also taken a series of decisions which have a direct impact on people's purchasing power, such as the 300 euro consumer cheque. However, when we talk about unemployment or additional social assistance, it is obviously also about people's purchasing power. In addition to the first package of measures agreed, the ten parties agreed to continue discussions to determine aid measures that could complement the first package. Discussions are under way. So I will not explain what they are going for today. The aim is to find a consensus between the ten parties to put these measures in place and to maintain some consistency in the vision between those that can develop at government level and those that can develop at Parliament level. When this consensus is reached, the objective and agreement between the ten parties is to maintain and respect this strategic vision, to respect coherence and to avoid other measures being tabled or taken that could undermine this vision or impact the state budget more negatively and perhaps less usefully. These support measures have a lifespan until 31 December. That is the limit we have set ourselves today. Apart from that, there is everything about recovery, that is, longer-term structural measures for the redeployment of our economy. In this regard, I believe that these measures must be the cornerstone of a government agreement, with a majority in the House but also within it, in order to be able to engrave these measures in a lasting and, above all, solid manner. The country needs it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u35	Madam Prime Minister, people in poverty do not have a strong lobby. It is therefore up to us to strengthen the voice of those people in Parliament, because the water is on their lips. Colleagues, a month ago, every one of us here in Parliament was deeply impressed by Dylan. Dylan was a boy who didn't ask for money for presents but he did ask for his parents to buy food. Over the last few months, we have dealt with the health crisis together, and now it is time to work hard to tackle the social crisis. We must now ensure that the people who need it most receive the right support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u36	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. We are following your analysis, because there is a need for coherence, clarity and decisiveness. I continue to call for targeted measures, with budgetary caution, because we are already European champions redistributing, with a public debt of more than 50% and an equally high tax burden. With the current series of uncovered cheques that people want to write out here, we are at risk of becoming world champions. The current deficit of EUR 50 billion means that we give every citizen a debt of EUR 4,000, a backpack with debt. However, we know that the younger generations will take those debts from the older generations. We cannot and must not continue to do so. We must take the path to a healthy economy and move back towards budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u37	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for all the details you have given. It is important that certain measures can be extended until 31 December. Indeed, it is known that a whole range of sectors will find it difficult to get up, to raise their heads, to return to a normal and efficient pace of work. I am thinking in particular of the horeca sector, which has been discussed a lot in recent days. But this is also the case in other sectors such as tourism and construction. All these sectors will take some time to regain a profitable and productive level of work. In addition, you spoke of consistency. This is an extremely important aspect. This coherence must exist within our government, between the ten parties that support it, but also within this Parliament. As you said, we must ensure that we have a coherent state budget, a budget that is already well cut. In any event, we will have to be able, through structural measures, to put in place the cornerstone of a new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u38	Minister, these are particularly tense times for the airport community. We have had a few exchanges of views on this important dossier in recent weeks. The airport is the second largest economic engine in our country and also places a lot of weight on diplomatic, business and passenger and cargo issues. So it is a very important dossier and we must get on with it; a decision is needed. There's a lot going on. Last week Sebastian Kurz, Austria's head of government, announced that EUR 450 million would be made available to Austrian Airlines. With this, all home carriers have received a solution, except the Belgian home carrier, Brussels Airlines. We're the last in line. It is important that a solution is found in the short term. I understand there's not much you can say. You have repeated a number of times that this is a matter of discreet negotiations. I have every respect for that, but I am still asking for a decision to be made as soon as possible. What's the status of the file? When can we expect a final green light for this? Our group's position is that we fit in with a new Sabena scenario. However, we believe that supporting the home carrier, through a loan, for example, should be negotiable, given the very serious problems of the airport. I would also like to comment on the file on Swissport, the second baggage dealer at the airport. There is now a temporary solution with dnata and Swissport Cargo, which temporarily take over baggage handling for two weeks. I really insist on a statement from you, Minister, that Swissport's staff should be assigned to dnata and Swissport Cargo as a priority, so that those workers remain on the job. Let's be clear: no social massacre. Then there is the abominable service of Brussels Airlines at the moment. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u39	Thank you, Mr Francken, for your question. The questions on Swissport will be dealt with by Mr Bellot. He'll take the floor after this. Questions on consumer rights fall within the competence of Mrs Muylle. The impact of the COVID-19 crisis is enormous. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) the International Federation of Airlines estimates its impact at €84.5 billion. The impact is also very large on the Belgian airport cluster. You have indicated the importance of this. It's about 60,000 direct and indirect jobs. The airport cluster is Belgium's second largest growth engine. On the other hand, Brussels also has enormous assets, assets as a political, diplomatic and economic hub in the heart of Europe. Brussels is the most western hub of the Lufthansa group, compared to flights to the east coast of the United States and a gateway to Africa. I believe that if we play out these advantages, there will be plenty of potential for the development of Brussels as an airport hub. That is our approach to the negotiations with Lufthansa. Those negotiations take their time; they are complex. Will the Belgian government play a role? That depends on a number of things. I have often indicated that we are now facing a shrinkage period, but the real question is what happens after the shrinkage. Are we making full use of the potential of Brussels to develop Brussels Airlines in the same way that Lufthansa's other subsidiaries have been able to develop? It is essential for us to have equal treatment in that group. Development must, of course, be environmentally sound and offer a perspective for the right development in the field of employment. It has been a very long period of uncertainty for everyone in the airport cluster, not just for the employees of Brussels Airlines. Hopefully, together with Lufthansa, I will do everything I can to bring that uncertainty out of the world as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u40	Minister, I understand that you cannot say much, but you are clearly expressing your support for our airport community. This is an important signal, which is greatly appreciated. I see Mrs De Block is here. For Flemish Brabant it is a very important file. Today 1,500 naked layoffs are taking place and dozens of other jobs are on the run and in other sectors at the airport are on the run. Minister, I expect from you and from the government this: let Brussels-National play first class. Give that permanent ticket to the home carrier in Star Alliance and our aviation community in Brabant will fix it. We always have, with the attacks, with DHL and with the bankruptcy of Sabena. We are strong, resilient and very dynamic. Give us that first-class ticket and we'll win the game again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u41	Mr President, Minister, either you have lied or your services have given us the wrong information. If you say that you have not unloaded illegal immigrants who have committed acts against public order, while your services claim the opposite, then at least that deserves some explanation. At the beginning of the corona crisis, you released collectively illegals to make way for the closed centers. Just so we're clear, it's about people who don't have a right of residence. They are not refugees, but people who often migrated illegally here, went through a whole procedure, but have no right of residence. They often disobeyed orders to leave the territory. They also beat every offer for voluntary return in the wind. So they deliberately stayed here. Finally, as a final solution, they have ended up in closed centres for return. Of those categories of persons you decided to release more than half of them, a small 300 people who were blurring all the rules to their boots. It would be even worse if, within that category, you had also released persons who have committed criminal or criminal offences or offences against public order, because that would not only involve people who are violating all the rules, but also people who are endangering our security. When we asked you about this, you answered, "There were no people who committed acts against public order at this release." That is a literal quote from the report of the meeting of 29 April. Last week there were hearings with your services and there it was said: "No person with a criminal record, but public order, that is something else of course. People with two or three CVs, that's another matter." Madam Secretary, I would have liked clarification from you. What's the deal now? Did you or did you not release illegals with facts of public order? If so, why did you lie about it? How many people are they, what age and what nationalities, how many of these facts and what facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u42	Thank you, Mrs Van Camp. You want to light a fire here, but the bottom line is that what Mr Roosemont said in committee is the same as what I have said to you several times. Indeed, we had to exempt a number of people from our closed centres because of the corona measures. That was examined on a case-by-case basis. It was people who were at the end of the term, who could not be removed, and it was certainly taken care that it was not people who posed a danger to public order. Mr Roosemont has e-mailed me. We say the same thing. He says: a police report can also be given for drunkenness or illegal residence. We know that there are many minutes for this. Or for other reasons. But the instruction was clear. No people were allowed to be exempted who committed facts against public order. They had to be people who couldn't be removed, or for medical reasons, or they had to be people who were given an order at the end of the legal period. Your colleague, Mr Francken, has had to do so on several occasions. We know this is not new. Even in normal times people are exempted for these reasons. In 2019 and 2018, there were around 250 exemptions per month from these centres. It is therefore not a question of massive exemptions. You're talking about loosenings, but I'm having a hard time with that because it's about people. Those exemptions have been there for the right reasons, to protect the staff and the people in the closed centres from corona. There too, measures had to be taken, and that is what we have done. Not everyone who ever gets a report is a danger to public order. I know you like to play with the words "criminals," "criminal illegals" or "illegal criminals," but I tell you, what happened there was correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, the term 'disclosure' comes literally from the report. I would have liked to play the sound fragment here, but I will repeat it verbatim. "There were at the one-time release" your words "no people who have committed facts against public order." Your services are literally saying that this is another matter as far as public order is concerned, that they cannot assure that there were no people with two or three CVs for facts against public order. I have more confidence in your services than in you, so I think it's very clear who's trying to wipe the truth under the mat. We have asked these questions, with a very clear distinction between those who have committed criminal offences and those who have committed offences against public policy. The colleagues who attended the committee can testify to that. These questions also deserve a correct answer. It is quite clear that you have focused on the collective release of these people who have committed facts against public order. That's incomprehensible. You had better bet on repatriations, like your predecessor Theo Francken. He pushed those numbers up so you could find a place in those centers. But no, you have reopened the asylum crane and you are again asking for additional resources for reception and influx, influx and influx. That's not what people want. It's time to bet...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was a black day for Zaventem airport: 1,500 workers lost their jobs because Swissport went bankrupt. I would, of course, like to wish all the support and strength to those involved and their families on behalf of my group. Colleagues, if 1,500 workers lose their jobs, this is not just a disaster for those workers. It is also a symptom of what is missing in the aviation sector. Do you know how much a baggage dealer makes? It earns 1,600 euros a month, to drag 1,500 suitcases each day, weighing up to 40 kg. That means 30 tons in total every day and in shifts from early morning to late evening, even on weekends, for a wage of 1,600 euros per month. They lose their jobs from one day to the next. These people pay the real price for the cheap airline tickets with which airlines compete. They do heavy work for a low wage and without protection or security. That's untenable. In the aviation sector, too, workers deserve decent wages and adequate protection. Minister, it is now time to give a short-term perspective to those involved as soon as possible. The airport of Zaventem needs a second handling company. The activities are beginning to be restarted. So we're gonna need those baggage dealers. My questions to you are the following. How will you ensure that a second handling company is designated as soon as possible? But more importantly, how do you see a sustainable re-launch of aviation with better protection for workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u45	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I have an emotional thought for those 1,500 workers who are going to lose their jobs. On behalf of my group, I would like to express here my solidarity with these families, whom the crisis is in full swing. Of course, the company's financial health was fragile. Of course, Swissport workers knew that their company might not cope with the shock of containment measures. Nevertheless, the scale and consequences of the tragedy remain the same. The inaction led to the court's bankruptcy decision this week. After Brussels Airlines, TUI, and today Swissport, the air sector as a whole is going through a deep crisis. The workers in the sector are now living in anguish: what if tomorrow was their turn? Colleagues, how many thousands of families will have to be plunged into the uncertainty of the next day to finally begin to wonder about the economic model of airports and air transport in general? More and more flattened costs, institutionalized fragility, and ever more globalised competition as the only remedy. Pseudo-competition has mainly led to a concentration of large operators, who benefit from the systemic fragility of the system. Over the past 30 years, the air force's social conditions have deteriorated as its environmental impact has deepened. We need to put an end to the low cost model. Public authorities can no longer look away. It is time for the State and Europe to realise that workers are not accounting lines in the service of the market. Minister, what will the government do to save as many jobs as possible? How can we avoid further bankruptcies and layoffs? When will we finally reform the economic model of airports and the air sector to put an end to this competition that only destroys jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u46	The bankruptcy of the Swissport company has just been announced, which means that 1,500 workers are thrown in the trash like vulgar paper handkerchiefs. These people have worked hard, transported tons of luggage and worn out. At that company, all the backs are broken. Worked to get all that cargo on those planes, and all that for a miserable wage. Those people are just getting thrown away. Do you know how they learned they were thrown away? By simple e-mail: you are outside. That's our society. That's outrageous. That's degout. The worst thing is that the reason for these working conditions is the fierce competition between two operators, the competition that the liberals love so much, the competition which means that there is no longer any margin, that there is nothing left, that everything is caught up with the workers. What's the result? It is that the surplus-value - money - is concentrated at the airport level itself: Brussels Airport Company. Brussels Airport Company: 390 million euros profit at five years. That's 390 million euros! Where is this money going, colleagues? In the shareholders' pocket, foreign pension funds that suck our workers. How long will we be willing to do that? I hear some orfray screams here. Minister, I didn't hear you. You didn't say anything about that: 1,500 workers and you don't say anything. I have a solution. In many European countries, airports are not private, but public. This is the case in France. In Germany and the Netherlands, the airport is public good. Why don't we do that in Belgium? I'll ask the N-VA. Are you gonna sit back and watch, Theo? There's nothing we can do? Of course we can do something. Marc Descheemaecker, president of the company, can decide that the employees will be taken over by Brussels Airport Company? They've got the money and there's no more competition. What do you think of that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u47	Minister, I have a different angle from my colleague. Today the left-wing and French-speaking parties are actually allowed to crow victory, because it has finally happened: not only is Swissport bankrupt and 1,500 people are on the street, but also at the tax-free shops 180 are fired. However, unlike the left-wing protesters, those people should not come out to express their grief and misunderstanding. This is not only the result of the corona crisis, it is mainly the result of the deliberate sabotage and boycotts of Zaventem airport by the left-wing and French-speaking parties. Look at the kerosene taxes and the mad standards and fines of the Brussels-Capital Region. The Walloon taxpayer has been paying for years to make Charleroi bigger and destroy Zaventem. Today we read that Wallonia is pumping millions again in Air Belgium, which operates from Charleroi. I can still understand those boycotts from Wallonia somewhere, because one is dead and the other is bread. That makes sense somewhere. However, it is incomprehensible that this also happens from Brussels, because a thousand low-skilled Brusselsers have a job there. Mr Minister, I have a simple question. What are you going to do to combat the deliberate sabotage of Zaventem airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is primarily a socio-economic tragedy. And I would like to express our full support to the workers concerned and their families. The Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, the Minister of Employment and I have had the opportunity to meet with the permanent trade unions of Swissport, to whom we have presented a number of elements. First of all, Swissport had been in difficulty for many years; it had accumulated several million euros in deficit, despite a number of passengers who had never reached that level in Brussels. There was therefore a problem of structural management, a problem which led to this large deficit. The advent of the VOCID crisis only exacerbated this problematic financial situation, which led to the company's bankruptcy. We need to know that we learned the news, like you, Monday morning. We were not notified in advance. We didn't get any phone calls. I regret that the bankruptcy decision could not be discussed upstream with the government and the Economic Risk Management Group, which set up a working group on the air sector. To date, 3,000 workers in the handling industry, specifically from Aviapartner and Swissport, have been temporarily unemployed. There have been attempts over the past few weeks to contact Swissport's management, unfortunately without their response. It is particularly difficult to help where this can be done and within the rules that apply to it, if communication is not possible. The three curators confirmed that Swissport ceased its activities on the day after their appointment and that the staff were dismissed. We are waiting for more information. Swissport's activity is a labour-intensive activity directly proportional to the number of travellers. The number of workers is therefore proportional to the volume of passengers, which is almost zero today. Zero! I therefore hope that as airport activities recover, the number of workers needed to carry out these activities will increase again and that the same level of passengers and therefore the same level of workers in the handling sector will be achieved. Workers must now be accompanied as best they can. The Regions will have an important role to play in supporting workers who have been dismissed for training, reintegration, but also in waiting to return the job they had, if that is their choice. Forecasts are currently pessimistic, but demand for handling services will increase again at some point. Qualified and experienced staff will then be needed again. My services and Brussels Airport should therefore speed up the selection of the mandatory second handler at the airport. The procedures have begun and various options are currently under consideration and are expected to be completed quickly. In the meantime, the airport operator shall put in place a temporary solution so that the handling operations can be carried out for all incoming passenger aircraft in order to avoid the landing of the aircraft elsewhere. As of Monday, Brussels Airport will resume considerable airport activity. The handling companies such as Aviapartner will be there with their staff for the time necessary to take over a second handling company and to conclude a contract between the operators and Aviapartner or Swissport. The licences were to be renewed two years ago. We renewed them for short periods because of the difficulties encountered by Swissport. It was therefore through a recapitalisation by Swissport Holding that we were able to renew the licence for the next seven years, because we had to guarantee the absence of social debts or other debts undermining the confidence of creditors. This was the situation a few months ago, but today it was the parent company in Switzerland that decided to file the balance sheet. Mr Hedebouw, you pointed out that prices are relatively low. This is indeed the case with the handling price in Brussels, which is the result of unbridled competition between the handlers a few years ago, so that prices could hardly go up. In my view, this model will not be sustainable, and the unit rates for handling will have to be resumed, particularly in Brussels. As a minister, I always strive to be loyal. For me, a worker, whether he is in Arlon, Charleroi, Antwerp or Ghent, is above all a worker, and you will never find in the politics that I have led, the slightest deviation to this loyalty. The situations of Zaventem and Charleroi are not comparable because, in Charleroi, the airport itself provides handling operations. They also have losses and it is the public sector that will cash (the Soar). In Brussels, the model is different. I hope that all those involved, including the operator, will do everything in their power to participate financially in the resurrection of companies that are indispensable for the resumption of business. This is not only in their interest but also in the interests of workers and the general interest. At some point, it is necessary to be able to pool the resources available to each other in order to ensure the resumption of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to urge you to make sure that a second handling company is found at Zaventem Airport as soon as possible. This brings back perspective for the former Swissport employees. You also put the finger on the wound. It is not true that when passenger numbers increase and aviation takes a high flight, companies fail to make profits and eventually go bankrupt. That is the race to the bottom that is currently taking place in aviation and which has reached its limit. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone agrees that aviation is an indispensable link in our economic system. Then we must ensure that the workers who work at that indispensable link are given decent pay and proper protection. They absolutely deserve more certainty than they do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u50	Minister, I have heard your answers, but we no longer want this low cost model. We no longer want these low cost, ultra-flexible and poorly paid jobs. We no longer accept that workers are systematically the first to be sacrificed. Today, we have to think of the next world. We're starting to create this famous world after. In this world, workers will no longer have to be regarded as accounting lines in the service of the market. I ask you here to take steps to help the air sector and to begin to reform it now so that it is more respectful of workers and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u51	Minister, you have rightly indicated that it was this unbridled competition between Swissport and Aviapartner that led to this social catastrophe and that pulled both down. It's really that economic principle, but that money doesn't disappear. I explained that this added value of the operation was found at Brussels Airport Company. There is a structure that engages 390 million euros. I suggest we check on that. Who's coming for help? Flemish Interest. The Flemish interest says that it is not Mr Descheemaecker's fault, it is not the fault of the airport, but it is the fault of the Walen. The divide-and-control policy really doesn't get in there. In that company Flemings, Walen, Brusselsers, people of all nationalities work. They're gonna give up. And you want to divide and conquer. You are afraid to say clearly that there must be control, as in France, Germany and the Netherlands. There is public control of airports. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u52	Minister, I do not get an answer from you, the loyal minister, to the questions as to why airports are not treated equally and what you will do to ensure that these airports are treated equally. It's clear that this deliberate sabotage doesn't bother you Siberian. You are here as a successor to a minister who has already resigned because he completely misjudged safety in Zaventem. Now it's a step further. You don't care about Zaventem at all. You're making sure there's just no more Zaventem. Now pretend your heart bleeds with those many fired is a little hypocritical. Just give all those workers an honest answer and just tell them that the francophone in this country is fully developing Charleroi airport and that Zaventem airport must be destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u53	Mr President, on 26 May my colleague Samyn also tabled a question on the absence of a royal decision on the holiday allowance for the unemployed. The Chambers have tried correctly to link that question to Mrs Kitir's question, but the cabinet has refused because the question would be too extensive. Holiday money is of course linked to holiday days, just like the year-end bonus. I do not think it is right for Mr Samyn, who submitted her question three weeks ago, to wait for the debate to be held in committee next week, while the Minister is here today to answer. I want to see to it that such matters are not refused by the Cabinets in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u54	You're telling me that now, Mrs. Pas. I'll have that examined. By heart, of course, I have no knowledge of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u55	Madam Secretary, the corona crisis makes it clear that we need a strong government. The lockdown forced many companies to close down. The government has not been idle and has quickly come to the aid of all kinds of measures, such as the bank guarantee, the bridging loan, the compensation premium, the nuisance premium and the temporary unemployment scheme specifically introduced for the COVID-19 crisis. I would like to dwell on that last measure, which is very important. More than 1 million workers were placed on technical unemployment by the COOVID-19 crisis. This means that the government has taken over the wage costs for those 1 million employees from the employers. That does not seem to me to be underestimating. Make no mistake, colleagues, that does not mean that it is a gift for the employee. The employee has less income because he could not go to work. He gets a maximum of 70% through temporary unemployment, he loses his meal cheques and ecocheques and he gets a lower end-of-year bonus. On top of that, we will not be discussing the calculation of the holiday allowance of workers in temporary unemployment. Madam Minister, I was very surprised by the call made today by the VBO to the government to take on the holiday money of these workers, which employers will have to pay next year. For social security there is a contract between the government, the employees and the employers: everyone does their part and everyone gets their share. That cannot mean that, at a time when things are less, one of the three partners withdraws and leaves the consequences to the others. Madam Minister, can you reassure the workers that the period of temporary unemployment will be included in the calculation of the holiday allowance next year? Do you agree with me that the government does not bear the cost of equalizing the holiday money?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u56	We have been one of the first to use the system of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure and temporary unemployment for economic reasons, a system which we have quickly eased to one of temporary unemployment because of COOVID-19. At the request of the social partners, employers and workers, it was decided to align holidays with working days for all persons in temporary unemployment, so that no holiday days for workers are lost next year. It is true that a few weeks ago the employers asked the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers, Minister De Block and myself to accept the costs of this equivalence. Over the past few weeks, the National Agency for Annual Vacation and the RVA have calculated the possible costs for the holiday allowance for workers that would result from the equivalence. The cost of equalization for workers is 380 million euros, which for servants is 200 million euros. This is an estimate, because everything depends on the number of people who remain in temporary unemployment, on the speed with which workers return to work and on the impact of the crisis in the coming period. The file was first discussed in the nuclear cabinet yesterday. We'll look into it further. Let me give you this in advance: over the last few months, we have intervened in the labour costs of 1.2 million workers. That's never been seen. In the meantime, we have drawn and approved the map of short-term support measures. In fact, last Saturday, we had discussions with the Group of Ten, because we must do a balancing exercise in which we maintain the temporary unemployment scheme for those who need it, while at the same time taking sufficient action to enable workers to get back to work. We have adopted a measure to address the problem of the farm levy of more than EUR 450 million. That's not very small. Anyway, the discussion is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u57	Madam Secretary, I am glad that you, along with me, agree that much has already happened. It is also important to underline that the government has taken over employers' wage costs. I am addressing the colleagues from Open Vld. Again today I have heard you talk about sintering Klaa politics. The government has taken over the wage costs of more than 1 million employees from employers. I hear you're engaged in talks with the ten parties, Madam Secretary. I hope that there will be no more discussion and that the days of temporary unemployment will count at all for the calculation of the holiday allowance. That KB has been issued, so I'm assuming that nothing will change in that regard. If this discussion is to begin, we must take account of it, so that there is a balance and everything is fairly divided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u58	Mr President, Minister, most European countries will soon be reopening their borders, to the relief of many people looking forward to the summer holidays and hoping that their already booked journey can take place. Others have waited with a booking pending a relaxation. Now that the borders are opening, there are massive journeys booked. People are looking forward to their summer trip. They've often saved up a lot of money for it. A journey is the preferred way for many to recharge the batteries for the coming year. Once again, there is hope that we will be able to travel in safe conditions. In addition to that hope, there has been a cold shower for many consumers in recent days. Travel organisers such as TUI, Ryanair and Brussels Airlines canceled their travels massively for the months of July and August. As a reason they gave up force majeure as a result of the corona crisis, which is initially understandable. The good news is that the consumer can get a voucher to the value of the booked trip or flight, which simply allows the consumer to book the same trip at another time. However, it turns out that people can only book the same trip or flight at another time if they put a lot of money on top of it. So they are getting less value for money, which is incomprehensible and unacceptable. People are rightly angry and disappointed. I was therefore very happy to hear from you yesterday evening that these practices of the tour operators could not and that you rejected them. You immediately instructed the Economic Inspectorate to investigate this. Madam Secretary, what exactly will the Economic Inspectorate investigate? When can we receive the results? If infringements are detected, what are the possible sanctions? We also get a lot of complaints from consumers who are sent from the cabinet to the wall. They sometimes wait hours on the phone for an answer from the tour operator. They're abandoned and left with a lot of questions. Madam Secretary, what do you advise these consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u59	Mrs Dierick, thank you for your question. When I received a number of complaints in recent days about the practices whereby flights that are now booked are cancelled a few days later and where another, often much more expensive, proposal is received, I asked the Economic Inspectorate to start an investigation. The investigation is in full swing, but I can't tell you when it will be completed. All I know is that everything is being done to make this happen quickly. The research is mainly based on the rules on unfair commercial practices towards consumers. Unfair commercial practices are prohibited and there are criminal sanctions that go up to EUR 80,000. They can go up to EUR 200,000 when bad faith can be demonstrated. After my intervention yesterday I received a letter from TUI, from which I will read. They sincerely apologize for what they call a poor customer communication: "It has never been our intention to make customers pay more for their journey, without their will to change the departure and/or return date. The fact that this has been communicated to certain customers is a regrettable mistake that should not have happened. At present, all customers concerned are contacted as a matter of urgency to rectify the situation and to provide them with the assurance that, as the case may be, their holidays can continue as planned, or that they can opt for a different holiday for the original booking price, or that they are offered a different travel date." It is clear that I will follow closely the response I have received from TUI to ensure that the commitments made here with regard to travellers are also met effectively. However, I must inform you that more than 500 complaints have already arrived at the FPS Economy hotline, not only about TUI, but also about other airlines. Those reports are all delivered to the Economic Inspectorate. If there are any notifications to do, it is good to do so via the hotline. The FPS Economy follows this up, passes it on to the Economic Inspectorate and, when there is clarity, will provide everyone with an appropriate answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for your very clear and positive reply. I understand, of course, that it has not been an obvious time for the travel sector either. They have been scared for months and have experienced a lot of uncertainty about employment in their sector and about the provision of their services. It is precisely to protect the whole travel sector that you have developed the unique voucher scheme, which is a very good arrangement. That is why it causes so much disbelief when it is being abused at the consumer's hood. Thank you, too, for reporting the letter. It is a very good signal that TUI now wants to apologize for the wrong communication, the mistakes or the fact that society was not doing well. For many consumers, it is a relief to have more clarity. Therefore, I certainly support your call to consumers, if any such mistakes have been made, to report them to the focal point of the FPS Economy. Madam Minister, I hope that the other tour operators too are very well aware that, once an organizer has deceived a consumer, that consumer will book his next trip with another tour operator. I therefore hope that we will also receive a clear signal from the other tour operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u61	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u62	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u63	I have received amendments to the bill (Ms. Meryame Kitir and Anja Vanrobaeys) to suspend the notice periods for leave given before or during the period of temporary suspension of the performance of the contract of employment due to force majeure due to the crisis of the VOCID-19, Nos. 1212/1 to 10. I have received amendments to the bill (Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys) suspending the notice period for redundancies given before or during the period of temporary suspension of the implementation of the contract of employment due to force majeure following the COVID-19 crisis, Nos 1212/1 to 10. I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendment in committee. I heard there was going to be an agreement. The committee can come together now. In the course of the meeting, if there is white smoke in the committee, we will come back to that. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. The committee will meet in the Europe room, on the second floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u64	Mr President, all of this could have been deferred to the probable special committee that will be set up later to analyse the crisis and its management. Since there is a specific demand in this market and the Minister of Defence is completely transparent in this area, there is no problem with this being done in the Court of Auditors. In the recitals, there were some indelicates, particularly with regard to in camera, and it was better not to decide on that basis. In principle, we are building consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u65	I will make this request to the Court of Auditors, with the agreement of the House. I will therefore write a neutral letter to the Court of Auditors, without the considerations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u66	Mr President, as chairman of the Committee on Army Purchasing and Sales, I felt that when this order of business came to light, it was because of the mail traffic that took place between the Secretariat, myself and Mr Freilich. I checked that e-mail traffic again just to be clear. I would just like to point out to Mr Freilich that we have not spoken in any way about an investigation in that mail traffic. It was definitely about an analysis. I do not need to explain to you the difference between an analysis by the auditorate of the Court of Auditors and an investigation by the Court of Auditors, my colleague. I hope so. The fact is, Mr Freilich, that you have not been denied access in any way because of your person or because of your party. But it is because of the fact that there was no closed investigation file. I refer to Rules 33 to 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors. I'm sure you've read that in depth. Having said that, when I read the preambles, I found that you were a little forgave me the pun "Wouldn't" on the complaining wall. Having said all this, Mr President, I can tell you that we also want to clarify and clarify this dossier of Flemish Interest, and that we will certainly support your request for transparency in this now notorious blundersaga, and therefore your request for an inquiry by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u67	We agree with what Mr Piedboeuf said. Please allow me to say that I think this is a rear-guard fight. I understand you've been bitten into that file. Honestly, this file doesn't concern a lot of people. In the meantime, anyone can buy masks. Of course, I welcome the fact that the Minister is creating openness and transparency in this, but this is a rearguard fight typical of politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u68	Mr Verherstraeten, my intention was not to hold a major debate because there is a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u69	Some of them are stimulating me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u70	You know I can't refuse you anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u71	Of course, the importance of the mouth masks affects all Belgians. For the record and for the record, Mr President, I assume that no one would object to the Court of Auditors carrying out an investigation in this area, but that you would actually order the Court of Auditors to carry out the investigation by letter, with the informal approval of the Chamber. So we are not going to vote on a motion here today, otherwise we will have to go to a resolution. That's what you just announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u72	In the past, I have tried to give the chairman a greater authority in the Rules of Procedure Committee to consult the Court of Auditors, as is the case with the Council of State. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure was a little reluctant. That is why I come to the plenary in a heartfelt manner, but I note that the plenary is in agreement with it. In that case, the proposal of order motion is not without its object, but only the decision-making part is important. I'll make it mine. I'll ask the Court of Auditors to investigate. The difference with what the auditors would do now is that it has a public character. The Minister himself says, through a number of colleagues, that he has no problem with that, quite the contrary. This is in the interests of the transparency of the Chamber. Mr Freilich, if you join me, we will be through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u73	Mr President, of course you know the Rules of Procedure as your inner pocket and you use them conveniently. Thank you for supporting us in this. First of all, I would like to thank all the groups who supported my question. I hear this is a rear-guard fight, but this is happening and square public and it's in the paper every day. Everyone has questions and concerns, because it is a large sum of money which will be transferred to Luxembourg tomorrow and which will probably go to Panama from there. So there are and continue to be questions. What is the difference between an analysis and an investigation? I think it is quite clear what will happen now in the Army Procurement Committee. The people seconded by the Court of Auditors assist the committee and can make an analysis and give tips on the basis of the documents. However, that is not the same as an investigation. In an investigation there are more steps, because the DOD can get the report afterwards and give its opinion. Furthermore, an investigation is also public. It reveals the problems and provides solutions to deal with them in the future. An analysis doesn't have any of that. It is also important that the Committee on Army Procurement meets behind closed doors. I have just listed in my question to the Minister ten different things that have gone wrong in this dossier. I see that this lives with people, because every day we hear that things aren't right. I asked how companies who gave references for the purchase of mouth masks had to hear afterwards that they had not given references. That is a question that needs to be examined and I do not know whether an analysis is the right means to do so. I think we need an investigation into this. The same applies to the NBN standard that suddenly changed three days before the conclusion, and course the route. Can we do that? Those are matters which the Court of Auditors can certainly examine, because there are different technical rules that must be followed in public procurement. Can we decide to amend the standard three days before the end of a tender application in which hundreds of firms participate? After all, all these firms have been working for days to target their bid on a different specific standard. That is why it is important for the Court of Auditors to be able to verify that everything has happened correctly. Two weeks ago, the Minister said that the Court of Auditors had requested all the documents and was looking forward to an investigation. Then a lot of people thought there was an investigation going on. The Minister himself also considered that there was an investigation. He also said this to Mr De Vriendt in committee when he asked him how far the investigation was going. The Minister replied that the investigation was ongoing, but now it is not. That is why I am pleased that we can still have an investigation today. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their participation and cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u74	For a good understanding, I can see that several colleagues are still asking to speak. Why, for God's sake, let it go fast if it can last forever? That is sometimes the motto of the Chamber. Mr Leysen and Mr Piedboeuf ask for the floor, while I received a positive answer to my question as to whether there was a consensus on my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u75	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u76	That is what I was going to say, Mr Verherstraeten, but I am glad that you say it in my place: non bis in idem. I will send the letter to the Court of Auditors. We're not going to anticipate the outcome. I would also like to inform the Court that the Council of State has been apprehended by a party who feels disadvantaged and that an internal audit has also been requested. The investigations will be ongoing and the Court will be able to take note of the conclusions. That's how it belongs in a parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vanbesien refers to his written report. Mr Van der Donkt has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank Mr Dieter Vanbesien virtually for his very interesting report. He must have seen it. Otherwise, the Greens will undoubtedly convey the message. Minister, when we started discussions on the provisional twelfths for April, May and June 2020 on 11 March 2020, we lived in another time. Unfortunately, in the meantime, the corona crisis has permeated all sections of our population and society. The first measures in the fight against coronavirus were announced on 12 March 2020. Since we did not yet have a real view of the real cost of these measures, you then tabled an amendment to the initial draft law to add an interdepartmental commission of EUR 1 billion to the provisional appropriations for the period April, May and June 2020. Because the N-VA believes that the government should provide security to the population in uncertain times and also because the government must have the means to show decisiveness, our group strongly supported your amendment, both in committee on 16 March 2020 and in plenary on 19 March 2020. However, it was already very clear to us at the time that the EUR 1 billion commission would not be enough. However, with this amount of EUR 1 billion, the government was able to meet the most urgent needs, for example, and not least for additional investments in health care. The draft bill now before the vote adds a further EUR 1 billion to that inter-departmental commission, because, of course, the first EUR 1 billion disc has already been fully spent, which is understandable. At the committee meeting, Minister, you replied to our questions about the use of these funds. You will also provide additional explanations next Tuesday. We know, for example, that some EUR 830 million of that first billion went to the Public Health Office. We understand more than anyone that the needs are particularly high. In committee, I said that our group, which feels supported by other groups, considers it particularly important to have a detailed overview of the distribution of the first disc and also of the second one, i.e. a total of EUR 2 billion. An essential condition for the allocation of funds from this commission is that expenditure is and remains related to the fight against the corona crisis, as Mr Leysen has just mentioned. We have to deal with this very wisely. This commission should not, of course, be used to fill wells or cover costs that have nothing to do with the pandemic that unfortunately is currently ugly. For this reason, a detailed overview is particularly important for our group. In addition, we constantly ask for updates on current spending. I would like to stress that it is extremely important for the federal government to have an effective and efficient policy. That is why we need to have a normal budget as soon as possible, although it is not self-evident at present. In committee, I mentioned this yesterday, and I was able to conclude from your reaction that you can agree to that. People now, more than ever, need certainty and clarity. It is therefore up to us, ministers and Members of Parliament, to do everything in their power to give the people that certainty, clarity and determination. That is why we will support the amendment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u79	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this exceptional procedure calls for an additional EUR 1 billion for this Parliament. A commission of EUR 1 billion, a savings pot of EUR 1 billion, in Belgian terms it might be better to speak of an extra pit of EUR 1 billion. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, in March we released a well of EUR 1 billion. This adds an additional well of EUR 1 billion. What surprises us, above all, is the way in which that happens. Your minority government decided to spend an additional billion on top of the billion we released in March 2020, without first knowing Parliament. On 26 May 2020, you presented this laundry list of about EUR 917 million of corona measures to the Finance Commission, but you said that at least EUR 200 million of additional expenditure would be committed. So Parliament is actually being asked today to back up these decisions and expenditure. First, spending the money and then approving it is the reverse. I am new to this House, but normally the government makes a proposal and Parliament decides. That didn't happen here. We do not believe that this is the right course of action. We are experiencing exceptional times, which, of course, require exceptional measures. After the corona crisis comes a very severe economic crisis. About EUR 50 billion of prosperity has now been wiped out and the headlines of the newspapers state that our budget deficit has now risen to EUR 50 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u80	If there is a second wave of the virus, which we hope will never happen, we risk losing another EUR 35 billion in prosperity. Just as my party was the first to ask questions in this House about the economic impact of the corona crisis, we also want to warn today about the depth of this economic crisis. We will approve this additional EUR 1 billion, but not without expressing the necessary reservations in this House. I would like to make two further comments in addition to the speech by Mr Van der Donkt. First of all, Minister, we think that your demand for extra money today is a painful example of how the impact of the corona crisis was very much underestimated in the beginning. On 11 March, the remaining government was planning to spend only EUR 15 million extra, on top of the ordinary budget. Just five days later, Minister, you announced in a press release that you were putting forward an exceptional budget commission of EUR 1 billion. Now, after that first billion was spent, faster than expected, the government is accelerating the opening of a second one of EUR 1 billion. The situation was therefore greatly underestimated in March, just as today the size of the economic crisis in the coming weeks and months is underestimated. I am referring, among other things, to the almost surrealistic nature with which the provisional twelfths were approved in committee yesterday. The Governor of the National Bank warned this week that the government deficit and debt in this country are rising to unsustainable levels in the medium term. Those are not our words, but the words of the Governor of the National Bank: deficit and public debt are rising to unsustainable levels. This is, of course, in stark contrast to the indulgence within the walls of this Parliament. We will no longer be able to explain this to anyone outside Parliament. A second critical note is that one can honestly ask whether the first billion was actually spent efficiently. Then I express myself very carefully, with all due respect, and I am still very friendly. Whoever walks through the minister's laundry list sees a number of blunders of the corona government pass. For example, we see EUR 48 million for the mouth masks of Defense, which were purchased from, among other things, the disputed Luxembourg postal bus company Avrox. This is called a rearguard fight by Open Vld, disrespecting the hard-earned tax dollars of our citizens. It is also a file that continues to cause fuss in the media week after week, recently about the washability of these masks. For example, we also see that EUR 7 million was spent on Minister Koen Geens' mouth mask filters, which proved to be incompatible with the ordered mouth masks. We also see that EUR 3 million has been spent on the repatriation of Belgian residents abroad, but that has also been anything but smooth. Finally, Minister, with our approval of this billion, we expect a small EUR 15 million of this extra billion to be used to honour one of the promises made by this minority government. Remember, at the beginning of April, Minister of Finance Alexander De Croo promised a bonus of about 1,500 euros to the caregivers. A so-called corona premium for doctors, nurses and all other care providers who have given the best of themselves in the past crisis. That was one of the measures agreed upon by the minority government. The government was counting on about 10,000 applications, bringing their cost to 15 million euros. We clapping our hands every day with the whole neighborhood and hanging white sheets from the windows to show respect for the women and men in care. It is one thing to rightly call these people the heroes of the war against the coronavirus, but let us now also reward them. We want the minority government to keep that promise, if not next week, when we discuss the provisional twelfths in Parliament, we will table an amendment to grant the promised coronabonus. Promise makes you guilty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u81	Mr President, for me it is the fifth time we have talked about provisional twelfths, for some it is the seventh time. I have always understood that provisional twelfths are a temporary emergency measure to cover a short period of time pending the submission of a real budget. When one is in the seventh edition, it is of course no longer a provisional measure, but a piece of work to which there are many adjustments and to which an interdepartmental commission has been added due to the corona crisis. I would point out that Councillor Pierre Rion has said that we are very far from the original spirit of the provisional twelfths. However, I am surprised at a number of colleagues. The pot blames the kettle for looking black, I'd say. I'll go over the list. They say that we have to be careful, but they want to pay corona premiums, they want a VAT reduction on electricity, they support DéFI's proposal to reduce VAT on soap, the N-VA wants a zero rate on protective clothing, the sp.a proposes to reduce VAT on hearing aids. There is EUR 600 million in the helicopter money tunnel of the PS and after miners' pensions a similar measure is being considered for the police services. Of course I'm worried. I read that Marc Coucke says that if he were to run his business as Parliament does today with the government budget, he would be bankrupt for a long time. Of course, the threshold for a country to go bankrupt is much higher, but countries can also go bankrupt. I can only agree with what the Prime Minister has just said: it is high time for a government to create a budget, because a budget also presupposes a budgetary control. In the end, pointing out provisional appropriations repetitively is a budgetary policy without budgetary control, and that cannot continue. In today's exceptional circumstances, we will give our support to this adjustment for the costs that have been incurred and which have been clearly explained. I am confident that the Minister will give a very broad explanation of the evolution of expenditure, as he has always done in committee over the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u82	Mr Leysen, I do not know if you are reading De Tijd, but below that EUR 50 billion is EUR 13.5 billion. He was already there for corona. You pretend it doesn't exist, but that's the painful legacy of you and your party. You can't deny that here. We will continue to remind you of that. We are not discussing the provisional twelfths here. This is an adjustment to the previous provisional twelfths we granted in March. Next week we will discuss the new provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u83	Colleagues, the new disc of the provisional twelfths will be for a little later. You guys are wrong about debate sometimes. We all need a full budget. We said that again yesterday. However, a full budget also requires a full government. Colleagues, to form a government one must work together in this country. I invite everyone to leave their own rigid ideological paths and work together and form a government. We all want a government. Then act accordingly. Everybody! Then about the file before us. The sp.a will support this additional EUR 1 billion loan which will be added to the interdepartmental commission, to the EUR 1 billion already added by Parliament in the preparation of the law of 23 March. The EUR 1 billion is not enough. We have been given a list for which this money has been used: masks, medicines, protective clothing, etc. We are giving this support, because this is expressly stated in the draft law, which provides for an additional EUR 1 billion in the interdepartmental commission to be used only for combating COOVID-19 and its socio-economic consequences. The government, with the support of Parliament, must be able to make the necessary and urgent expenditure to tackle the crisis decisively. We're gonna go with that ghost. We have already talked about the extra billion, and with Mrs De Block, too, it is likely to have to be used to provide additional funding for these hospitals. We must therefore be able to do this urgent expenditure. What is still needed in addition to this urgent expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, is an efficient, effective and balanced relay plan, a story by and for everyone. For the sp.a Group, this means support for families, residents and businesses affected by this crisis. It goes in the direction of what we call a new social deal, with a strong government, in which everyone affected companies, families and residents can progress. The plan must be balanced and balanced. I hope that, thanks to cooperation, we will be able to do so this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u84	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the members of the House who supported this text in committee. I won't be very long in my presentation. Indeed, it is simply a matter of releasing additional appropriations to the tune of EUR 1 billion, which will be added to the EUR 1 billion already provided for in the law of 23 March 2020. They will be used exclusively for the fight against coronavirus and the socio-economic impacts of the crisis. If these needs prove to be lower, the provision will obviously not be consumed entirely. I can give you an account of the situation on 2 June; it is the same as the one I gave you in committee the day before yesterday. Next Tuesday, as promised, we will take stock very precisely, as you asked, Mr Van der Donckt, SPF by SPF. We will thus have a very detailed view of the use of this provision. I will simply repeat here that as of 2 June, EUR 904 million is already being used; 820 for the Health FPS, mainly purchases of protective masks, protective equipment and tests and medicines. You have already talked about the forty-eight million, which are linked to the command, made by the Defence, of protective masks for the population. There are 15 million for subsidies to CPAS under social assistance and 7 million for the purchase of filters. There are three million for the purchase of media; this is a campaign to promote the disease. There are three million for the financing of the VOC-AID study by the Federal Centre of Expertise, three million for the repatriation of Belgians abroad, one million for the police who had to buy masks, one million for the monitoring missions and the operation of the Crisis Centre, and one last million to extend the winter reception of homeless people. I presented the same painting to you two days ago. As I have just said, on Tuesday I will give you additional elements and more details, SPF by SPF. For the rest, I do not think there have been any other specific questions. Mr President, I have thus taken stock of the current situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u87	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1219/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1219/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Ingels, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u90	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1072/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1072/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u92	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marianne Verhaert, Tim Vandenput, Christian Leysen, Emmanuel Burton.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Van den Bergh, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (769/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (769/4) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u96	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marianne Verhaert, Kathleen Verhelst.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u98	I refer to the written report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the North Sea is our blue gold. It may not contain oil or gas, but it is a huge windy surface, which can be of invaluable energy value. Besides the sun, wind is the most important renewable energy source in our country. Renewable energy is the future and the North Sea and the windmills at sea play a crucial role in the energy transition towards more renewable energy. Minister De Backer has also made real work of this legislature with the construction of additional windmills. For the construction and maintenance of offshore installations such as the offshore wind farms, there should be a daily risk between ports and those installations, which is done with specially designed vessels. As they can carry more than 12 passengers, the rules for passenger vehicles apply. That is, of course, right, because the safety of ordinary travellers must be guaranteed. However, staff on board these vessels are not ordinary passengers: they are used to working at sea under difficult conditions. In addition, they have had a medical check-up and are obliged to take a course on safety at sea. With this proposal we want to exempt the transport of industrial personnel from the strict rules for passenger vehicles, within the guidelines drawn up by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Besides, our neighbouring countries have already implemented these directives in their legislation. As a result, a vessel from Vlissingen or Dunkirk on its way to a windmill park at sea is exempted from the rules, while the same journey from Ostend requires compliance with the rules for passenger vehicles. With the legislative proposal we want to eliminate this competitive disadvantage and create a level playing field, regardless of the port of departure and, of course, in accordance with IMO rules. I would like to thank colleagues from the committee for their support for the important and necessary legislative proposal that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u100	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u101	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (899/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (899/3) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u103	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u105	I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u106	Mr President, we immediately supported Mr Van den Bergh's proposal for a repair in committee. It should make the existing road code more transparent and applicable, not least for a number of projects under the green square. These projects have been launched today and will be able to be re-launched thanks to this repair law, which will, of course, improve road safety. We have no further substantive comments, but we would like to reiterate our support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u107	Mr President, as Mr Raskin pointed out, this is a repair proposal. So it's not exactly a bill to be very proud of, as it has to fix a bill about two years ago. On the other hand, the then bill was simply the adoption of an article from the proposal for a new road code. However, this new road code could not be completed during the previous legislature, so we had to work with a separate legislative proposal to get the principle of square green into the road code. Before that, we literally adopted the text that was prepared for the new road code. However, that did not seem to be exactly what it was supposed to be, hence this new bill. We explained in detail the advantages of the square green last year. It mainly means that crossroads can be built conflict-free, which is very important for the vulnerable group of cyclists. If people know that more than one fatal accident in five in our country is a cyclist, then it is clear that we need to focus on that target group in order to increase road safety. In the old text it was not quite clear who was allowed to cross when the square lit green. Was it just about cyclists or all users of the cycle path? Because of this uncertainty, the city of Antwerp decided to stop the four ongoing pilot projects. Therefore, through the present bill, we ensure that all users of the cycle path are without any doubt, i.e. both motors, cyclists themselves but also mopeds class A and B or speed pedals, if they are allowed to use the cycle path, can also use the square green and no longer hinder the other cyclists. With this adjustment, there is no longer any reason not to use the square green for certain intersections and not to make those intersections conflict-free. It is not suitable for all intersections, but at certain intersections it can really be a step forward for road safety. As has already been said, the adjustment will extend the regulation of cyclists to all users of the cycle path. In addition to the provision on square green, this legislative proposal will also correct a number of textual uncertainties about cycling zones and school streets, thus removing legal uncertainty in these areas as well. In any case, I would like to thank the committee members for their prompt and broad support in discussing the proposal, which removes an obstacle to the application of square green at certain intersections, which represents a step forward for the road safety of cyclists. Isn't that why we're doing it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u108	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u109	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (849/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (849/6) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u111	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Joris Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u112	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u113	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vandenbroucke's legislative proposal addresses a very real problem. It ensures that in the event of congestion, motorists are obliged to create space in any case, creating a kind of rescue strip. In this way, there is an anticipation of possible accidents, whereby incoming emergency services can use the created rescue lane. In this way they no longer lose time, because they no longer have to pave the way between stationary vehicles, as is the case today. We will fully support this bill, which meets a real problem. However, this legislative proposal cannot be separated from its own legislative proposal on the flow of these priority vehicles. Both texts took shape on the basis of a very interesting hearing on this broad theme. None of my colleagues will perhaps contradict me when I say that almost all the specialists who reviewed the two texts, the one before me today and the other from my hand, have clearly demonstrated the link between them. Basically, one text cannot go without the other. Allow me to put it this way. Mr Vandenbroucke's bill paves the way, the own bill creates a legal basis for driving through it as well. Ideally, Flanders states in its opinion, both legislative proposals should be introduced jointly. However, since my own text still needed to be adapted to, among other things, the negative opinion of the Walloon Region on the initial text, with an argument for which there is something to say, this would mean that this legislative proposal by Mr Vandenbroucke, which is already ready, could not be dealt with in plenary today. That is why, despite the suggestion that both texts should be introduced together, I have no problem at all in supporting the colleague's proposal today. I would like to take this opportunity to inform all colleagues from our committee that the amendments which bring my own legislative proposal into line with the comments and opinions of the regions are almost ready. I invite all committee members to support it at the next committee meeting on Mobility with legislative work, so that we can strengthen the text that I believe we will be able to adopt today and introduce a diptych. It would improve road safety and the smooth and safe flow of priority vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u115	This proposal, tabled by Mr Vandenbroucke, is designed to ensure, as Mr Raskin has already explained, that priority vehicles can get on the ground faster by creating some sort of free-trade. So they can get faster in the event of an accident, for example. During the hearings, the various experts agreed that uncertainties and a lack of proper regulation regularly lead to arbitrariness and chaos. We have probably all seen it before how we hear the alarm signal of a priority vehicle on the lane and not know how best to react. The experts also pointed out that the road code, which has been in force since 1975, is urgently needed to be updated. They argued that he should be simplified and be less interpretable. I would like to take this opportunity to call on a new government to make a real effort to update the road code so that it is adapted to today's society and the public space is distributed more fairly among the different road users. In an ideal scenario, we could already vote on such a road code today, but today we are voting on the introduction of the rescue strip, such as the Rettungsgasse, which exists in Germany and Austria. The adjustment requires that, from the moment that traffic jams occur, a free track is created, as cars move to the extreme side of their driving compartment. It has been shown abroad that this is an efficient way of getting priority vehicles on the ground faster. It is important, however, that their application in the Belgian road code makes drivers aware of it through campaigns, information videos and information signs along the way which indicate the correct modalities. As in the committee, the Ecolo-Green Group will support the proposal, but we do not think it is enough simply to put the lifeline in the road code, but also to make it sufficiently sensitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the present legislative proposal is certainly noble and, as we have already pointed out in committee, is also supported by the Flemish Interest. After all, it is very important that there is an efficient system which allows priority vehicles in traffic congestion to reach the location of an emergency as quickly as possible and, above all, as safely as possible. After all, every minute and perhaps even every second can make a world of difference for a possible victim. The present legislative proposal constitutes such a system. It regulates, by prescribing rules of conduct for drivers of a vehicle in the event of traffic congestion, the creation of a lifespan. However, there is a small nuance to it. In our opinion, there is something missing from this proposal, as we have already pointed out in committee. There's a slight flaw. The regulations for motorcyclists are not being adapted. Article 16.2a of the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down general rules for the police of road traffic and the use of public roads lays down specific provisions for motorcyclists in the event of congestion. During the discussion of this bill, the Vlaams Belang therefore tabled amendments in committee to also provide for an amendment of the specific regulations for motorcyclists. We regret that the amendments we have tabled, or rather additions, are not, after all, adapting the existing text, because it was completely okay for us, it is rather an addition, we did not find a majority in the vote in committee. This sends the wrong signal to motorcyclists, as if they were considered less important than motorists, while motorcyclists are more vulnerable in traffic; it is simply not logical, as motorcyclists are just driving on the life lane created by the present legislative proposal. In addition, we are manifesting ourselves with the advice of the Flemish Region, which clearly states that it is also necessary to lay down how other road users should behave, alongside us. Colleagues, the purpose of this legislative proposal is correct and is supported by us. However, it is our job here in this House to bring about good laws, to do correct, unambiguous and, in this case, complete legislative work. Let us therefore do so in this case. That is the duty of all of us as MEPs. That is why I am again putting to the vote today the addition of an amendment to the regulation of motorcyclists. I hope and call for common sense and responsibility to be used in the assessment of its content, and perhaps a measure of political courage will be shown by choosing to do full and good legislative work by adopting these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group, too, will support the present proposal to add a lifeline to the road code. It shall be chosen to prevent the creation of rescue lanes on roads with two or more lanes per direction of travel, so that emergency services are provided with free passage whenever necessary. Beginning maneuvering in an already formed file is much more difficult and increases the risk of small collisions. Some questions had arisen in the last few days. It is indeed about two lanes in the same direction. There must be no misunderstanding about that. As my fellow Members have already said, the idea of the rescue strip is widely supported by emergency services, such as the fire department and ambulances. They are already learning to drive through the rescue lane today when there is a traffic jam due to an incident. The advantages are more margin on both sides, more overview of traffic, better visibility, easier communication with other road users, automatically controlled speed and so on. The drawbacks of a bad track are that it is careful for the presence of debris, that priority vehicles are often hidden behind trucks, that there are additional risks of ramps and exits, that sometimes the unlucky lane is suddenly interrupted at the height of a bridge, that there is less communication with other road users and so on. There are many disadvantages for the emergency services associated with the use of the unlucky strip and many advantages for the use of the rescue strip and the conclusion is therefore obvious. As Mr Vandenbroucke will make clear in a moment, we see that the principle is working and that it already exists in many European countries today. It is important in this respect, and Mr Buyst has already mentioned it, that there is good sensitisation. Informing road signs, banners and the like will be necessary to clarify what is expected of road users. It is therefore important that, after the adoption of this bill, effective efforts should be made to inform and raise awareness of road users. After all, the law is likely to enter into force in full vacation period. Road users will therefore have to be informed, but this must be possible. Finally, the legislative proposal in itself has no impact on the liability of priority vehicles. The opinions also made this clear in the hearings. I would like to comment on the comments made by Mr Raskin. I do not entirely agree that we would not be able to approve this bill and that it is inextricably linked to its legislative proposal. However, we are looking forward to further discussion of that bill and the amendments. I'm assuming we can look into that next day. We look forward to the continuation of that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone can imagine a road accident on the highway. There is a traffic jam and the emergency services come with moaning sirens and blue wave lightly hit to reach the scene of the accident. Every second counts at such a time, but the emergency services have to get through the traffic jams. Sometimes this can be done via the unlucky strip, but sometimes there is no unlucky strip or it is obstructed. The road code shall provide that, as soon as the special sound equipment announces approaching a priority vehicle, the driver shall immediately clear and give priority to the passage. There is currently no mention of how to do this. Thus, when a priority vehicle is hit, drivers make manoeuvres in all possible directions, resulting in chaos. Of course, this is with the best of intentions, but a clear road will not be possible for the priority vehicle. There is needlessly crucial time lost, while every second counts at such a time to save lives. Open Vld will therefore strongly support Mr Vandenbroucke's proposal to introduce the rescue strip. This proposal makes it very clear what every driver has to do when a priority vehicle is hit in a traffic jam: if you drive left, you drive as left as possible, and everything else tries to drive as right as possible. The rescue strip proves its usefulness in other countries every day, look at Germany and Austria. Important to mention is that this rule does not apply only when a priority vehicle is hit, because then it is often too late to carry out large manoeuvres in a traffic jam. The rescue strip must therefore be formed as soon as there is traffic congestion. I sincerely hope that the proposal will be adopted today, but there is still a lot of work to be done, as Mr Buyst said. Entering a rule is one thing, making it work in practice is a completely different matter. This will also require sensitisation, and we will have to explain how it works and why we have introduced it. This is a task that the regions will have to take on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the explanation of my legislative proposal and for the strong support. I'd like to give you a word of my own. There are, of course, situations where every second, every minute, counts to save lives. That is certainly the case when police, firemen and ambulances are pulling out and on the motorway rushing to an incident to help people there. Today we have two options. The first is the unlucky strip, but it is not everywhere anymore, it is often interrupted, for example by bridge pillars or by ramps and exits, or it is littered with debris. The other option is for emergency services to get through traffic. The road code indeed states that one is asked to make way when one hears the siren. But then it's often too late. People then start looking for a hole with a lot of stress to get rid of their car somewhere. That causes a lot of delays and chaos on the road. I was inspired by what I experienced two summers ago on a South German motorway. Our proposal is inspired by practice abroad in Germany, Luxembourg and Austria. In those countries, drivers on the left lane automatically drive as far as possible to the left and drivers on the other lanes to the right as far as possible, so that there is always a rescue lane where priority vehicles can travel smoothly and safely. I would also like to respond to a number of comments that have been made. If the bill is passed, it will change the traffic congestion in our country. This will indeed be the case in a few weeks' time when it is published in the Belgian Official Journal. I have contacted Vias about this and I have been assured that by then it will be perfectly possible to give people sufficient information about the new practice. I am also, frankly, reassured that this will go fairly smoothly. You may have had to do it yourself in Austria, Luxembourg or Germany. I assume that this went smoothly then, so why shouldn't that be the case here? I would like to address the honourable Members of the Flemish Interest with regard to their amendment. It's not like my bill changes anything about the Schouppe Act. That was never meant to happen. Motorcyclists can keep doing what they've always done to this day. It is also superfluous what you are now trying to put in the bill. Article 38 of the road code states that when a priority vehicle is sounded, it must be removed immediately. This remains in full force, even for motorcyclists who, for example, drive over the rescue lane during traffic jams. There is no legal problem there. The amendment is well-intentioned but superfluous. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for the positive cooperation and support for my legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u121	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (814/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (814/4) The title in French was amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the general regulation on the police of road traffic and the use of public roads with regard to the introduction of an emergency corridor". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the general regulation on the police of road traffic and the use of public roads with regard to the introduction of an emergency corridor". The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u122	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u123	Sustained: the amendments and Article 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u124	Article adopted by article: 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will take place at a later date on the amendments that have been tabled, on the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u126	Not related Without report Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jan Briers, Egbert Lachaert, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Joris Vandenbroucke, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u127	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1109/3) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1109/3) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u128	Mr President, I am surprised to be the first to speak. After all, the main applicant is another member. Thank you for giving me the floor already. The proposal now before us concerns rail line 204. The importance of that railway line is difficult to overestimate. It is a good example of cross-border cooperation between economic operators, transport operators and local authorities. The railway line will ensure more sustainable mobility in the region as well as spatial developments that are more focused on public transport. It also supports the port of Ghent, which is one of Flanders' strategic economic gates. This is also about the first cross-border port company, which we should be proud of on that scale in Europe and even worldwide, especially North Sea Port. The basis is therefore to strengthen and cross-border development of a railway line which can serve as a carrier in the canal zone from Ghent to Terneuzen. The project also has a very large support base. Both the province of East Flanders, the city of Ghent, the province of Zeeland, North Sea Port, various civil society organisations as well as many other municipal authorities, some of which are also here in the room, support the project. So I am very pleased that we can put this resolution on the table here today. She was also worn very widely in the Chamber. It sends out the clear signal, which is also the most important thing we want to demonstrate with this resolution, that the funds entered for railway line 204 will also be used effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u129	Mr President, I can join my colleague from Ghent. The Flemish Interest Group will, of course, fully support this motion for a resolution. The advantages and urgency of both the movement of goods and the movement of persons are clear. I don't think this needs to be repeated many more times. However, it is also important in the context of the North Sea Port project, a bilateral cooperation between Flanders and the Netherlands, something that is quite unique. I believe that we should not, for diplomatic and bilateral reasons, harm these interests and should not be ashamed of them. I would also like to add, on behalf of the Vlaams Belangroep, that this dossier fits into a larger picture. We have long established that investments made by Infrabel and/or SNCB are going systematically and massively to the Brussels-Capital Region, that Flanders pays for this, but at the same time is being treated stepmotherly. Think of the opening of the port of Antwerp by rail, the Lanaken-Maastricht line, the lack of electrification of diesel lines in East Flanders and so on. Flanders finances the studies. Flanders finances matters such as the Brussels Regional Express Network, but it is treated stepmotherly and has to wait, as in the file on the L204 railway line. Flanders must continue to exert pressure where no pressure should really be needed. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little disappointed that there is no report from that committee. It was very remarkable that Mrs Thibaut of Ecolo was very reluctant about this. It was 12:40 p.m., if I am not mistaken, Mr Briers, and Mrs Thibaut of Ecolo did not think it appropriate to adopt that item on the agenda, that resolution. That resolution was adopted in five minutes. However, I note that there is a Community priority, and that Ecolo, and even the PVDA and the PS, do not consider this dossier to be important. For them too, the port of Ghent is a harbinger for economic opening. It is literally and figuratively a port of access and of transfers. I found it hallucinating, especially from Mrs Thibaut, that there was absolutely no pressure on the committee from the French-speaking side to deal with this resolution as a matter of urgency, while it was very clear that this was a priority, not just for Flanders but for the whole of Belgium. Mr Delizée, the chairman of the committee, was also rather reluctant. I conclude from this that air quality in Flanders is less important than air quality in Wallonia. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the Flemish Interest Group will adopt and fully support this motion of resolution, including at local and provincial level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u130	Mr President, we have experienced something special in committee. In 11 minutes I was able to give the explanation, we were able to have the debate and we were able to vote. All the parties in the committee have adopted this resolution. I'm a lucky man. I am glad that we have all approved this together, but it is something very important. This is a crucial part of the Schelde-Seine connection, the Rotterdam-Paris connection over the water. Of course, then we need a railway line that runs along there, so that we can transport the lorries on the train or on the water. That's why that railroad is crucial. This is also crucial because there are 700,000 people living in that transport region and 100,000 people working. The two largest industrial employers in our country are also active there, Volvo and ArcelorMittal. That is why it is also crucial for passenger transport. So we did not understand why Infrabel did not deal directly with this when the funds were released thanks to the fact that the Hamant-Hasselt line is being electrified at Europe's expense. Those resources can then be used for this project, which was decided by the federal government in 2017. We have raised three questions. There is an urgent need for dialogue between Flanders and the federal government, between Mr Bellot and Mrs Peeters. It is also important that Infrabel starts studies immediately. Negotiations with the Netherlands should also be launched. You should know that a motion in the House of Representatives was adopted unanimously in the Netherlands in December of last year. If we could do the same here, it would be a dream. I would like to thank Evita Willaerts, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Egbert Lachaert, Joris Vandenbroucke and all the other parties for their support for this resolution in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not often that we have an almost East-Flemish conversation in the Chamber, but today I think it is right and proper, because I think the political and also the social consensus has been widely supported to ensure that the proposed project succeeds. With the PVDA Group, we also fully support this motion for a resolution. I am here not only as a representative of the PVDA Group, but also as a representative of the local government and the city council of Zelzate. All the parties in the city council of Zelzate have unanimously approved two motions to encourage the federal and Flemish ministers of Mobility to use that choice of words is not accidental to use the registered means effectively for the mentioned rail link. I will not repeat the arguments of my colleagues. Allow me to point out the importance of that rail link from Zelzaat's perspective. The municipality of Zelzate is very strategically located, in the middle of the Ghent-Dampoort and Terneuzen railway line. In addition, Zelzate is centrally located for the Ghent Canal Zone. Zelzate is even right in the middle since the merger of the ports of Ghent and Terneuzen to North Sea Port in 2018. The municipality of Zelzate is not only crossed by the canal Gent-Terneuzen, but is also tightly enclosed by two major traffic axes, namely the R4 and the E34. Large infrastructure works such as channel diversions and canal broadening have always had to endure the municipality of Zelzate. Honestly, Zelzate has always been at risk and was able to benefit from the economic prosperity due to the proximity of the industry. But at the latest channel shift, in 1968, the train station was demolished. Since the major intervention of 1968 on the canal Ghent-Terneuzen, the car strade has gained importance, as the red carpet was rolled out for king car and king truck. We see that the balance has been lost since then for the municipality of Zelzate, because the viability has been more and more compromised. Moreover, the municipality was confronted with nuisance, because two traffic axes literally run through the center of Zelzate. The final part is that the junction where the R4 connects the east to the west lies literally in front of the town hall, which creates a lot of traffic congestion and a true traffic infarct. During the construction of the canal a tunnel was built and a drawbridge was installed. That bridge is now open twenty times a day, causing enormous mobility problems, including for local traffic. Do we not forget the health problems caused by the high noise and the high concentration of particulate matter, not to mention the safety problem for the many pupils of the eight schools in Zelzate because of the large number of trucks that follow the route of the R4. There has always been a need for a smooth flow of national and international traffic. The passage was therefore always very important, while the viability of Zelzate always came second. On behalf of the city council and all inhabitants of Zelzate, I say that we will no longer be patient, while the viability of the municipality will be compromised in the major infrastructure works. We want to actively determine our fate now. In the city council of Zelzate we have already twice tabled a motion asking the ministers responsible to retain the funds committed for the railway line 204. It is a sloppy 12.6 million euros for studying, planning and realizing the connection. This would greatly improve the viability of our municipality. In the design of the master plan for Zelzate we provide for three railway tunnel tubes, which indicates that we are proactively working on this. If there is a railway station in Zelzate, which is also important for the wider region, it would mean huge profits and increase economic potential thanks to more rail freight. The port feels the same and the Dutch House of Representatives has already adopted a motion on this issue. So we have actually been put before us. I hope that the Belgian Parliament will also endorse this motion for a resolution. This not only benefits the viability of Zelzate, but also benefits the hundreds of thousands of employees of the 525 companies in the Ghent-Terneuzen canal zone. If all these workers were to track to and from work, it would be a huge environmental gain. The fine dust would reduce. CO2 emissions would be reduced. That rail link would also solve a lot of the problems in Zelzate. I conclude with a passage from the motion of the city council of Zelzate which reads: "To this day, the port is hardly accessible by public transport. Bus lines are very thin sown and taking the train simply cannot." This year, the municipality of Zelzate also invests more than 1 million euros in the realisation of a new bus station in the city centre. As local government, Zelzate is fully committed to the further development of public transport facilities. To do this, deep in the pouch. The arrival of passenger transport on line 204 and a station would be the perfect and much-needed addition to the existing bus offer, which unfortunately is not sufficient to reach the port, the surrounding municipalities, the canal villages and the companies quickly. The municipality of Zelzate therefore supports any action that could contribute to the realisation of that additional form of passenger transport, which would provide a solution for commuting and working in the canal zone and by extension to Terneuzen. On behalf of the PVDA Group and on behalf of the Zelzaat City Council, we ask the federal government, in particular Minister Bellot, to urge Infrabel to spend the budgets for the L204 railway line as laid down in the strategic multi-annual investment plan 2018-2031, starting as soon as possible with the feasibility study on the 204 railway line, as promised and endorsed at the federal ministerial council of 14 December 2017 and then repeated in November of last year. We ask the government not only to stick to words this time, but also to translate these words into deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has just been said that North Sea Port Flanders is a bilateral cooperation between Flanders and the Netherlands. North Sea Port Flanders is much more than that. It is a real merger of two port companies, Port of Ghent and Zeeland Seaports. It is a truly European transnational port with one company and one CEO, as there are few examples in Europe. North Sea Port is one of the top ten in the European Union in terms of freight traffic and is Europe's third most important port in terms of value added. As we gradually evolve into the post-corona era, we need to see how we can maximize that added value. The motion for a resolution comes as called for. A sustainable opening of North Sea Port Flanders via a railway line, which is already there and which can be extended, is absolutely necessary. This investment is a lever for more growth, economically responsible growth, environmentally responsible growth and growth that is also better for the people who work and live in the port area. That is something the Netherlands already understood, where the colleagues in the House of Representatives already approved a motion a few months ago to investigate the cooperation and make that investment. I am very glad that we in the Belgian Parliament have found a basis for this investment as quickly as possible. Let us hope that the swift approval of the motion for a resolution, as Mr Briers has just said, may be a prelude to the speed with which that investment is made in practice. I would like to thank my colleagues from East Flanders for their speedy cooperation and thank all the groups for their support for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u133	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u134	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u136	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u138	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1253/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1253/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u139	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u140	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1197: Laurence Zanchetta, Patrick Prévot, Özlem Özen, Eliane Tillieux, Hervé Rigot, Eric Thiébaut, Daniel Senesael, Karin Jiroflée - 1236: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet, Vanessa Matz. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two proposals. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u141	The texts adopted by the committees serve as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1197/6) (1236/7) The texts adopted by the committees shall form the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1197/6) (1236/7) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u142	Mr President, unlike previous reports, I would like to report briefly. I promise not to do that in too much detail. I would like to give you a few points from the preliminary discussion of this resolution. This proposal for a resolution was given urgency on 23 April in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis. This was discussed in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities on 5 May, 11 May and 2 June. So there was a lot of work going on. I think a few points from the introductory discussion are important to mention. There are on average 100 complaints of intra-family violence per day in our country. We know that only one in three is reported, so who can count on it, knows how often it occurs. The lockdown caused and still causes terrible situations, in which victims are locked up with the partner who is abusing them, often even in front of the children. The authors and a number of colleagues have called for an Inter-Ministerial Conference to be held at the beginning of April which called for coordination arrangements. We do not find the hot water here: similar initiatives exist in Spain and France. There was also a reference to a letter sent by colleagues Schlitz and Soors on 25 March in which they called for more attention. They also indicated that they were not satisfied with the answers they received weekly to their questions, that the usual instruments were sufficient and that there was no overall plan. On several occasions, reference was also made to what the Länder had already done and what cities and municipalities did on their own. Mr Van Peel asked the explicit question whether this would not exceed the levels of competence, because much is already happening at Flemish level. The question was explicitly asked whether this is not a duplication of effort. In the introduction, I deliberately spoke about intra-family violence and about partners, because there were also a number of comments that this is not just about women, but that men are also the victims. The preliminary discussion concluded that opinions would be requested. Advice from the help line 1712, of the General Pharmaceutical Association (APB), of the Family Justice Center in Limburg, of the Permanent Commission of Local Police and of the CAW Group, has been received in a very short period of time. Because there was doubt about the level of competence, federal or regional, a note was also requested from the Legal Service of the Chamber of Representatives. That service has made a number of suggestions to ensure that there would be no conflict of jurisdiction. These suggestions have therefore been made in a number of amendments. This resulted in many amendments and in a resolution with many recitals and eleven requests. The first request is that the federal government be asked to develop, in close consultation with the representatives of pharmacists, police forces and specialized aid agencies, an instrument for supporting the victims of domestic violence, in which the victims can report the violence they are subjected to to to a pharmacy. That is the most important question, but the resolution goes much further. Let me sum it up in three points. It calls for priority to be given at all levels, especially in conjunction with the Länder of intra-family violence, to go beyond managing the crisis and to focus even more on providing information, including through pharmacists, as well as on sensitisation and training of all those who come into contact with it. There is also the specific question that anyone who has lodged a complaint or made a notification in the last three months is actively followed up by contacting them. Cooperation is a key word that I have often encountered in the report: cooperation with the Länder and with the zero line, which also came out of the opinions, in order to make intra-family violence an absolute priority, not only during the crisis but also afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u143	Thank you, Madam Reporter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u144	Mr President, I will be brief, although I think this is a very important issue. It is not a theme that arose during the COOVID crisis, when there was a huge increase in figures, and it is not a theme that will disappear after the COOVID crisis. It is not a theme that we have discovered today. On the contrary, we were working with the Committee on Social Emancipation to use a 360-degree approach to this issue so that we could subsequently come up with a broad-based resolution covering the whole issue. In these times of COVID some others have been shot into action. Two initiatives have been taken at the same time. The effort that has been made not to discuss them in the same committee in particular has been made today to deal with them at the same time in plenary, with the result that we have two resolutions which overlap but which still have two different names. Everyone can now say very toughly to their constituents that they are going to solve the intra-family violence with a resolution that actually has nothing in it. I am very sorry about that. I think this issue deserves more than that. That is why we abstained in committee, and that is why we will be abstaining later. I also note, and that is no coincidence, that they are two resolutions with French-speaking colleagues as first proposers. That's not a coincidence. Many of these things can be tackled at Community level, and Flanders has not waited. Flanders has for years, through the Family Justice Centers, but also through a chain approach to intra-family violence, been working much more on the approach than on the other side of the language border. When the COOVID crisis began, I had the same reflex as some colleagues: the only people who still see people are pharmacists. Especially in the beginning. It's funny that we're going to vote on that now. I don't know if you guys realize it, but that period is over. In the beginning, it was. In fact, I immediately called my Flemish colleagues and said that we had to take care of it, even if it only makes sense for a few people, that the pharmacists could play a role if there really was to be an alarm and if people could not do that from home to the number 1712, which we also have in Flanders. I know that you are advocating this at national level, but in Flanders we have that. We then rolled that out in Flanders. What will be approved here today for a period when the pharmacists are no longer the only point of contact, already exists in Flanders. Minister Zuhal Demir has also opened up hotels to ensure that, even during the periods when everyone had to stay at home under the lockdown, intra-family violence could be dealt with and that either the perpetrator or the victim, depending on the victim's choice, could be expelled immediately. I think there is something like this in this resolution too, and I have not even read it in full, in all honesty, but I note that we are very much behind the facts. It is also regrettable that the French-speaking colleagues have not had the reflex to direct their fellow party members at Community level to roll out a number of things that could have been realized a long time ago. Having said that, I would like you to be able to send a tweet with the message that intra-family violence has been resolved. However, I would like to thank Mr Karin Jiroflée for having had the reflexion. It is a pity that that committee has stopped, but it is what the corona crisis is doing to re-establish the good work that has been done in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee, which hopefully will lead to some things that are still useful in this fight. I look forward to making a third resolution. I'm not worried about whose name is at the top, but I hope she'll be of some use. We shall therefore abstain from the vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of the containment measures, the visionaries were in the red to warn us of the increase in domestic violence. China and Italy, which entered confinement a few weeks before us, have seen a staggering rise in calls and cases of domestic violence. On 24 March, my colleague Jessika Soors and I wrote to the government to warn him of this risk, but also to submit several proposals aimed at effectively combating this violence through federal levers. Then the numbers started to reach us. Two weeks later, it was no longer a risk to talk about, but a fact. Calls for domestic violence have tripled and have proved to be more urgent and serious. Similarly, relatives were concerned about women whose news they no longer received. Meanwhile, at the federal level, we, the Members of the European Parliament, have repeatedly questioned, week after week, the various ministers who have the levers to fight this scourge. At first, the answers were untiringly identical. We were told that the usual procedures were still in place and that it was not necessary to worry about them. However, we had to worry, as the situation in Belgium is already dramatic in normal times: every year 40 000 calls concern domestic violence, while 112 femicides have been committed since 2017. We are internationally condemned for non-compliance with our obligations as provided for, for example, by the Istanbul Convention. In addition, in the field, the associations carried out their work and prepared white maps and press releases to encourage action. However, inaction continued to be a challenge. In the federated entities - Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels - things have been done with the levers available: to look for emergency housing, to strengthen the lines of call. Even yesterday, the Walloon government announced a subsidy of EUR 40 000 for the strengthening of the lines of call through structural funds, but also long-term support for victim support associations. What I do not understand is that the government has been able to make health take precedence over everything else, taking action to meet the health crisis. But why do domestic violence not deserve such treatment? Yesterday in committee, Minister De Crem announced that the police would finally remind all victims of domestic violence. This is a measure that we have been asking for since the first day of the crisis. We were told that it was not necessary, that everyone had their own autonomy, that we would manage. As a result, some police areas have put it in place. At the Brussels level, the Region has generalized this practice. And on June 10, 2020, it is announced that this measure will finally be implemented. I don't know what to think. We're obviously glad it's moving, but it's too late. It is, indeed, far too late! About three weeks ago, we were told that a joint circular would be issued between Minister De Crem and Minister Geens. We're expecting news of this circular. We're asking what it's about and what it's about to contain. And we are told yesterday that we mustn't rush too fast. But no, let's not rush too fast! And today they say it's too late. However, Parliament is acting in accordance with the tempo at its disposal. Yes, it does come too late in relation to the crisis. However, some measures will still be useful in the event of a second wave and also during the deconfination. But at least today Parliament is taking action by adopting these two resolutions, which will both protect the victims and put on the track measures that can then be put in place. Indeed, it would have been necessary to act much earlier, but today the government wants a mandate. What we want is for the government to take this call from Parliament to put in place a real plan to combat violence against women in a concrete and close manner. We want the government to come with an ambitious agenda at the next inter-ministerial conference on women's rights on 26 June and put concrete measures on the table to take a real lead in the fight against domestic violence in our country. That is what we are asking the government today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no one will contradict this: domestic violence is a scourge. A scourge that has been increasingly talked about in recent years, particularly through the media, because the figures remain impressive over time, but also because justice and the police, for lack of resources, are struggling to combat such violence effectively. In our country, 40,000 incidents of domestic violence are reported each year. A figure that represents only one third of the acts committed. While a zero-tolerance policy is supposed to have been in place for several years now, 70% of cases opened by the courts are still closed today. Such violence is manifested in various forms, visible or invisible: from remonstrations to the control of the victim's movements, from psychological violence to beatings directly on the body, with consequences in all dramatic cases, and sometimes fatal. The femicide has thus taken place in our vocabulary while still waiting to be legally recognized. Twenty-four femicides were recorded in the press in 2019. And so many others were perpetrated in deafening silence. With the confinement that was imposed during this crisis on these women but also on certain men – it is worth recalling – all the actors on the ground assure it: these violences have been exacerbated, because of this co-habitation forced which has in some cases related to a real sequestration, without possible escape. Indeed, one dares not imagine the hell experienced by these thousands of women, confined to those who abuse them, who brutalize them, and in four out of ten cases, with children as spectators. On the French-speaking side of our country, the "Listen Violences Conjugales" line saw the number of calls double during confinement. In Flanders, there was a 70% increase in calls to number 1712 between the first and fourth weeks of confinement. This had the effect of saturating the two helplines and led the teams to increase their listening capacity as early as 7 April. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we wanted, through the bill that is on your bench today, is, above all, to allow a escape for the victims in this period of containment crisis that could continue, but also beyond this period. Like France and Spain, we wanted to allow them to find help, a quick, efficient relay by simply going to a pharmacy. As we know, these are easily accessible places. The network is extensive and pharmacists are on the front line to guide people not only in the event of a health problem, but also – the crisis has demonstrated this – in the case of other problems, including social ones. In this way, pharmacies should act as relay points for victims of violence tomorrow. They will be able to obtain accompaniment, specific information such as, for example, telephone numbers of the helplines. They may also be referred to competent aid structures, and they may, if they so wish, request that contact be made with the police in the end, perhaps, to file a complaint, but this is not an obligation. Considered in the context of the crisis we are experiencing today, we believe that this mechanism must now be considered in the long term with, no doubt, the need to assess the measure, to adapt it, but also to multiply this type of contact points, relay points, in the future. Obviously, for this to work, we have made cooperation the heart of this mechanism. The actors involved, namely the police, the magistrates, pharmacists and the field workers, must find themselves around the table. Clear recommendations in terms of the reception of victims, as well as the reception and follow-up of complaints, will have to be made. An information and awareness-raising campaign should be put in place, particularly for the more vulnerable. Today I would like to thank the colleagues who have embarked on this. The adoption of this text has indeed been the subject of constructive work by all those who want to combat this violence in practice. Amendments were incorporated into the original text, which could thus be strengthened. Some will say that this proposal on the table does not go far enough, and we understand it because what we have been defending for a long time is, of course, a genuine comprehensive plan of action to combat violence with the necessary budgetary means. Violence against women did not arise with the crisis that we are going through; it must be agreed. Our group has seen this for years and deplores the lack of resources specifically allocated to the judiciary and the police in recent years to combat violence against women effectively. As you can see, some police services continue not to give victims the reception they need – I say "some" police services – and prosecutors sometimes do not have enough resources to prosecute this type of offence. In too many cases, there continues to be a lack of awareness of the risk of recidivism among those who have been beaten. It is therefore imperative today to address this problem by providing financial resources, human resources and developing new strategies to avoid new tragedies. The text that we are going to adopt today – I hope so – will allow an additional measure to be put in place. She is obviously far from solving everything, but as Josiane Coruzzi, director of the ASBL Solidarité Femmes et Refuge pour femmes battées à La Louvière pointed out: "Everything that allows victims not to feel isolated, alone and powerless is a good initiative". That is what we are looking for today. The hope remains that a full-fledged federal government can be put in place quickly and that it will take into account the seriousness of violations of the rights, lives, health, safety and dignity of women who suffer such violence and that it will simply make combating such domestic violence a real priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to repeat that domestic violence is a problem which cannot be denied and which was certainly a problem during the corona crisis. After all, the imposed lockdown put the relationships within the family under strong pressure. Families where the relationship between the partners had already been clouded or where physical or non-violence was already present before the crisis have now been put under even more pressure, with all the consequences. The corona crisis increased the risk of domestic violence. The figures, which anyone can request from their own city or municipality, also show that the number of cases of domestic violence is increasing effectively. The present resolution is a step in the right direction, but the question is whether it is appropriate here. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has drawn attention to the sexism contained in the resolution and certain amendments. These texts have too much of a one-sided feminine perspective. It is true that women are very often the victims of domestic violence, but we must not forget that the victims are not exclusively women. Men are also sometimes victims of domestic violence. The question also remains whether this resolution is appropriate here, since the specialised assistance to victims of domestic violence is community matter. This should therefore be further developed at regional and even local level. The opinion of the CAW stated that the problem of domestic violence is also present outside of corona times. However, it is now more audible, because the neighbours are at home, and more visible, because the family members have to stay together in their quarters. I cannot help pointing out that Corona or COOVID-19 is being used and even abused by many colleagues to push through their own agenda. In the Health Committee we asked for the advice of the police, the pharmacists' association and the helpline 1712. Those opinions were not entirely enthusiastic and our voting behaviour will be in line with that. We will abstain from showing on the one hand that we are satisfied that there is attention to domestic violence and, on the other hand, that this is community matter and therefore it is not appropriate here. Lately the communities have their right, there will be no duplication of effort and, at worst, there will be no obstruction of communities. Then each community can work it out according to its own needs and needs. I would also like to clarify that we would like to re-subscribe our amendment here. This amendment states that attention should be paid to the accessibility of existing support lines. After all, a helpline that is not always accessible misses its purpose. Especially in cases of domestic violence, it is important to be able to ask for help at any time. This amendment was not stopped in committee, which is why we want to put it before the House again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis we are experiencing and the containment associated with it have multiple impacts. In recent weeks, a significant upsurge in domestic violence has been observed by professionals in the sector. The players in mental health and mental well-being have very concretely confirmed the situation during our work in the Health Committee. This affects women and children as a matter of priority. The latter may in fact be the direct victims of such violence or the spectators and witnesses of dramatic and highly traumatic acts. It is essential that we be able to respond without delay to these situations, as we must welcome the additional resources that have already been identified by the government in terms of front-line psychological care. This work will undoubtedly have to continue. For the MR, it was therefore important to be able to adopt a motion for a resolution aimed at strengthening the support of these victims in the front line on the ground and in the most accessible way. The mechanism proposed by this proposal aims to implement, throughout the national territory, a mechanism thanks to official pharmacists, which has already proved its worth in certain regions, and to strengthen action in this area within our police areas. We wanted to amend this text in order to ensure its practicality and to provide the necessary resources to pharmacists. It could not be decided to appoint them for such a guidance and advisory role without hearing them. They needed to be assured that the public authorities provided them with all the practical and logistical elements to carry out this mission in support of the victims. It was also necessary, because the involvement of our police forces is already important in dealing with victims of domestic violence, to ensure the feasibility of this enhanced work. This must go through a specific investigation to the attention of the 185 zonal security councils in order to determine whether the fight against domestic violence is well reflected in the 2020-2025 priorities of their zonal security plan. It is a necessity and it will enable us to draw up a precise picture of the situation, but also of the needs of our security forces. Awareness-raising work with the widest possible audience should also be carried out as well as coordination between the various emergency call services and the listening services recognized by the federated entities. Since the competence to combat domestic violence is not exclusively held by the federal level, it is important to stress that the implementation of this text will necessarily have to be coordinated with the Regions and the Communities. This text is only a new step in the fight against these situations, since domestic violence is a complex and multidisciplinary problem. In this context, it will be important to make every effort to better harmonise the different fields of competence and levels of power associated with this issue, such as Justice, Home Affairs, Care Policy, Education or Social Services. We therefore call on all political groups to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u149	Mr President, the PVDA supports these two resolutions. We think this is important. We have also tabled a resolution on women's rights in the context of the COVID-19 crisis. I would like to draw this slightly wider than the intra-family violence. It is clear that many heroes in the COVID-19 crisis are women. They were also the victims of the lockdown, because they were the most responsible for the domestic duties and homework of the children. There too, the women were in the front line. The lockdown put a lot of people in poverty. We know that eight out of ten single parents are women. We also quickly received many more reports of intra-family violence since the lockdown. It is therefore important to vote on this matter quickly. In Flanders, calls to the guides even went up by 70 %. We know that stress, alcohol and financial problems can trigger domestic violence. That is why we believe it is important to support this resolution. We are also pleased that one of our ideas was included in the resolution, in particular that police areas make the fight against intra-family violence a priority. The motion for a resolution incorporated an idea of the PTB, aimed at training a police patrol specialized in responding to domestic violence. It is obvious that this is not the same as intervention in ordinary criminal cases. Another suggestion was made, proposing to repeat the experience in the Brussels-North police area, which consisted of reminding all women who had filed complaints in the last three months. I hope, of course, that such an initiative will be followed up in the further fight against violence against women. We will support the request to entrust pharmacies with the role of a point of alert, because we can only endorse this idea. Furthermore, we believe that the removal of the author is a priority in the prevention of femicides. Another aspect that was discussed was the need to pay more attention to children, for example in the context of a listening line. We are tabling an amendment today, because contrary to what our Flemish nationalist friends want us to believe, it is not always better in Flanders. The guides for intra-family violence, such as the 1712 line, are only accessible during office hours. It is important that these helplines are accessible 24 hours a day. We have heard the same thing from the field. In Wallonia the help line Écoute Violences Conjugales can be reached 24 hours a day. That can be said at some point. I find it surprising that they will not support the motion for a resolution, arguing that it is purely Flemish competence. However, police interventions, the intervention of Justice and measures in the healthcare sector and health care are federal powers. I believe that the fight against violence against women should also be pursued at this level. I therefore interpret that the Flemish Interest and the N-VA consider the fight against intra-family violence to be less priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just played a game, not Angry Birds, but look for the ten differences. I had not yet read in detail the proposal, which is in principle next and as it was approved in the Committee on the Interior, and I was not aware that it would be discussed together, but that seems to me to be a logical decision. So far, I haven't found the ten differences. Like Mrs Van Peel, I also regret the way in which she works. I believe that the problem deserves much better than what is now before us. The proposals deal with a socially unacceptable problem, which was also accentuated by the corona crisis. From Open Vld we cannot be clearer. Physical and psychological violence between partners and between family members cannot be justified under any circumstances. Fighting this is a joint task for both the federal government and the federal states. This brings me straight to the first of four substantive comments, which I would like to make briefly with regard to the text before us, which we have addressed in Open Vld in a very constructive and friendly way. Witness to that is my three amendments, which were accepted, and the amendments I tabled together with colleagues from the MR. I am referring here to Mrs Zanchetta's proposal. There was quite a lot to do in committee about the division of powers between the federal and regional levels. We have heard this a number of times here. A similar initiative has already been launched in Flanders. An opinion from the Legal Service of the Chamber made it clear that while the federal level is competent, there are shared powers with the sub-areas. Therefore, cooperation between all entities is necessary. Flanders is already doing a lot and the other regions also have the opportunity to take a lot of action. When we talk about partner violence, we often look too one-sidedly at the violence of which women are victims. To date, I am the only man who has spoken and I feel sure that I am also called upon to defend the male victims, even though in most cases it is about women. When men are victims, it is much more often about psychological abuse, and we should certainly not underestimate that problem. Traces of physical violence are visible, but those of psychological violence are much less visible. The same applies to the victims and the sympathy they receive; they will feel more quickly addressed to act against bruises than to scratches on the soul. In the motion for a resolution in question, we do not invent hot water when we advocate the introduction of a so-called'mask 19' code, which allows the victims of the pharmaceutical industry to be discreetly alerted. Reference is made to the example of France and Spain. However, we must be careful not to compare apples with pears: in those countries there are less opportunities for victims to call on the emergency services than we do. However, we can certainly integrate the proposed additional channel into the policy and we see pharmacists as partners in tackling intra-family violence. Those who did not like the motion for a resolution were rather quick to guard against the additional burdens placed on the shoulders of pharmacists. We certainly wanted to listen to this from Open Vld, but with the understanding that the victims prevail. A pharmacist may be burdened by "mask 19," but of course this does not outweigh the pain suffered by victims of violence. To our satisfaction, the pharmacists' association reacted in a similar way. I would therefore like to express our respect for pharmacists because they also want to play a role in the problem of intra-family violence. At the same time, we must be aware that pharmacists are given the right recommendations to deal with them and to safeguard their safety. Those who go beyond partner violence often also have a short fuse with others. Since the pharmacist usually lives nearby, he, or much more so she, is not riskless to literally and figuratively share the blows. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, partner violence and intra-family violence must leave the country and the world. That is why our group initially welcomed the motion for a resolution. For this reason, too, our group is disappointed today in the text, which, after discussion and amendment, was so overloaded in substance that we want to abstain today in the vote, not in order to stop the fight, but in the belief that we will not win the battle with this strategy. Finally, first of all, I appeal to all those who are victims of partner violence: do not let it happen again, even more so, never let it happen again. Don't give in to classic threats and blackmails from the unsub. Open your mouth and ask for help, because not the victim but the unsub is in error. Secondly, I call on all those who are witnesses of partner violence not to turn their heads away, not to appease themselves with the boltade that one should not interfere with other people's household. The exception confirms the rule: violence, both physically and psychologically, has no place in any household. So choose undoubtedly for the victim and do not spare the unsub.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u151	Mr De Caluwe, on the subject only female colleagues speak, but I am still a male sex. However, I do not take your address as a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u152	Mr President, a school in my municipality, but it could be a school in any municipality. A ship of education, but it could be any ship of education. A director pulls the alarm, but it could be any school director. The children don't come to school, they don't come to emergency care, they don't respond to distance learning, they don't respond to phones from the CLB or social worker. My throat closes when I think further: what happens there? If there is danger, where will help be found? Colleagues, the corona virus has often been called an invisible enemy, but this crisis brings with it, if possible, a much more invisible danger, namely the danger of domestic violence. Not I say that, but the Family Justice Center says that, helpline 1712 says that, so does the Child Abuse Expertise Center. Seventy percent more calls on helpline 1712 since the second week of lockdown measures. But it's gonna take more than just that help line. People often have difficulty calling or working with video call during a lockdown period. Contacts that normally cause de-escalation, such as neighbors, friends or family, physically disappear. That is why we will fully support the two resolutions before us, one of which sets out a warning system in cooperation with pharmacists and the other proposing a number of judicial and police measures. Like Mr De Caluwé, we are very pleased, even very pleased, that the pharmacists are keen on this cooperation. You'll think this wave of corona is over anyway. We all know that we may expect another wave. There may also be other circumstances in which this resolution will prove useful. Moreover, we must not only see this in a corona perspective. Mrs Van Peel already referred to the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation. There will be a series of hearings. These hearings should identify the whole problem of intra-family violence and, above all, expose the gaps that remain in the system. These hearings, in which we have already pulled a lot of material, must be completed before the summer recess. In the autumn we would very much like to bring a workable report to this hemisphere from the advisory committee. For all those children, for all those men, for all those women, the sp.a will approve both resolutions and we ask all colleagues in this Chamber to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u153	Mr President, first of all, before I begin this speech, let me thank the Conference of Presidents and you yourself for allowing the discussion on the two resolutions to come at the same time. Indeed, we are trying to catch up with the incoherence that has prevailed in the various committees by a common and cross-sectional expression in both committees. This is really essential for a simple question of credibility, as our group leader reminded us yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. I would like to extend a second thank you to the whole voluntary sector, which for months, of course, has been working tirelessly to listen to, to accompany and to support all these victims of domestic violence. Their work is not highlighted enough. If we can present a series of applications today, it is also thanks to this sector which is on the ground, which listens and relays a series of concerns. Thank its members for that. Let us acknowledge that these resolutions have been taken in a context of failure: arrest after arrest, since the end of March, requests for measures remain unanswered, or so little, or so late. It was also necessary to wait until 8 May for a CIM to finally meet. Finally, all ministers responsible for the issue of equal opportunities and the fight against violence against women meet. These resolutions are probably late, and I am not going to incriminate my colleagues. But they were taken because no action had been taken at the level of governments, or so little. We were promised them, we were told they were coming, maybe, or probably. In total, they almost didn't show up at all. I would like to reply to Mrs Van Peel. I share some of his comments. I agree with her on the incoherence of the various texts that are coming. But I can't share all of his comments. Indeed, there is still a great deal of federal jurisdiction in the resolutions. I am thinking in particular of the second, which concerns police and justice in very many respects. These two areas remain under federal jurisdiction. The entities have worked. You said Flanders had done everything. I hear that Flanders has not really done everything either. I can tell you that the federated entities have also worked. These are not CDH ministers who are in these positions, so I am very comfortable to say so. As recently as yesterday, measures have been taken to strengthen the listening lines and support for the voluntary sector, which is on the front line for the support of victims. Let us not make this debate a Community issue! Mrs Van Peel, I am sure you really share the objectives of the fight against violence. Don't come to meddle with this community. This has nothing to do with it. Let's not race to the scald between the entities, to the one that would do the best and to the one that would do the least well, with good points to each other and bad points to the other. I believe that we must all be mobilized for the same cause through these resolutions. In essence, what is a resolution? I know that every time we say a resolution, we don't have to do anything about it. A resolution, if it obtains a majority, is one or more requests addressed to the government. And if the government, after nice requests, did not accept or did not want, could not carry out, I think that with a resolution, it will have to carry out a series of measures. It's extremely late, you said, with deconfinity etc. But we also know that the measures that are being taken now are not only emergency measures, but they can be sustained over time. In my view, it is difficult to take strong measures for three reasons: first, lack of will; second, lack of resources; third, a certain fragmentation of competences which means that the different entities do not speak easily. When will this become a real priority? When will a new national plan to combat violence be drawn up, with a dedicated budget? Like Spain, which we always take as an example, when will we have a real strategy to combat violence against women? I would remind you that Spain devotes an annual budget of around 500 million euros dedicated to this issue, with particular courts, with police trained in the front line to receive, with a system of prevention and accompanying also the perpetrators of this violence. It is at this price that we will be able to combat violence against women. I would like to mention one figure: according to the WHO, there is a 60% increase in domestic violence compared to last year in the confined EU states. I think that is significant enough to say that action should have been taken much earlier. Whether we are in a period of confinement or in a normal situation, the weakness of our measures is the same. Unfortunately, we did not have the shock or the good idea to strengthen our measures because we were faced with a more difficult period. All the recommendations that have been circulated around the world - both at the WHO level and at the United Nations level or at the European level - pursued the same objective, namely to receive, protect and listen to victims through a judicial and police system trained for this purpose. It was also a question of providing for "escapes" so that victims could be heard, without necessarily being linked to a complaint procedure. As such, pharmacies play a fundamental role. According to the above-mentioned recommendations, there was also a need for means to ensure that victims of a violent spouse could, among other things, send a text message to ask for help - it is not expected that they will be able to call by having a violent spouse next to them. In this regard, we regret that the resolution tabled by the DéFI Group through Sophie Rohonyi has not been able to incorporate this technical element, which already exists for the deaf and hard of hearing. Several resolutions on the subject had been tabled and discussed. In this regard, I would like to point out that the resolution is not just a reflection on principles; it concerns requests to the government on a matter that requires clear and precise actions. One of these resolutions concerns a system specific to Flanders, namely the alert system set up in collaboration with pharmacies. This alert system should be extended throughout the country in order to achieve uniformity at the national level and to give all pharmacies in the country an advisory and informative role. It is not for the victims to wonder whether they are in the Flemish region or in the Brussels region when the emergency comes to them. The second resolution is an initiative of our colleague Sophie Rohonyi of DéFI. This resolution is much more comprehensive and as such I have agreed to co-sign it. It is a more global device that integrates the pharmacy device of course but also many elements to which we are particularly attached. That is why we supported this resolution, which has been improved over the course of the day, depending on the opinions of judges and police officers in particular, in order to be able to be as fair as possible in the arrangements we advocated: the temporary ban on residence, coordination between the various actors, the guarantee that victims are not punished in case they have breached the confinement rules in order to be able to escape, the awareness of the police and prosecutors' offices of accommodation solutions, etc. These resolutions are an important step and the government will have to take them into account. These texts are not exclusive. Mrs Jiroflée, I would like to point out, in a more comprehensive and lasting reflection on the violence that you are leading, we must include emergency measures which may be extended in more permanent arrangements on which you are working and which we will of course be associated. And this must be done through all the skills. There is not only the interior and justice. These are of course two essential institutions in the fight against violence, but there is also Employment, Health, etc. A whole range of federal jurisdictions must integrate gender policies. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with a quote from Albert Einstein, who pointed out that "where there is a will, there is a path" and it is political will that the fight against violence against women needs to be fought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we can have this debate on two complementary texts aimed at providing a concrete and rapidly mobilizable response to the societal scourge of domestic violence. I would like to recall that this scourge affects all segments of society, all generations, all regions of the world and this country. It locks victims into a cycle of violence that, if not stopped in time, can lead to the worst. At the beginning of this year, nine women died because they were women. Simone de Beauvoir warned us: "It will only be a crisis for women's rights to be called into question." Unfortunately, she was right. Indeed, among the many victims of the health crisis, which is now accompanied by an economic and social crisis, we find vulnerable people who had to live this confinement with the person they loved, but who now makes them live a true hell. The figures for the various lines of attention for the victims speak for themselves, as some colleagues have rightly pointed out. However, the most worrying thing is that they are only the tip of the iceberg, as containment has made it even more difficult to call helplines or file a complaint. We can imagine why... The University of Ghent has just published a study on relations during the period of VOCID-19 in Belgium. The results are instructive. For example, one in four people was victims or witnesses of violence during the first phase of confinement. I recall that complaints are very rarely filed. In addition, children are also very often victims of physical violence. The exacerbation of such violence during the health crisis was objected to by the UN, WHO, many associations and NGOs, but also by the Minister of Justice. In the 22 April commission, he told us that the increase in reports of domestic violence is gradually reflected in the prosecutor's files. For their part, the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the European Union draw the attention of States to the fact that, in the context of a crisis – whether it be health, humanitarian or economic – inequalities increase when the negative impact of this crisis on women's rights is not seriously taken into account or addressed. It was therefore more than time, yes, to adopt a national emergency action plan to respond to the plight of the victims, protect them and avoid further drama. That is why I tabled this motion for a resolution with the support of my colleagues François De Smet and Vanessa Matz, whom I would like to thank. No, we did not suddenly decide to work on the issue of domestic violence and I regret that Mrs Van Peel did not consider it important to agree on the issue. No, we didn't decide to wake up and talk about it. This kind of speech is purely caricatural. Moreover, it is tantamount to denying the importance of parliamentary work that many of my colleagues in this House and I have been conducting since the beginning of the legislature. At least they had the decency to want to participate in this important debate. As I said, we have repeatedly called on the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. Mr. De Crem will be able to attest to this. We have also tabled several texts. In November of this year, DéFI submitted a text to include femicide in the Criminal Code. It had also tabled a text to adopt an inter-federal national plan against violence against women. We were then in a time when the issue was not considered urgent. I therefore welcome the fact that some of the measures contained in this text can finally be adopted today. Anyway, I hope so. For its part, the Opinion Committee on Social Emancipation chaired by my colleague Karine Jiroflée, whom I would like to thank, has also organised hearings which have proved to be particularly illuminating on the issue of domestic violence. These long months have been an opportunity to see that although initiatives have been taken by the federal level, they are not sufficient. It is not I who say it, it is the lawyers who specialize in family law, the associations who, every day, help the victims, in other words the people who are most able to assess our actions in this field, but also the results of our shortcomings. When we see that the crisis puts the problems that are too often caught up in the scene, when we see that the crisis allows us to adopt measures which have been requested for a long time and which have so far never been able to be implemented, because we consider today that the urgency is such that it allows us to do so, we have the right to wonder why the victims of domestic violence and of couples could not, too, be supported by the government in the context of this crisis? Why could they not be supported when they were faced with situations that have arisen or have deteriorated, as a result of the health and containment measures taken by the same government, even if they were necessary? Why not respond to the distress of all those people who today must choose to die either from the VOCID-19 or from the blows of their spouse? Raising awareness among prosecutors and police is obviously a good thing, but giving victims the practical tools to be protected is even better. That's what our federated entities did. I heard Mrs Van Peel say that we should not be working on this issue because Flanders had made progress with the "Mondmasker 19" scheme. But everyone worked on that. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation has widely distributed the telephone numbers of the listening lines. It was the Ministers of Equal Opportunities for Francophones who ensured that the Interdepartmental Conference on Women's Rights could be convened. The Brussels-Capital Region has generalized contact with victims of domestic violence in police stations in recent months. Provision has also been made for the provision of hotel rooms in the event that the victim reception network becomes saturated. What I would really like is for us not to enter into a competition between the federated entities to know which one did better than that. Our approach is to put all victims on an equal footing so that all victims can benefit from the best mechanisms, whether they were initially set up in the north or south of the country. That's really not the point. If we have the opportunity today to generalize these devices for the benefit of everyone, we must do so. I also wanted to go back to what has been put in place in other countries. France and Spain have adopted ambitious and successful emergency action plans. I cannot imagine today that Belgium does not have the ambition to follow their example. I cannot imagine that my country, which is known worldwide for being a progressive country with an ambitious legislative arsenal in this field, cannot participate in this proactive effort to combat domestic violence, by putting in place emergency measures which, as my colleague Matz rightly pointed out, fall within its competence, in particular Justice, Health, the Interior and the Economy. Yes, today we have two texts on the table. I think that's very good. If we could have two, three, four, five motions for resolutions on the subject, that would be even better. This would demonstrate how well we are all aware of the seriousness of this problem and the need to address it. We have a text of the PS and sp.a on the device to be put in place in pharmaceutical pharmacies; this device had meaning during confinement. The latter revealed violence in family homes where they did not previously exist, as well as aggravated situations where such violence already occurred, whether physical, sexual or psychological. But this demand keeps its full meaning today, even though we have begun, in a fairly consistent manner, our deconfinity. Why? First of all, as the subject of mask management, which we discussed earlier, shows, because this definity is not acquired, it is only progressive. We're not safe. We would like to be, but we are not immune to a second wave of the epidemic. I wish we were all aware of that. Contrary to what Mrs Van Peel said, no, the problem is not behind us. Then, the grip of the perpetrators of violence on their victims, who are stuck with them in sometimes very narrow spaces, persists, and will continue throughout this period of confinement, which will also be long. This will be sustained after the crisis if we do not put at the disposal of the victims devices enabling them to free themselves from the crisis. Today, as has been pointed out, there are fortunately organizations and associations that mobilize every day to help these victims. [[Listening lines exist.]] In fact, they were heavily mobilized during confinement. I would like to greet and thank those who took care of it. Moreover, according to WHO, the number of emergency calls by women facing threats or violence from their partners has increased by 60% compared to last year in many European countries, including Belgium. The problem is that dialing a number and testifying on the phone to denounce his executioner when he is right next door, therefore defeating his fear of retaliation for himself and his children, is a real difficulty. That is why it is really essential to increase the number of points of contact for victims. Pharmacies must indeed be able to be part of it. Why? Because pharmacies form a network of 4,800 points of contact that all citizens know but above all they trust. We saw him with this crisis. The pharmacist is the one to which one can turn without an appointment, if necessary 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if he is on duty. The pharmacist is the one to which we go not only to ask medical questions but also to address financial, social or psychosocial problems. Pharmacies have a legal duty to protect their clients. The Criminal Code makes this clear and offers the possibility for professional secrecy holders, pharmacists, to derogate from it in the event of danger to persons. Pharmacists are also seeking any initiative that seeks to enhance them in their practice, in particular following a crisis that has asked for them enormously but without the recognition of them. I'm thinking of the masks and gels they had to buy at a high price. But that's not the point. Some of us today, as is often the case when we dare to address the problem of domestic violence in this Parliament – as we have seen before – that this system must be put in place only by the federated entities and that, moreover, this system already exists in Flanders. I have to correct that again. First of all with regard to competence, the motion for a resolution by my Socialist colleagues makes it clear that the mechanism will be put in place in consultation with the federated entities. This is a clarification that has been added following a request for clarification of the Chamber's legal services. It is therefore not a question of replacing the federated entities, but of ensuring with them that the scheme can benefit each victim, regardless of his municipality or region. In order to ensure that this system is generalised, an appeal must be made by the highest level, by the federal level. Secondly, because the system in Flanders, which has been widely supported by pharmacists themselves, involves collaboration between pharmacies and action centres for well-being. In Wallonia, it has also been set up in some municipalities, such as Mons, but there, the pharmacist collaborates with the city's CPAS in what is also a pilot project. So we're not in a permanent system logic. We have had extremely positive feedback on this mechanism. The idea here is therefore to complement the scheme by including the police in this collaboration, in addition to the CPAS. That is why, once again, the federal government had to intervene to give impetus to this system. I am therefore pleased to support the proposal of my Socialist colleagues, which includes this important part of the national action plan to combat domestic violence. I would like to remind you that I have been calling for my wishes since the beginning of the legislature. I am all the more enthusiastic that this proposal has been completed by insisting on the safety that must be guaranteed to pharmacists and victims, but also on the inclusion of the most vulnerable audiences, with a national campaign that will have to concern people who do not speak our national languages or who are hard of hearing. This is therefore an important point, but it is not the panacea. For it is never enough to say: domestic violence is a global problem that requires a comprehensive approach, in other words, a comprehensive strategy of prevention, assistance and support for victims. The key to our fight against domestic and domestic violence is thus to diversify the points of contact to respond to the diversity of situations in which victims can find themselves, in order to meet the diversity of their profiles, their needs. The aim, therefore, is that, despite the diversity of these situations, all victims can be cared for. The European Union has also urged Member States to strengthen support for victims of domestic violence during the VOCID-19 crisis (from which we have not left), which must be supported through flexible tools to report abuses. In the same vein, Amnesty International, again this week, insists on the establishment of "innovative mechanisms of alert and guidance to provide assistance during the pandemic and to report cases of domestic violence. Women must maintain access to these alert mechanisms without fear of being discovered by their partner by using SMS messages" – and this is why I share the regret expressed by my colleague Mrs Matz – "to emails, chats online or by addressing pharmacies and businesses so that even victims who have been deprived of internet access can have access to them." I am therefore pleased that, in order to respond to the need for flexibility that many bodies are asking for, we have reached a compromise text in committee, which is why these two texts complement each other, as I have said. In the general discussion on our motion for a resolution on an action plan, some of my colleagues have described this approach as "populist" for reasons that are still beyond my control. I wanted to go back to that because, then, when we received the written opinions of the Integrated Police, the College of Attorneys General, the Minister De Crem here and Comeos, and then we were able to discuss the amendments that responded to their constructive remarks and suggestions, I suddenly did not hear them any more. This is probably because all those actors who are crucial to the implementation of this action plan have insisted on two fundamental things. There is, on the one hand, the importance of an emergency plan that can break the isolation of victims and strengthen their protection and, on the other hand, their willingness to participate in this collective effort. The text thus calls on the government to take measures that, in addition to being realistic, quickly mobilizable, effective and very inexpensive, are consistent with the needs, expectations and realities of the field. It is true that this was essential because it was necessary to be certain that all the actors involved in this important societal mission – the protection of victims – were able to carry it out properly. These actors are first and foremost the judiciary, which will now have to consider the removal of the perpetrator of violence from the victim's home as a priority and consequently strengthen the temporary residence ban, which may be accompanied by a prohibition of contact, even for victims who do not reside with the perpetrator. These actors, too, are our police areas, which will have to develop the tools for assessing the risk of domestic violence, which already exist today but only in certain police areas. These police areas will also have to conclude memoranda of understanding between those with 24 hours a day and those who do not have 24 hours a day or commit themselves to contact the victims of the last three months, as the Brussels North police zone has done. These actors, it is also the federal police that will have to expand the online reporting platform, Police-on-web, no longer to the smallest crimes, as is currently the case, but to the cases of threats, harassment and assault. This platform can also be accompanied by a cat. These actors are also the telecom operators who will need to be made aware of the need to remove any trace of calls from victims' listening services on telephone bills. These actors are also pharmacies, which will have to be contact points for victims throughout the country rather than in certain municipalities or regions. Similarly, it will be up to the shopping centres and supermarkets to disseminate information on the mechanisms for assisting victims of domestic violence established by associations and public authorities. As you can see, this text launches a signal and shows us that it is now society as a whole that is mobilizing to address this social problem. I am all the more enthusiastic because the text also aims to protect all victims of violence, including children who, in their physical and moral integrity, must be protected for their proper development. This is not only a moral duty but also an international obligation, recalled by the Istanbul Convention, which our country ratified in 2016 and whose proper implementation is the responsibility of the federal government. It was therefore essential that this text also contain commitments to these children, both at the level of their reception in police stations and at the level of communication which we must organise around the national and free children's phone number (103). This number must also be accessible by cat. This text is the culmination of long parliamentary work, but it is also – and above all – an impetus for the work that the government has yet to do. That is why I would like to stress this point, even if I tire some of my colleagues, but it must be admitted that it is not every day that we have the opportunity to hold such an important debate. I would also like to assure the members of the government that we will support them in the implementation of this plan. The same applies to associations, lawyers and doctors who provide assistance to victims every day. I sincerely hope that today we can send them the signal that we intend to accompany them in their difficult but indispensable mission, so that every victim can be listened to, helped and protected, and thus live and rebuild.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u155	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u156	Demand/Request 4/1(n) • Sofie Merckx cs (1197/7) Demand/Request 12(n) • 24 • Dominic Sneppe cs (1197/7) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u157	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u158	Demand/Request 7/1(n) • 15 – Sophie Rohonyi cs (1236/8) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u159	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u160	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Katrien Houtmeyers, Michel Freilich, Wouter Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u161	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (252/8) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (252/8) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mr Patrick Prévot , rapporteur, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, food waste is a known problem. A third of the food produced worldwide is discarded. That's huge. With that third, we can feed four times the hungry in the world. In Flanders it is a weight of food between 15 and 23 kg per Fleming that we waste unnecessarily per year. For a family of four, this means, for example, EUR 300 per year. Food waste will only increase by 2030. It would then increase by 33%, accounting for 2.1 billion tonnes of food that we would throw away every year. That's huge. It goes without saying that this waste is a major burden on the environment, which should not be there. A 2015 study by the British Waste and Recycling Advisory Body estimated that the greenhouse gases emitted by food that is unjustly thrown away by British families correspond to the CO2 emissions of a quarter of cars driving around the UK. This shows the unnecessary burden that this places on our environment. Food waste is facilitated by the shelf life data on the packaging. Studies show that better regulation and awareness of sustainability data could reduce food waste by 31% and thus by almost one third. That is why the proposal we are going to vote on today is on the table here. After all, we find that there is very often confusion for the consumer about the difference between the date 'to be used until' and 'at least sustainable until'. The date "to be used until" means that the product can no longer be consumed after that date without a risk to health. I am thinking, for example, of yoghurt. Products whose packaging indicates "at least shelf life until" may still be perfectly consumed after that date, without endangering health. The quality may not be as optimal anymore, but there is no risk to health if the product is used after that date. That is why we believe that this "at least sustainable to" works confusingly and makes people throw away far too much food unnecessarily. In this context, we see that innovation will also play an important role. I have a very concrete example of a food manufacturer who is investigating a chip that will be able to be incorporated into packaging, so that even for limited sustainable products it will be possible to demonstrate much more accurately whether the product can still be consumed. So we're just at the beginning of what's possible there. Important for us in this discussion is a better awareness among the people about the difference between the two dates. That is already a step in the right direction. A second appeal in this resolution to the government is to call at European level for an extension of the list of products that would no longer have a date. Several neighbouring countries have already done this, the Netherlands and Germany but also Sweden. I think about coffee, rice, spring water, chips. That would also be a step in the right direction. A third appeal in this resolution to the federal government is to set an example in its own institutions. At Flemish level, there is an anti-waste plan. A number of very simple interventions have allowed the waste of food to be reduced. A concrete example: for meetings they no longer put thermoscan coffee on the table, but a machine. As a result, they save 500 bathtubs of coffee every year. This is a very simple procedure, which can be used to combat food waste. I would very much like to take this opportunity to thank colleagues in the committee for their constructive cooperation on this dossier. This merely shows that the problem of food waste within this Chamber is being widely borne. I would like to call on the government, in this case Minister De Crem, who is here, to embrace the strong signal that will be given here by the Chamber and to take concrete steps as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u163	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt has cut the grass at my feet. I actually wanted to ask you if you know the difference between "to use until" and "at least sustainable until." But she just explained that. So I'm afraid to challenge you anymore. Mr President, what are you doing with a bag that says "at least sustainable until"?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u164	I behave to the wisdom of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u165	If we take a bag of rice today, which is "at least sustainable until 11 June 2020," this means that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and next week we can use it perfectly. If you take a jar of yogurt today that says "to be used until 11 June 2020," it is not recommended to use it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u166	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u167	We should not recommend this here, Mr van Quickenborne. I do, too, but we should not recommend it, because that is no longer food safe. There's no guarantee anymore. Having said that, it's just not clear for a lot of people. A recent Flemish study shows that 81 percent of those questioned indicated that they were throwing away the food, and that they were not going to use the bag I was talking about tomorrow because they thought it was no longer good. 81 % of respondents! This shows that this resolution was certainly necessary. The fact that the difference between those two notes is not clear does indeed cause a great deal of food loss. Mr Van Bossuyt has already given a number of figures. If all the food that is thrown away in Flanders in one year, by all households together, were put on a freight train, that train would be 117 kilometres long. That's hallucinating. Mr Van Bossuyt, you have already mentioned the CO2 impact. Per household, this means as much CO2 emissions per year as a car ride to the south of France. That's huge. You also spoke about the more than 300 euros. The latest Flemish study says that an average family in Flanders throws out 369 euros a year. We must all be able to do something about this, I believe. That is why I am very pleased that a great deal has been done before. We discussed in committee the European Platform on Food Loss and Food Waste, which sets a good example. In our country, too, there are a lot of good organisations. I mention three, because they are close to my heart: Too Good To Go, which brings the leftovers back to the market at a reduced price; Velt, the Association for Ecological Life and Gardening, where I worked until last year, and which releases courses and books to prevent scraps; and especially Vlaco, which takes initiatives to compost any leftovers in its own garden. With the Ecolo-Green Group, we have tabled some amendments based on the Lansink Ladder, a standard for waste. The Ladder of Lansink initially says that waste must be avoided as much as possible, the preventive hatch, and if it cannot be avoided, it must be re-used. The Ladder of Lansink also prescribes recycling, but this is of course not so obvious with food. Energy conversion could still be achieved by making biomass. We have focused on prevention and reuse. Some of our amendments on prevention have been included, for example by involving expert organisations in the search for alternatives. We are convinced that we do not need to invent hot water, but that we should bring together all the alternatives. We are also convinced that further research, as Mr Van Bossuyt pointed out, will be a key to the solution. All the forces must be combined into the Innovation Fund. When it comes to re-use, we are convinced that we should also be able to look at the bag of rice that would expire today. With respect for food safety, it may still be given away for those who need it. We have included in one of our amendments that this should be viewed together with the BFSA. In case of reuse, the value should be kept as high as possible. Conclusion, food is too valuable to throw away. With the drought, every summer, it becomes clear to us that it takes a great deal of effort for farmers to produce valuable food for us. It would be a shame for us to go along with the trend of growing 30% throughout Europe. The European objective is to go to the figure of 50 per cent by 2030, and for us this objective should be even more binding in the resolution. Mr Van Bossuyt, we are proud to have made a good resolution with good amendments even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a motion for a resolution will be put to the vote on the revision of the date indications on packaging in the fight against food waste. Of course, the Flemish interest is also in favour of preventing food waste in itself. We can certainly support better disclosure of the meaning of the sustainability data for consumers, as well as the use of intelligent packaging. However, we are asking some questions about the impact of a number of other proposals contained in that resolution, such as calling at European level for exemption from the date "at least sustainable until'. The fact that a product is still safe for consumption after a long period of time does not mean that the quality, such as texture and taste, also corresponds to the manufacturer's objectives after a long period of storage. A limited number of specific products will improve over time. For most products, that's actually the opposite. We also believe that this issue should not be dealt with explicitly at European level. In addition, we believe that the consumer needs a clear date indication to be able to determine how old a product actually is in his closet. In addition, the date "at least sustainable until" provides protection for the customer. This is also a period during which the consumer can claim compensation if a product would no longer be suitable for consumption before the date indicated. The producer is also the most suitable person to determine how long the quality of a particular product can be guaranteed. Indeed, the producer has knowledge of the raw materials used in the product, the production process and the impact of the packaging method he uses on the shelf life. We therefore believe that an indication "at least sustainable until" would be a useful tool for informing the consumer until the good quality of a product can be guaranteed by the producer. For this reason, the Vlaams Belangroep will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB is pleased to be able to speak today about a problem which is of great concern to us: food waste. It represents for us both a human aberration and an environmental absurdity. Indeed, while one third of the world's food production is wasted, 800 million people are undernourished. Environmentally, food waste affects almost 30 per cent of the world's agricultural land, but also 30 per cent of the use of water on Earth. They are therefore resources used unnecessarily, thus causing notorious environmental damage. I am thinking in particular of the loss of biodiversity caused by monoculture. We are therefore very pleased to be able to talk about this topic today. The original text was enriched by the amendments that were made. As a result, it has been able to take into account new factors aimed at reducing waste. That's a good thing. Among the various measures I note the revision of the expiry dates of products such as rice or coffee, the pursuit of European objectives in the fight against waste, better collaboration between industry, federated entities and AFSCA, or the promotion of research with the aim of reducing our food waste. So all this is very positive. The PTB has also tabled an amendment to encourage the donation of unsold food. We would like to see the federal government force large areas to give priority and free of charge to food banks, charities and CPAS. Our amendment also wants to punish large areas heavily when they destroy their unsold ones. It is unacceptable to see supermarkets throwing bleach on food that is still consumable, to ensure that people in difficulty do not take it. Such practices are intolerable – and the word is weak, I assure you! The PTB therefore believes that every effort should be made to help people in need, especially when it comes to basic needs such as food. That is an essential point. Today, food banks face two major problems. The first is the increase in demands for food parcels. Jozef Mottar, Managing Director of the Belgian Federation of Food Banks, estimates that applications have increased by 15%. The second problem that complicates the first is that food banks encountered major supply difficulties during the coronavirus crisis, while large areas were in full swing. As a result, we were not able to exploit enough of the resources we had at our disposal while the applications were exploding. The obligation to donate unsold goods must be adopted as a matter of urgency, especially since the representative of the food banks is not certain that the demand has reached its peak. Indeed, with the many bankruptcies and waves of redundancies that are announced, it is a whole group of the population that is at risk of turning into precariousness. So our measure is more than common sense! This is one of the responses to the current social emergency. It exists in other countries, such as France, where the observation is very good. Whereas previously one third of the large areas did not give anything, nearly 94% of them would now be unsold. In addition, the number of meals distributed by associations has exploded and SMEs have been set up in order, inter alia, to gain access to certain rural areas. I hope that, thanks to our measure, but also thanks to all the other measures included in this motion for a resolution, the situation in our country can change drastically. The PTB does not accept that Belgium is the second worst student in Europe in terms of food waste. This aberration must stop. The results must be conclusive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u170	Mr President, food waste is an important issue for us. Especially during the corona crisis, the strategic importance of food was proved abundant. Open Vld is in principle in favour of the initiative. The motion for a resolution contains a number of elements that we fully support. We are particularly pleased that the safetyfirst principle was added by amendment. In Flanders, the chain roadmap has been an integrated policy for many years, including continuous monitoring to combat food waste. That is why the cooperation announced with the regions is also positive. However, we believe that the proposal is too strict. Perhaps with good intentions the bar is set so high and too little account is taken of practical concerns from the food sector and consumer preferences. For example, we have become involved in a story with very ambitious and strictly timed objectives, with a strong focus on French legislation and even with the creation of an innovation fund. The intention of the proposal does not go too far for Open Vld, but the over-regulated way in which people implement the fight against food waste is, on the other hand. That is why we will abstain, because, like food, we must not waste any regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u171	Mr President, I will be shorter than before, but I wanted to speak on this very important subject. 1.3 billion tonnes of food are wasted each year at the global level. In other words, about a third of all the food produced on the planet is thrown away rather than arriving on our plates. Meanwhile, more than 800 million people are suffering from hunger in the world. A contrast, an aberration that is unbearable. According to a United Nations study, food waste amounts to nearly 300 kilos per person per year in Europe and North America. This is the result of a waste that begins in the fields, continues during the transformation and in the distribution and ends in our kitchens. Food waste is a scourge, both socio-economically and environmentally, that deserves to be addressed. The motion for a resolution before us thus addresses a twofold angle of action. Firstly, to consider that at European level alternatives should be found to the indications "preferably to be consumed before" and to allow the exemption of those particulars for a range of foodstuffs such as rice, coffee, spring water, pasta. The second is to make the consumer aware of the DDM (maximum durability date), relating to the quality of the food, but also to the DLC (time limit for consumption), relating to public health. This is essential because these statements are all too often the subject of confusion which is harmful both to the consumer's portfolio and to our planet. The European Union must therefore find a solution to this endemic problem. For its part, the federal government must also be proactive in ensuring that the statements are readable in order to empower the consumer. I believe that all levels of power must also be mobilised. It is clear that our group will support this motion for a resolution. It is no more or less a matter of being consistent in our fight against global warming, a commitment that we all need to continue for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u172	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u173	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u174	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1252: Georges Gilkinet, Gilles Vanden Burre, Kristof Calvo, Evita Willaert, Marie-Colline Leroy, Sophie Rohonyi - 1291: Benoît Piedboeuf, Benoît Friart, Florence Reuter, Mathieu Bihet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u175	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1252/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1252/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Katrien Houtmeyers, rapporteurs, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis has hit the hospitality industry hard. For months now we have been taught to keep our distance and if there is just one place where we don't want to keep our distance and want to be together, then it is in the hospitality industry. The road to recovery will be very long for them. We are therefore very pleased with the resolution before us today. It is the fruit of a lot of constructive work, for which I would like to thank all my fellow Members. One of the most important achievements is the reduction in VAT from 21% to 6% for restaurants, cafes and catering services. This will give catering companies the necessary breathing space to overcome this crisis. We have also proposed the principle of coaching inspection services. After all, the catering industry will have enough difficulty in complying with all the measures in the coming months, for example the distance rules. It cannot, of course, be the intention to make it even more difficult for them, after all the efforts they have already made. That is why we also ask that inspection services coach and advise rather than act quickly sanctioningly. Linking the proposed measures to the use of the white register, as far as it is required by law, was crucial for us. This will prevent abuse and reward companies that are legally in order. Of course, there were also proposals that we saw less of, for example, the carry-back scheme or the endless extension of certain measures such as the right of bridging. Aid measures must not be just sympathetic, they must also be compatible, without losing sight of the general interest. However, this reservation does not outweigh the many good measures in the text, taken in the interests of a sector that is close to everyone's heart. We therefore hope that the government will be able to move forward quickly with the solutions proposed. Our entrepreneurs are counting on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u177	Mr President, as we know, the horeca sector is indeed one of the most affected sectors, such as culture and events, as a result of the containment, closures and crisis associated with the VOCID-19 pandemic. In some studies, it is even mentioned that institutions are at risk of bankruptcy up to 40%. It's obviously huge! We also learn today, in a study published by Greydon and published this morning in the media, that in Brussels, four out of ten SMEs that were healthy before the crisis of VOCID-19 "are on the brink of the abyss" - I literally quote the study. Of course, in these Brussels SMEs there are a lot of horeca establishments, since in Brussels there are many SMEs linked to horeca and events which are very important sectors for our Capital Region. The indicators are red in relation to these SMEs and the Horeca sector in particular. It is true that the Ecolo-Groen Group has tabled a resolution because, for us, it is essential to be able to respond quickly with strong and ambitious measures to support this sector, which is a priority and one of the most affected in the aftermath of the crisis. But this is not just an economic issue. As was said in the hearings, Horeca is in the DNA of our country and our 11 million fellow citizens. It is almost part of our cultural heritage in Belgium, from the north to the south, whatever the Community, whatever the Region, but above all, the Horeca brightens our neighbourhood life, our streets, our cities and our countryside. It's an important part of our society. It is an important part of the conviviality of going with your neighbours, family, colleagues, friends in a restaurant, bar, coffee or other. This is part of the conviviality of our society and is also a fundamental element. Another very important element in our view, as ecologists, is obviously the quality of food, the ability to eat locally and the availability of quality food. These extremely important elements for us are increasingly found in establishments linked to horeca and catering. Finally, these are jobs that are well rooted in our regions since, by definition, a horeca establishment cannot be relocated to the other side of the world. From the beginning, it was important for us to have a broad democratic coalition around these proposals and this resolution. The discussions were rich and constructive. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all colleagues from all the democratic political groups for participating and playing the game. In memory, almost 70 amendments were discussed in two mornings of intense debate. We discussed the substantive principles. This is also good parliamentary work: Parliament can be proud to have such debates in parliamentary committees. I would like to thank all my colleagues, beyond the traditional divisions majority and opposition, etc. We were able to work together. I hope that, earlier, all the political groups will support the text positively, even those who abstained in committee. I also wanted to highlight an important element. We were quickly able to take this text into account, thanks to the urgency. But above all, we were able to hear the whole sector quickly. It was essential to listen to the horeca federations of Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders, which were present. The representatives of the workers and those of the middle classes were present. In one morning, we managed to address the concerns of the whole sector, including workers. It has been important to show that the representatives of the people we are are literally taking charge of the concerns of this sector very hard hit by the VOCID-19 crisis. At the level of the resolution itself, you were able to see 19 requests I will not go back to the whole. I would like to highlight a few provisions that were particularly important to us. I take, for example, the fact of making the banking guarantee law more accessible to the horeca sector. The feedback indicates that today, banks do not always play the game, even though an agreement has been reached with the federal government. It is essential for us that, in particular for the horeca sector, action be taken and that banks play more of the game by allowing better access to bank credit deferral. The second point of course concerns the extension of the bridge law for Horeca, as well as economic unemployment for this sector, through the preservation of quality and anchored jobs at home. We also addressed the issue of commercial leases, which are a real challenge for horeca establishments. We have made recommendations in this regard. We ask, for example, that federal institutions such as SNCB make a gesture. I am thinking of the situation of the horeca establishments in the stations, for which we wish that they do not pay rent for the period of compulsory closure. It's an essential signal. We also want a strong consultation with the breweries, since they also own several cafes. Dialogue must therefore be possible. These are important measures that cover all the costs and remaining difficulties in the sector. I could also quote everything about insurance. We therefore call for premiums to be deducted for the months of compulsory closure and for a dialogue with this sector. The same applies to the annual AFSCA and SABAM contributions, which must be calculated pro rata for this closure. The government must try to convince these public institutions to make an effort to do so. That seems to us to be absolutely fundamental. Bridge law and economic unemployment are, of course, important employment measures for the self-employed, so that they can survive, but other topics have also been taken into account through hearings and returns from the ground. Finally, I wanted to highlight the extension of the ONSS horeca deduction from five to ten workers until the end of the year, in order to help entrepreneurs in the sector during this period. It also seems necessary to remind us that the safety of workers is essential. I imagine that many colleagues have already - and I hope so - started to attend more horeca since Monday. We know that investments have been made to apply new standards, for example in the way tables are separated. The safety of workers and the new organisation are therefore paramount. The electronic means of payment and the cash register are all elements that we have added to this motion for a resolution and which must be applied by the beneficiaries of these measures. I will end by thanking again the colleagues from all the political groups, who have really played the game constructively. I hope that during the vote we can show this democratic national union around Horeca.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Monday the deconfinination has passed an important course, since our bars, our cafes and our restaurants, which are truly the symbol of this joy of living in Belgium, have been able to reopen their doors. Of course, we did not leave the inn, if you allow me this expression, but everyone is well aware of the importance of gestures and rules to limit the risk of contamination. Health protection must be our top priority more than ever. That is why this reopening is accompanied by a whole series of conditions, to reconcile the conviviality regained and the protection of the health of workers, but also of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, the horeca sector has paid a very heavy price during this ongoing health crisis. To these thousands of workers, self-employed people, employees who are taking over and who took up the activity a few days ago, I obviously wish a lot of courage, a lot of success for this recovery, but I also want to tell them that Parliament stands by their side. Social security played an indispensable role during this crisis. It remains one of the pillars of the country: the pillar remained standing, which has helped to avoid major tragedies. Temporary unemployment and bridge law for the self-employed were activated at an early stage. This, of course, is due to very strong social security, and to the work of those, especially the social partners, who have ensured the sustainable financing of this pillar in the past. However, as I said, the Horeca suffers. For almost three months, thousands of establishments had to remain closed without any financial return, but with expenses, rents, energy bills, insurance premiums that unfortunately continued to run. The cost of doing nothing for this sector is very severe. The figures were recalled during the hearings. We're talking about 23,000 companies at risk. Between 25 and 40% of companies are at risk of bankruptcy. Between 30,000 and 55,000 posts are at risk of disappearing, without additional support measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we must do everything possible to prevent this health crisis from turning into an economic and social crisis. At the same time, we must ensure that public aid is directed where the rules of the game are respected, which we believe is essential, as socialists. I welcome the high-quality work we have done with colleagues in the Committee on the Economy, which allows us today to propose a balanced package of measures. I will not, of course, go back to all the demands, but I would nevertheless like to point out social measures such as improving bridge law, prolonging temporary unemployment or this sine qua non condition that fixed workers cannot be replaced by mini-jobs. It was also a crucial point for us around the table. Other areas of importance include economic support measures, attention to contracts with brewers or rents (where the owner is a federal public authority), efforts to limit insurance and energy premiums, and reduced contributions to the Federal Food Chain Security Agency. As other colleagues have pointed out, these are therefore strong measures that enable a fragile sector to keep its head out of the water and to approach this recovery with greater confidence. Some of these measures have already been approved in the enlarged superkern last Saturday, which we can only welcome. However, other measures still need to be implemented, while ensuring that public funds are used effectively and that they are not open to fraud. I would like to thank colleagues very sincerely for the quality of the discussions that have been held, regardless of the ideas that have been defended by each other. I think that the horeca sector deserved this support, because in addition to being a salient element of Belgian heritage, it is a group of women and men who invest on a daily basis and who need strong stimulus measures. The Socialist Party has always supported, as part of a recovery plan, targeted support for the most affected sectors such as horeca or culture, in order to limit bankruptcies and preserve employment. It was therefore with great pleasure that I agreed, on behalf of my group, to co-sign this proposed text on the initiative of my colleagues at Ecolo-Groen, which I would like to thank at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that immediately after the announcement of the lockdown, the Flemish Interest submitted a motion for a resolution, on 17 March, in favour of aid to the catering industry. At that time, we knew that the hospitality industry would be very badly affected by the corona crisis which was still in its infancy and would cause deep wounds in the following months. As far as the catering industry is concerned, we then put a lot of questions to various committees. We have also advocated launching measures in general. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in February, when the corona virus was still far away in China, we were the first party in this hemisphere to say that we would be facing a particularly severe recession. Minister Muylle even said that we shouldn't take the word "recession" in the mouth and that we shouldn't scare people, but in the end we got right when we saw what happened in the months after that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a lot of proposals, both in committees and here in plenary, which have not always been taken seriously, but we note that other parties will see the light later. Witness our numerous motions of recommendation that are being voted down here, but we see that the ministers later adopt similar positions. The hospitality industry was already struggling for the corona era and many entrepreneurs went bankrupt at that time. That will only get worse in the coming period. Temporary measures are indeed necessary and we have always supported these temporary measures for any sector. Yesterday, during an interview in the committee, I told Minister Ducarme that temporary aid is of course important, but that it should also go mainly to those who really need it. I regret that I hear Minister De Croo say that we must now take temporary measures, but that the turn out of the crisis is for a few months, which means that it will be postponed de facto. If we look specifically at the catering industry, which is the subject of this motion for a resolution, then we must move towards more structural measures. I just said the hospitality business was already having a hard time for the corona era. That is why we have sought to initiate both legislative proposals and amendments, for example by calling for a permanent reduction in VAT for the catering industry to 6%, also in order not to eliminate the successive increases in excise duties in recent years by definition but to keep an eye on them and to see to what extent they have proved useful and to what extent they should all be maintained. After all, it is a sector in which many tens of thousands of workers are employed. During the committee meetings, I was somewhat disturbed by the suggestion that I sometimes saw in some politicians whose proposals were not always presented as realistic. For the Flemish interest, it is particularly important that they are realistic, feasible proposals that are in balance. When the resolution is adopted, we also hope that the policy will be further aligned with the regions, which also have a number of powers to intervene in a number of sectors and to boost the economy further. I also hope that there will not be too much break-in in the contracts between different parties, because it seems essential to me that contract law should be distorted as little as possible. If the public authorities take additional support measures, whether they concern the catering sector or other sectors, then there must also be sufficient control. We have, in all conscience, supported good amendments in committee. We voted away amendments which we do not think were realistic and which we consider to be bad. This means that much of what is now contained in the resolution and what has been added to it, through amendments, is partly due to the voting behaviour of the Flemish Interest. In fact, we all know that the Flemish interest in the Chamber today largely determines what is or is not approved in the Chamber, depending on our voting behaviour. Yesterday, moreover, I drew attention once again to all kinds of other sectors. For example, the catering industry is suffering today and necessary measures are needed for this sector, which we will naturally also support. However, there are also sectors which do not have a mouthpiece, but which are also having a hard time and which we must also have the courage to look at over the coming weeks and months. Colleagues, I mentioned it yesterday during another discussion. The real crisis has yet to begin. What we've seen so far is small beer compared to what's still coming at us. Tens of thousands more will be fired. The economic crisis has yet to begin. Many companies and entrepreneurs will apply the Renault Act. I would therefore like to call on you to support our motion for a recommendation, which will be put forward in the Chamber next week, so that we can also discuss with these other sectors and take measures, without, of course, falling into a barracks of rules, where no entrepreneur between the forest would see the trees. The initial aim of the resolution was to make a decision here today in Parliament. In this context, I regret the attitude and arrogance of Green in Parliament, which has repeatedly called on the committee not to play political games. For example, we have seen that we were refused to link our March 2020 resolution to the debate, while a proposal from the MR did. At the end of the debate in committee, it was also dared to distinguish between democratic and non-democratic parties. The speaker from Ecolo did the same earlier. There is therefore little or no respect for the second largest party in Flanders, which has tried to work constructively for the dossier and for the catering industry. When you consider us anti-democrats, you spit in the face of many voters in Flanders. In fact, this reduces Parliament to a kindergarten policy. I'm comparing that to the level of children's books. Where's Wally? In fact, where is Green thinking that she dares to insult the electorate, both in committee and here in the plenary? We're not in on it. Restaurants don't have a message today. Many companies and employees, and not only in the catering sector, will see black snow in the coming period. We are all representatives of the people, we all represent voters for which we must make our best efforts. For us, every voter is equal. We are looking at the content in particular, and we would very much like to call on this Parliament to be mature. To sum up, we believe that this proposal for a resolution is necessary, as witnessed by the previous debates we have had on this subject, but we also believe that structural measures in this area should be considered, particularly in the case of the catering sector. We hope that the sector will be able to recover quickly. We support this motion for a resolution and are pleased with it, but we hope that the debate will continue on the substance of the matter in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after all these considerations of my neighbour, which do not necessarily concern Horeca, I come back to our subject. It is true that this is an important sector in the country. We are talking about 57,000 businesses, 140,000 jobs, 96,000 self-employed. And, as my colleague Prévot pointed out, we are all very attached to our cafes, breweries and restaurants. These are places of conviviality. More importantly, these are places where social cohesion can be strengthened, which is essential. At the beginning of March, the health situation forced our country, like all the countries affected by coronavirus, to take drastic measures to protect our citizens from the pandemic. One of these measures was to shut down our horeca for an indefinite period of time. All the players in this sector have obviously been very affected by the closure of all these establishments. As a result, as of mid-March, the federal government introduced a series of measures to mitigate the socio-economic effects associated with VOCID-19, particularly for the horeca sector. I mention, among other things, temporary unemployment, the extension of the bridge law and the postponement of sums due to the State. Today, what is important is the gradual revival of the sector in order to avoid bankruptcies and, above all, job losses. It was in this context that the colleagues of the Ecolo-Groen Group brought the debate to Parliament and a motion for a resolution. Our group has also developed a horeca plan with measures that we have translated into another motion for a resolution in order to put in place a coherent aid plan for this sector. Some of the measures that we advocated were included in the text we voted for. Others don't. These measures include the postponement of annual leave in 2021, the introduction of a "Win for Horeca" or the use of eco-cheques in the horeca sector. On the other hand, we have noted our astonishment and even our opposition to a series of other measures included in the Ecolo-Green proposal which we felt were inappropriate. I quote, for example, tax measures that are almost inapplicable to both accountants and the Administration. I am also thinking of other intrusive measures aimed, for example, at regulating the type of contract to be preferred by employers. There is also the measure proposed by the PTB in connection with the extension of the terraces. This is a competence of the communes, but our comrades are probably not very aware of the distribution of competences in our country. Some of the measures my group was opposed to were rejected. I shall mention two of them: the freezing of bankruptcies until 31 December with the risk of a domino effect; the cancellation of commercial rents by the public authorities, which would have created unfair competition. I would like to stress, however, that several of the measures contained in the motion for a resolution are important for the sector. I am thinking in particular of the introduction of a general reduction of the VAT rate from 21 % to 6 %, and of the improvement of the law on bank guarantee to make it more accessible to the horeca sector. Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre also stressed this point. I regret that we had to work in haste last Friday when this motion for a resolution relates to an important sector of our economy which has been very affected by the crisis. It should be noted that the day after the vote in committee last Saturday, Kern +10 validated a whole series of support measures specific to sectors in difficulty, including Horeca, following the proposals that had previously been tabled by the government. To conclude my speech, I would like to recall these measures: the extension and improvement of the bridge law until 31 August 2020, which will be extended until 31 December 2020 – this is an important wish of the MR Group; the extension of temporary unemployment until 31 December 2020; the reduction of VAT to 6% on beverages and food; a consumer cheque of EUR 300 for sectors mainly affected by the crisis which can be granted by the employer for the purchase of goods and services in sectors such as Horeca and culture, which will be fully deductible and defied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Monday, restaurant operators were finally allowed to do what many of them and no doubt others are looking forward to, namely to reopening the doors. In the committee, I argued that a city like Antwerp or a municipality like Kalmthout gets a completely different character without catering and without living in the street. It is not just about economic importance, but also about so much more about conviviality. This means, of course, that the catering sector is economically viable and has the necessary financial breathing space, even in difficult times and circumstances, such as at the start-up. We are therefore all pleased that the so-called super core with the ten parties adopted a whole package of measures last Saturday, including many specific support measures for the catering sector. While the VAT reduction may be most obvious, other important measures have been taken, such as the bridging loan and, until the end of the year, the extension of the specific temporary unemployment scheme; in short, important measures giving oxygen to the catering sector, which has been so severely affected by the corona crisis. A day before the super-core approved and announced the measures, we voted in committee meetings on measures as they stand today. During the discussions at the committee meeting, I noted a number of times that we, as politicians, regardless of majority or opposition, regardless of whether or not a party belongs to the government or even to parties in general, have to watch how we deal with it. In a motion for a resolution we announce some possible measures. In times of crisis, people, catering operators and entrepreneurs in general need concrete measures. They want to know what is going to happen, what they can do with what instruments. Some of these concrete measures have already been approved by the super-core, so that they can be counted on with certainty. In the meantime, there is also a motion for a resolution with many good elements, partly overlapping the decisions of the super-core. However, the proposal also contains less good elements and elements which may not be realised immediately, either because their implementation takes time or because they cannot be technically easily implemented or have already been implemented in other legislation. I am thinking, for example, of the carry-back scheme, which was adopted yesterday in the Finance Committee and which goes through the specific measure contained in the motion for a resolution. That is why I have always expressed the concern to emphasise, as politicians, those concrete measures which we are sure will be implemented on the ground and to which entrepreneurs will have something. Let us beware of promises that may not be fulfilled. That's what I keep taking care of. I see a number of points in the proposal on tension, such as the carry-back scheme, which will be dealt with in a different way, independently of the catering industry, and the proposals on brewery concession contracts and the granting of a tax credit, which we do not see implemented directly. Other proposals for measures come a little late, such as the suspension of commercial leases by public authorities such as SNCB. In the meantime, there is an agreement between SNCB and its tenants. Moreover, it is difficult to suspend commercial leases when the sector has re-established its activities. In short, some proposals come a little late or will be difficult to achieve. What is the point of the hospitality manager's inclusion in the motion for a resolution? Many other proposed measures will receive our support. That is what we said in the Rule-by-Rule vote in committee. Because we consider it more important to control the right birds instead of in the air, we will abstain in the vote on the motion for a resolution, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u182	Mr President, I would like to make a small parenthesis to reply to Mr Friart. I just wanted to tell him that I had studied my lesson well and that I know that if we want to expand a terrace, it's communal. We simply want to give federal direction to this problem, so that all the municipalities are housed in the same sign. I therefore knew that this was a communal competence. Thank you, Mr. Friart. On behalf of the PTB, we wanted to express our great concern for the Horeca sector, for all its workers who bring culinary art to life, who animate our streets through their welcoming terraces and who allow us to have good moments with friends or family. I am thinking in particular of the restaurateurs, the caterers, the small coffee owners who spend 200 % on ensuring the financial viability of their establishment and the maintenance of their employees. We all know they work hard and don't count their hours. For some, their teaching is the sacrifice of a lifetime. I am also thinking of the waiters, the chefs, the divers, the barmen, the kitchen clerks or the receptionists who are working to satisfy their customers as best as possible, sometimes up to no time with little rest time. These are very physical and stressful jobs where contact with the client can be difficult. In addition, they often combine precarious contracts for a short period of time. It is therefore all those workers who are going through a crisis with dramatic social impacts. The numbers are cold in the back. One in five institutions indicate that a bankruptcy is more than likely and more than six in ten expect to separate from a portion of their staff. The situation is all the more worrying as many shows and cultural events will be cancelled this summer. The end of confinement therefore represents a difficult new period for them. Restriction measures have a significant impact on their activity. We don't question them. We therefore need to accompany the various establishments as best as possible and to protect the workers in the sector for as long as necessary. That is why we have co-signed this motion for a resolution. Ambitious measures must be taken. I am thinking of the extension of bridge law and temporary unemployment, the reduction of rents, the postponement of credits, the suspension of premiums and subscriptions of all kinds, such as banking terminals. I am also thinking of the reduction in VAT, the extension of the terraces, as we asked, or the non-replacement of fixed employees by flexi-jobs. All these measures are therefore in the right direction. On the other hand, I would like to conclude quickly by addressing a key point for us, namely the financing of social security and the transfer of over-profits. We have all seen how vital our country's social security is to the survival of the population. And I weigh my words by saying "survival." It is thanks to our social model that all workers and entrepreneurs in our country have been able to benefit from temporary unemployment and bridge law. We must therefore consider new sources of funding for social security, and for the revenue of the State in general. Social protection should be as effective, as inclusive and as sustainable as possible. This is why, with the PTB, instead of emptying out sources of social security funding by lowering ONSS contributions, we are defending other measures, such as the temporary reduction of the occupational discount, or the creation of a fund to help the self-employed and SMEs, fed by the over-profits made in recent months by the e-commerce and retail giants. We believe that a collective effort must be made in the context of this crisis. Some multinationals saw their profits grow considerably when they were already in a very comfortable situation before the crisis. I am thinking in particular of Amazon. The company's boss has raised more than $24 billion since the outbreak of the pandemic. While we see a social bloodbath in the Horeca area, we think that it is normal for a fair redistribution of wealth to take place. That is why, with the PTB, we will continue to provide constructive solutions to help all workers in the Horeca sector, until the activity resumes at 100%, and all restrictive measures are withdrawn. They can count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has hit the hospitality industry very hard, as turnover fell by 90% in recent months. It was also almost the only sector that could reboot this late, which happened last Monday to the delight of many. We support the objective of this resolution to support the catering industry at the start-up and in the coming days. Companies that were healthy at the start of the pandemic or who invested precisely because they believe in the future of the catering industry should be able to survive this crisis. That is why the government immediately started working with all democratic parties and a revival plan for the catering and events sector was already adopted at last weekend's super core. This support plan contains many measures, without interfering with rental or brewery contracts. It includes additional measures in addition to temporary unemployment, e.g. the VAT reduction, the restart of the bridging right or the leisure check. The parliamentary work was good and perhaps gave supportive insight to the super core. The added value of this resolution is therefore very limited, as the government has already come up with a support plan in consultation with most parties. Our group will abstain in the vote here, as in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no one needs to be convinced of the importance of our catering sector. Restaurants are in our DNA. He employs thousands of people and also links a whole chain of suppliers, from the food sector to the transport companies. The sector has been hit tremendously hard. The catering industry was one of the sectors that had to close first and was one of the last to be able to restart, with a series of restrictive measures preventing it from operating at full capacity. So the catering industry really needs a strong government that invests in it and supports it. The resolution before us provides a very wide range of support measures. That's really what the sector needs. It's true, last week the supercore decided on a number of things. A number of measures have been adopted and announced. All these measures are important, but what is ahead today is wider than what has been decided there. I hear Mr Verhelst say that this resolution has no added value. Mr Van den Bergh wonders what the significance of this resolution is, since these measures will no longer be implemented. That seems a little too easy to me. For, let us be honest, for this resolution, a large majority has been found in this House. The measures are, of course, intended to be implemented. This is in the interests of the catering sector. What does it say, for example? Request 12: Asks the federal government to engage in dialogue with the sector and to establish a regime for brewery and concession contracts. That may seem like a very banal phrase, but it does have a huge impact on the café and restaurant operators. If a café operator is unable to buy enough drinks, if he cannot comply with his brewery contract, he may be confronted with the unilateral termination of his lease. If he hasn't sold enough pints in that month, he may have lost his contract, he may have lost his property, and therefore he will go bankrupt. Just because of the choke contract. These contracts also mean that a café operator sometimes has to pay double the price for the same barrel of beer. This also means that fines are imposed if someone can sell less. With the restrictive measures currently in force, that is something that awaits those people. Colleagues, these choke contracts cause the hospitality operators to be confronted with enormous uncertainty. I believe that it is our duty to recognise that this is really a problem. It is also included in the resolution. Then you say that our resolution will not have much added value for those entrepreneurs. I believe that is absolutely not the case. For example, there is also the following. Annual fees to the BFSA and copyright companies should also be reviewed. It can't be that a bar that had to close the doors for three months, that hasn't played music for three months, that has to pay for all that. That doesn't make any sense. Finally, the government chose to introduce a carry-back system, but only focuses on companies that made profits in 2019. That is just not what this resolution is doing. This resolution also focuses on companies that have only just started and have not yet made a profit, and also on catering companies that have invested a lot in recent years. It is very important to support these issues as well and to take this aspect into account. Our amendment to the resolution therefore does exactly that. So this is actually an improvement on what was decided last Saturday. It's bigger and better. This proposal was given a majority in committee and it is possible to ask whether it would be better to implement all these additional measures as soon as possible. To conclude, I would like to thank the initiators and my fellow Members for the constructive debate. I would also like to call on the government to speed up the implementation of these additional measures, which will be particularly important for the catering sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u185	After this discussion, there is still one bill and one motion for a resolution, for which 15 speakers are inscribed. I do not wish to hold the debate, but I wanted to share it with you. There will then be discussions on taking into account and requesting urgent action, as well as votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u186	Mr President, I would like to stress the constructive work in committee, in consultation with the sector and the various political groups, which have tried to bring important things to a sector that suffers enormously. Although there are opportunities for reopening, it is known that they are extremely complicated to implement for some. I also stress the form of consultation within the superkern which, in parallel with this resolution, has taken a number of positive steps to which we adhere. In particular, there is the cheque to be spent in the Horeca and/or the culture, which had been refused in commission. The main thing is that it is effective, for the benefit of the sector. Important measures were recalled, such as bridge law, economic unemployment, and the reduction of certain charges and rents for public owners. We regret that there has been nothing for private owners because we know that it is very difficult to honor rents for the moment. There have also been measures concerning electricity consumption or insurance. Some of our measures have not been accepted, like those of other political parties, and we could have put them back here. I am thinking in particular of the exemption from social security contributions for the first and second quarters and the 50% reduction for the third and fourth quarters. We will not do so because we want to respect the work that will probably be done tomorrow in the superkern. We will defend this measure because it is important for us that it be effective in giving oxygen to this sector which is in great need of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all had the same reaction when we learned of the decision of the National Security Council to reopen Horeca on 8 June. We all wondered which bar, which restaurant we were going to be able to return to in the first place. We also thought that we were going to find a life a little bit normal. Because horeca is ultimately this: conviviality, sharing simple moments with your family, with your friends, escaping from the stress of daily life or working tensions. For the sector, this announcement was also a great relief. A deliverance as well, although surrounded by strict health constraints, but of course justified. But also and above all a way to limit the damage caused by these two and a half months of confinement. It will take time, a great deal of time, to enable the sector to regain its profitability before the crisis. A profitability that benefits not only the sector, but the whole of our economy and our social life. Because next to the Horeca, there are also suppliers and businesses that depend on it. That is why it is essential and urgent to support this sector, which is both dynamic and fragile. Dynamic because 6 to 7 000 companies are created each year, so we have 4.4 horeca companies per 1 000 inhabitants; but also fragile, because the sector was already, outside the crisis, the second sector most affected by bankruptcies: 21% of the total number of bankruptcies in Belgium concern horeca. It is also known that, during this period of confinement, the Horeca sector was, together with the arts and culture sector, the most severely affected from the socio-economic point of view. In the Committee on the Economy, as has been said, we have heard the representative organisations of the sector, as well as the trade unions. I must say that I was impressed by their willingness to assume their responsibilities today as part of their recovery, but also by their determination to scrupulously comply with health regulations, both for the health of their workers and for the health of their clients. The aim here is to avoid a rebound in the epidemic and therefore a further closure of the Horeca, which would then be a real disaster for our economy. The sector repeated this in committee: this recovery could not be made at any price, without taking into account the great diversity of the sector and without the real support of the federal government. It is also known that one in five establishments should remain closed because a reopening under current conditions would be at a loss. That is why this motion for a resolution calls on the government, too, to shoulder its responsibilities by adopting new measures to support the Horeca sector. I am talking about new measures since, between the tabling of our proposal and today, the government has taken certain measures that were more than necessary and that our original text already mentioned, namely the extension of bridge law and temporary unemployment, the temporary reduction of VAT to 6%, the freezing of bankruptcies or the postponement of social contributions. This shows that the government has understood that allocating a significant part of the state budget in this sector represents a real investment in our economy, but also in the well-being of our workers and entrepreneurs, that is, of all those people who are currently fighting to avoid falling apart in a few months, which is often the project of a lifetime or, in any case, of a lifetime. Nevertheless, we must go further. That is why our motion for a resolution also proposes - and among other things - the easing of the criteria for access to temporary credits, the reduction of insurance premiums and energy subscriptions during confinement or the adaptation of the annual contribution AFSCA and SABAM. Of course, we could have gone even further, as proposed by the amendments tabled by Défi in committee. They included the suspension of subscriptions to Bancontact and telephone payment terminals during the confinement period or the exemption of employers' social security contributions. We were also defending the extension of the tax shelter system to those horeca companies that were in good health before the crisis. This measure is currently being debated in the government supported by the Group of 10 and could therefore be adopted tomorrow. This provision is of great interest to us, and is particularly dear to my colleague François De Smet, because, as he rightly says, if we manage to mobilise even 10% of the EUR 980 billion in Belgian savings accounts, we will have enough money to finance much of our recovery. Indeed, the tax shelter is this smart way to involve our citizens' savings in the revival of the horeca sector and the national economy in general. I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this measure which, I must remind you, is requested both by Unizo and by the Horeca Federation. In any case, it follows from these considerations that this motion for a resolution has the merit of highlighting the need to support an entire sector and, therefore, the 150 000 people who make it live in Belgium and who, through their work and dedication, allow us to finally relive the moments of conviviality that we have so missed during this confinement. This text is not exhaustive, as we know. Rather, it is a means of motivating the government in its efforts to support the sectors that are now particularly in arrears and, among them, the Horeca. Finally, I would like to thank the authors of this text for their initiative but also for their confidence, since they have allowed me to have the pleasure of co-signing it. I would also like to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in constructive exchanges in committee, proof that our slogan 'Union is strength - Eendracht maakt macht', which now adorns our House, still makes sense when it comes to helping our fellow citizens to recover from this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u188	And last but not least, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u189	Mr President, I understand your comment on the number of speeches that are planned. I think a number of colleagues would like to conclude in good time to enjoy, for example, the catering industry which has since been reopened. It is nice that we persist and it also shows that we not only want to go to the catering industry, but also really love them. What is going on here is a very good thing for that sector. This has already been explained in detail by colleagues. These are a whole range of measures born in different places, measures with different fathers and mothers, a comprehensive package that the sector can develop. After the reopening, the challenge is not over, quite the contrary. There are still many fronts to fight. It is a good thing that our Parliament is taking the lead in this. I have already said in committee that I do not understand competitive thinking very well. I'll report that myself, along with my colleague Vanden Burre. Several political groups have tabled proposals and the government has already put a number of measures in place. It is important for the sector to know that there is a parliamentary majority in favour of these measures. In addition, this resolution puts forward additional measures. I think this is a nice overall package that we should continue to work on. It is true that not all the measures are prepared in concrete terms by the government. That is why my proposal to examine with the relevant ministers in the relatively short term how the other measures can be implemented, so that the resolution can also be rolled out in its entirety. It seems to me to be a good idea to proceed in this way, with the various colleagues, with the various groups, with the emergency plan for the catering industry. I hope that we can continue this way of working. I think it is a little unfortunate that we have not managed to force the House-wide adoption of the resolution. There are abstentions from the government parties. But in the end, everyone has to make their own choice. That will not diminish our conviction to continue to work on this. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have contributed to amendments, Mr Houtmeyers, Mr Depraetere and the PS colleagues. I hope that we will be able to address other issues in the future in an equal way. I also believe that it is up to Parliament to inspire the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u190	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u191	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u192	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Meryame Kitir, Anja Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u193	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u194	Mr President, the bill No. The aim of Mrs Kitir's 1212 is to suspend, by analogy with the existing temporary unemployment scheme for economic reasons, the period of notice during periods of temporary unemployment due to COVID-19 force majeure. This bill was sent to the Council of State at its plenary session on 20 May with a request for an urgent opinion. The Council of State delivered that opinion. In short, three reservations were raised. Concerns were expressed about the retroactivity of the date of entry into force, about the retroactivity of the award of the supplement to be paid by the employer for termination periods already in progress on 1 March and finally about the unequal treatment of force majeure COVID-19 compared with other force majeure. The proposal was therefore sent back to committee. This afternoon, the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions reviewed the amendments. In the light of the opinion of the Council of State, a number of amendments have therefore been withdrawn. These included the amendments of the N-VA, MR and CD&V. PVDA wished to keep its amendments, as they considered that this could have already been settled through the Royal Decree, despite the negative opinion of the Council of State on retroactivity. The amendments were then voted on. Amendments Nos. 15 and 16 of Open Vld were approved. As a result, the retroactive award of a supplement by the employer was deleted and the date of entry into force of this law was regulated. This law would enter into force on the day of publication in the Belgian Official Journal. In this way, we respond to the opinion of the Council of State. Mrs Kitir also asked for a text to be added to the report to justify the Council of State's comment on the principle of equality. The amendments tabled by Mr De Vuyst from PVDA and Ms Moscufo from PTB were not approved. Finally, the proposal was adopted unanimously. Let me say a few words on behalf of the CD&V Group. In any case, we are very pleased that progress has finally been made on this dossier. The suspension of the performance of a contract of employment due to COVID-19 shall not suspend the period of notice. In this way, part and sometimes even the whole period of notice is passed on to social security, in other words unemployment. Normally, the employer must be responsible for that period and also for the remuneration for that period. The present bill provides that: in future, the deadline will be suspended when people are unemployed by COVID-19. Temporary unemployment due to force majeure was introduced to offer employers a way out of reducing contracts due to the corona crisis or at the closure of their business because of the lack of respect for distance measures. In this way, the employer can keep employees working and cover a certain period of time and then let them get back to work. If an employer chooses, for whatever reason, including economic, to dismiss the employee, it cannot be the intention that the notice period should run at the time when the employee is still in temporary unemployment. If an employee is still fired, he should be given the opportunity to perform a notice period or at least receive a cancellation fee that is normally due. That was a gap in the law, which led to the cancellation period of certain workers being temporarily unemployed, causing them to lose their income or to suffer. Not all employers have a surplus in excess of what workers receive as unemployment benefits, i.e. 70% of their wages. Some employers have done so voluntarily, but it was certainly not mandatory. In the meantime, a lot of employers have fired people because the law allowed it at that time, until today. The Council of State pointed out that we cannot apply the law retroactively: from a legal point of view, this is not justified. That is why our group agreed to remove retroactivity and to provide a solution at least for the future, although of course we would have liked the workers concerned not to have been the victims and that they had not suffered any loss of income. We hope that in this way we have taken into account the concerns of everyone and the comments of the Council of State. I am glad that the bill was adopted unanimously in committee and I expect that we will do so later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u195	Mr President, perhaps somewhat unlike the previous speaker, I can understand why there is a difference between the right of dismissal in the event of temporary unemployment for economic reasons or temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure. One is, of course, the result of a policy choice or a choice of the company itself, whereas the other is not. So there's a logic in that. The initiator, Mrs Kitir, is right to point out that the rapid approach and the rapid collapse of the procedure at the start of the COOVID-19 crisis created an opportunity to abuse that difference in suspension. This will undoubtedly have happened, albeit to a lesser extent than was proposed at any given time. Most employers don't fire people for fun. Most employers, by falling back on temporary unemployment, also do everything in their power to maintain their staff. However, there are situations where this is very difficult. I think it's a fair question from the beginning. If I remember correctly, our group even voted yes at first reading. It was an example of legislation that went so quickly that, for the sake of clarity, we too late noticed the possible side effects. Fortunately, that was noticed in time. It is a pity that we were not able to reach the agreement that we are now reaching. After all, this could have landed at the same point. But I also have a great deal of respect for the moving insight. What we are doing now is keeping it very limited from publication in the Belgian Official Journal. As a result, we do not punish employers who have worked properly within the framework and standards, even though this working method has had side effects that we had better avoided from the outset. We are not doing that now, by removing the retroactive element from the proposal. The scheme will run until the moment the temporary unemployment due to COOVID-19 will apply. It's a reasonable compromise. We must then return to the original distinction between the two systems, although this will undoubtedly lead to a further debate in committee. In any case, I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their constructive cooperation so that we can finally land in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u196	My group would like to react quickly to this text, which we have supported from the outset in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was indeed important for us, in the interests of workers, not only to have as strong a protection as possible, but also to have the same rules depending on whether we find ourselves in a situation of temporary economic unemployment or a situation of unemployment as a result of force majeure. We have supported this bill from the beginning. The Council of State then made remarks, and various amendments were tabled in response to those comments. Even today, we have had a new debate in committee in order to rectify certain requests in relation to the opinion of the Council of State. Following the same logic, we will support the amendments and the text by a positive vote. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the constructive work done in committee on this important issue of worker protection, and to thank Mr Kitir, the author of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u197	Mr President, I am particularly pleased that today we can land with a consensus on the subject, now that the present draft law after amendment has been adopted at the additional meeting of the Social Affairs Committee. I am also pleased that we can finally land a legislative proposal that provides clarity for both employees and employers. We both need a lot in our economy and no one has anything to do with bad legal work. For the workers, however, I regret that we have only been able to land today. Unfortunately, the consensus found today preceded a political play. When it came to light at the end of April that some employers might have abused a loophole in legislation and were pleased that they had found it, with which they made headlines, immediate action was, rightly, taken. In fact, it was never the intention to organise cheap discards and have them paid by social security. While thousands of companies and businessmen struggled to keep their firm and often their life's work alive, some employers blackmailed all other employers as practitioners, who would lay off massive workers at the expense of social security. The behavior of some cowboys put thousands of well-meaning entrepreneurs in a bad light, while most of them experienced their worst nightmare and regrettably will have to fire good workers, thus losing a lot of experience and perhaps a piece of the soul of their company. Let me return to the beginning of the problem. At the start of the corona crisis and the economic crisis which followed almost immediately, the difference between temporary unemployment for economic reasons and technical unemployment was de facto eliminated by the RVA because of force majeure measures, because the government decided that a company had to resort to force majeure if it wanted to have recourse to technical unemployment. This simplification led to a rapid treatment of the temporary unemployed, but unfortunately it also had the perverse effect of changing the dismissal rules for affected workers. However, the firms had no choice at the time. By the way, they still don't have that choice today. A solution could also have been to re-establish applications for temporary unemployment in accordance with the pre-corona crisis system, so that it is clear to entrepreneurs what form of temporary unemployment they are using and what its consequences are. If we're gonna land on a compromise that everyone's been carrying today, we're gonna have to take a deep look at our own deer. The biggest problem solved today following the destructive advice of the Council of State is the retroactive effect of the bill. The retroactive effect in the most severe sense of the word was introduced after a very chaotic committee meeting on the text at second reading. The only amendments we had received in advance were those of Mr Van Peel. The rest we got in a tumultuous meeting, which was suspended several times, while everyone was waiting for e-mailed amendments, which just didn't come. In the discussion, it was often unclear what exactly was going on, let alone whether we could examine the amendments in advance. Looking back on that, I have to conclude that a parliamentary discussion on such an important subject was unworthy. An opinion from the Council of State was even refused by the majority of the committee. That was just a delay manoeuvre according to the opponents. When the opinion of the Council of State was requested during the previous plenary discussion and that question was supported by the Flemish Interest, we received comments. I thought that was a fair question at the time. I am therefore pleased today that we have supported the request for an opinion. His advice has saved us from bad legislation all too often, and today he is doing so again. Without the political scene, without the race for the most punitive bill, without rejecting any search for a compromise at first and second reading, we could have completed the vote a few weeks earlier, because the text before us today is actually the same text as after the first reading on 7 May. We could have made the clarity we are creating today earlier. Then we could have helped a lot more employees. Let it be a wise lesson for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be very brief, given the rather late hour of the day, but I would be remiss if I did not come back for a moment to the history of this issue. On 30 April, this bill received the benefit of urgency. A first reading was held on 7 May at which the MR was already questioning the major legal difficulties which the text thus tabled would entail. On 19 May, a second reading was organised and many amendments were tabled. I will not go back to the circumstances in which these amendments were tabled. But it is clear that the tabling of amendments written on a corner of the table did not serve this bill. The amendments could be divided into two categories: those that simplified the situation and corrected the shortcomings of the text, and those that complicated it. Indeed, the bill thus amended would make a difference between the notice given before 1 March and after 1 March. It would create a difference between fully completed and uncompleted notices. It would create a difference between the notices still in progress as of May 5 and those that had already been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u199	Mr Bihet, I invite you to speak more slowly in order to facilitate the work of the interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u200	Mr President, at the request of the interpreters, I provided them with a copy of my statement. I'm going on. In addition, the text would create a legal vacuum for the notices still pending on 5 May, which would end before the vote on the text and the notices notified since 5 May for which compensation had been paid in the meantime. Instead, the MR and Open Vld groups tabled an amendment that allowed the text to retain its amendment for the future in order to eliminate the difference between temporary unemployment for force majeure and temporary economic unemployment, but by withdrawing, as has been said, any retroactive effect. The objective was clear: not to add legal uncertainty where there was already economic uncertainty. Unfortunately, this option was not retained in committee. However, at the plenary meeting on 28 May 2020, several groups asked for the opinion of the Council of State on this proposal and, fortunately, because this opinion is clear. In essence, the Council of State recalled that it is settled case-law that retroactive effect can only be provided for under very strict and well-defined conditions and that these conditions are not met. The Council of State also concluded that any retroactive effect of the proposed scheme should be waived. This opinion, although predictable and expected, contains lessons which we believe will be valid for other proposals under consideration in the Committee on Social Affairs but which could also have been valid for proposals which have already been adopted by this House and which contain devastating retroactive effects. It is our duty not to vote on texts that could increase uncertainty at this time of social and economic turmoil. In our turn, we thank all colleagues for their votes in committee just now, which, in particular, removed the retroactive effect of this law. That is why we will support this amended text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been getting signals since April that people have been fired. They were put into temporary unemployment and then coldly received their resignation letter on the bus. With that they lost their job in one stone and a very large part of their income. In normal circumstances, employees are protected by Belgian dismissal law, which entitles them to a legally defined period of notice. During that period they are therefore insured of their income. This protects workers, while providing employers with a response to avoid frivolous dismissal. The latter is an important part of the protection of dismissals. At least that was the logic just before the corona crisis. At some point, however, a royal decision was taken in which a loophole was left open, allowing employers very easily to dismiss people at the expense of social security. My group believes that there has been a rather slight transition in recent weeks. The cancellation period and the corresponding cancellation fee are basic elements of the working conditions of the workers in our country. Everyone knows in advance that they are entitled to do so if an employment contract is terminated. It is therefore very important to maintain that legal certainty for workers. In this sense, we believe that the general interest has been damaged and we are not satisfied with the opinion of the Council of State. The Minister for Labour said in committee that there is an exception, a temporary unemployment scheme due to force majeure. That scheme applies only in exceptional cases, for example in case of fire or storm damage. So that was always an exception. Now, however, the rule has been made of this exception in theory. The Royal Decree actually reversed the right of dismissal. The Royal Decree failed to make it impossible for companies to dismiss workers because of force majeure and to place them in temporary unemployment. As I said, the absolute exception became the rule. We need to think about that. Is it possible that the current government, with a very low legitimacy of only 38 seats in the Chamber, will implement this, thereby reversing the principle? Nor do we understand that this has been affected by the super-core. In any case, because of this negligence, the government in practice changed the right of dismissal in our country by introducing a choice which was not legally intended and which completely undermined the spirit of the right of dismissal. We believe that this has indeed damaged the general interest, which I have just explained in committee. Social rights for workers must be maintained with the associated legal certainty. In our view, fundamental changes to the right of dismissal can only be made through transparent democratic procedures, not through a sudden standardisation of an exception rule, as happened retroactively from 1 March 2020 through the Royal Decree on "temporary unemployment corona" of 30 March 2020. It is also a bit harsh and ironic that Minister Muylle announced in her press release at the time of the Royal Decree to introduce temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure because of the COVID virus that the point of view was to avoid redundancies and bankruptcies. In practice, we see that redundancies are not avoided but facilitated, because the gate was left open. That's funny. When you think about it, it's weird. Yesterday, Swissport announced a further 1,500 layoffs. They're not the first layoffs and, I'm afraid, not the last. It is therefore very important that today's legislative proposal should be adopted, so that the reversal of Belgian dismissal law can be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the government has been aware of the problem since the end of April. Only now, almost halfway through June, could we come to a solution. However, the government has powers of attorney and can address pressing problems through proxy decisions. This was also done, for example, with temporary unemployment, also retroactively, from 1 March. In this way, the government could also have closed the door that was left open: repair was possible, also retrospective, through a royal decree. However, it was referred to Parliament, on which an opinion of the Council of State was requested. Now here we are, with that advice on retroactivity. I will conclude with the appeal that, once this law has been adopted, and I expect nothing other than that will happen, we will also compensate those people who have suffered from that back door since 1 March and who have not been able to suspend their notice period. That's very important. I have tabled an amendment in committee in order to apply it retroactively because we can properly justify that the public interest has been damaged. I am very sorry that the progressive parties did not follow us in this, but abstained. The Flemish interest, which always claims to side with the workers and always sets out a social face, also voted against the interests of the working people. In normal circumstances, these people were entitled to 100 % of their pay during their notice period. I hope that this will be taken up by the government and by the supercore in order to ensure that the hundreds of people who have suffered from it, who have been sent with a brat, who have fallen back to 70% of their wages and who have seen a discharge pay cut through the nose, can somehow be compensated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks, this dossier has been a turbulent process, but we are pleased to be able to conclude and approve it today. We indicated from the outset that we were in agreement with the spirit of this proposal. Friend and enemy acknowledge that the smooth temporary unemployment is one of the most important economic measures taken by the federal government in recent months in the context of the corona crisis. We are now faced with a lot of redundancies, but without these measures, job losses would undoubtedly have been 10 to 30 times higher. We have avoided a huge amount of redundancies by temporarily taking over a significant part of the wage costs of the companies that had to stop their activity. For administrative reasons, the motive was chosen for force majeure. The result, which in fact was not foreseen, was that, in the event of dismissal, the notice period would be extended during temporary unemployment. This is not the case with economic unemployment. If the notice period continues during temporary unemployment, social security actually pays the cancellation. That can't be the intention. We cannot, on the one hand, create a measure to avoid redundancies and, on the other hand, shape that measure in such a way that it can be used to make redundancies cheaper. We are therefore pleased that this will end. We have also indicated from the outset that we must resolve this for the future, not retroactively. We also need to be careful when we take words like abuse in our mouths. Some say that employers have abused the scheme in order to be able to fire workers. I can tell you that no employer fires people for pleasure. They make that decision if they are forced to do so by the economic conditions. Unfortunately, there are companies that can only fire people, despite all the support measures that the government has put in place. They do so very often in order to protect the employment of the other employees in the company. That's an important nuance. If this measure were to be applied retroactively, a large number of companies would suddenly be burdened with additional unforeseen costs, which would add to the financial problems that led to redundancies in the first place. The chances of additional redundancies or bankruptcy will be increased again. Moreover, it is not the fault of the companies that they correctly applied the rules. As the Council of State also writes in its opinion, there was no choice even to suspend the notice period. After all, the law stipulates that it must continue. Especially in these difficult economic times, a stable legal framework is essential. We therefore note that the Council of State is asking for every retroactive element to be removed from this bill. In order to achieve this, our amendments were just adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs. In this way, we can conclude this dossier in a very positive way today. I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for the constructive cooperation that has taken place over the last few days in order to bring this proposal into line with the comments made by the Council of State. We shall therefore be delighted to approve the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u203	Mr President, in the end, the only option of temporary force majeure unemployment for companies affected by the VOCID-19 is still at the root of the problem for the workers concerned. I would like to point out in particular that there are abuses on the part of employers with regard to redundancies. I'm not naive. No doubt it exists. At the same time, I find that employers are often presented in a caricatureal way, as if they were fired for pleasure. This positive text for the workers concerned posed important problems in its initial formulation, which were also validated by the Council of State and also highlighted by employers, i.e. retroactivity. While the initial responsibility of the latter was in the government's choice on the part of temporary force majeure unemployment, retroactivity penalized employers who had nevertheless complied with the rules imposed on them. This retroactivity would also have been a significant additional cost in a difficult context. In order to do well for the workers concerned, there was also a risk, with the scheme as originally planned, of harming other workers and thus leading to potentially greater job losses. Following the opinion of the Council of State that it was, in my opinion, important to consult for this text, we have therefore amended the text today in committee by completely abolishing retroactivity, thus allowing us to support the bill this evening. I have no doubt that, in the future, we will probably have to go back to this issue not in relation to the period VOCID-19, but in order to examine in the future what should be done between economic unemployment and unemployment as a force majeure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u204	Mr President, it has already been said today: the corona virus has ruined normal life and obliged companies to close down their businesses. The government has come up with a solution through a KB to ensure that workers do not lose their income, namely the introduction of temporary unemployment due to COOVID-19. In doing so, she forgot to include the provision on the suspension of periods of notice, such as those applicable to technical and economic unemployment, in the Royal Decree. The result is that the companies can do a "Torfske." This means that employees can actually be dismissed for free, because the costs of cancellation are still borne by the government. Not only wage costs are taken over from employers, but also the cancellation fee. We want to close that back door with our proposal. Getting fired in itself is a heavy blow. Employees sit at home and receive a phone call, an email or a letter saying that they are losing their jobs, a heavy result of the COOVID-19 measures. Crisis or not, who gets fired, deserves respect, in the form of a cancellation fee, which is paid effectively, as in normal times. With our proposal, we want to correct the mistake of the government. Originally, we wanted to offer a solution from 1 March because everyone agrees with the philosophy that the cancellation fee should not be borne by social security. However, the opinion of the Council of State that we cannot work retroactively has been different in that regard. We have taken this into account and adapted the text to the opinion of the Council of State. I am therefore very pleased and pleased that we can vote on our proposal today, so that we will protect workers in the future. This means that, from the date of publication, the current termination periods and cancellation periods for future redundancies for workers in temporary unemployment will be suspended. Several speakers have already indicated that the proposal has been much delayed. But, ladies and gentlemen, the walkways in Parliament have their strength and the COOVID-19 measures have prevented us from seeing each other in person. The most important thing is that we have found each other today and agreed on the philosophy that employers cannot dismiss workers free of charge by passing the dismissal on to social security. I would like to thank everyone for their constructive attitude at the committee meeting and in plenary today. I call on the Minister, who is not present today, and some of his party members are present here, to work on the publication of the law, after hopefully being approved today. All I have left is a word of thanks to everyone. Know that the text, if adopted, will be a great relief for many workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u205	I wanted a clearer answer from the Vlaams Belang. Are you for or against retroactivity for workers? Why did you vote against our amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u206	I hope you've read the Council of State's advice in the meantime. Despite the differences of opinion on this issue, we have unanimously adopted the same proposal in committee and we will do it again here later, precisely because the Council of State does not believe that the retroactive effect can be achieved. Why are you trying to put that back in here? Would you like to walk a second and perhaps a third and fourth time against the wall? I would just like to point out that it was your party that started tabling amendments at second reading in order to make it more and more criminal, which means that we lost four weeks. The fact that employees are waiting for their money today, that they are disadvantaged and only get 70%, is partly your responsibility. It was already clear at that time that there was a problem with this retroactive effect, and yet your party has begun to make the proposal more and more criminal, so that the Council of State could indeed do nothing but send it back to committee with a destructive opinion. At that time, all the parties were able to see that we really could not go against that. After all, we had to create clarity for both employees and employers. So we did not actually approve this retroactive effect, which you will be presenting a third time later. All the parties have sought a solution, but this retroactivity, which you have just proposed for the third time, is indeed not a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u207	In the meantime, that has already been made clear. Can we assume that the debate has taken place? Mr Flahaut had ensured that Mrs Kitir, as the applicant, had the last word. I propose that the general discussion be concluded. The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u208	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1212/13) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1212/13) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u209	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u210	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Malik Ben Achour, Christophe Lacroix, Hugues Bayet, Mélissa Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u211	The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (517/ 8) The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (517/8) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr De Maegd, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u212	Mr President, we would like to see our text on the inclusion in the trade treaties of binding human rights, social and environmental criteria. If we come back with this text, rejected in committee by nine votes to eight, it is for a very simple reason: between 29 January (date of the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs) and today there has been a crisis of unprecedented magnitude since the Second World War. A crisis that has had its lot of questions, sometimes very deep questioning and reflections on a changing world, the world to come, the world that we really want for ourselves as for our children. These reflections are carried out at all levels in the public debate, but also at the heart of the institutions. They have, moreover, focused heavily on globalisation and on the rules that organise trade between Europe and the rest of the world. Thus, the European Commission wants to legislate as early as 2021 and oblige companies to respect human rights and the environment. In fact, it has provided for sanctions in case of a problem. Similarly, both the European Union's recovery plan and the Green Pact for Europe provide for a carbon adjustment mechanism at the Union's borders that will truly revolutionise trade. Finally, France and the Netherlands both want to strengthen the chapters on sustainable development in trade agreements. The Dutch Parliament recently voted on a motion against the agreements with Mercosur, as did the Austrian National Assembly last year and as proposed in the text rejected by the committee. The crisis has revealed our dependencies and weaknesses, especially in the most strategic industrial sectors in times of crisis. It has also shown how much globalization has made our economies giants at the feet of clay. You have to be able to measure it. We must be able to see how much we now need a system that does not subject our companies to unfair competition, that does not organise the deindustrialisation of our basins, that does not violently attack our social standards and jobs, that does not push our farmers into the abyss of uncertainty. We need a system that does not promote tax evasion, a system that does not contribute massively to climate change and respects the planet. Canada, Mercosur, Mexico: these agreements all raise questions, and there is a need for clear benchmarks as proposed in this text. For example, it is not acceptable that the ISDS clauses contained in these treaties could continue to threaten the measures taken by States to contain the epidemic or to support the economy. It is therefore time to take stock of European trade policy and to review it in depth. And, in line with the commitments made in the Paris Agreements, and also with the lessons of the crisis, industries and workers must be relocated and protected here in Europe, particularly in the strategic sectors of health care, food or even energy. In order for the world of tomorrow to be more just, more sustainable, more local today, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that you agree to reconsider the situation by referring this text back to the committee for a review in the light of the lessons we have all learned from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u213	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u214	- Mr. Peter De Mey, regular professor at the Faculty of Theology and Religious Sciences of the KULeuven
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u215	- Mr. Olivier Faelens, Director at Axcent
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u216	- Mr. Hendrik Pinxten, Emeritus Professor of the UGent
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u217	First term(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u218	Second term(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u219	Third term(F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u220	Fourth term(F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u221	First office(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u222	Second office(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u223	Third office(F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u224	Fourth office(F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u225	First term(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u226	Second term(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u227	Third term (F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u228	Fourth term(F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u229	First office(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u230	Second office(N)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u231	Third office(F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u232	Fourth office(F)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u233	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2020, I propose that you forward the presentation of the Council of Ministers and the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2020, I propose that the nomination of the Council of Ministers and the CVs of candidates be sent to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u234	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the appointment of the new members of the Boards of Directors of UNIA and MYRIA. The publication in the Moniteur belge will be communicated to the other assemblies. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2020, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the designation of the new members of the Boards of Directors of UNIA and MYRIA. The publication in the Belgian Official Journal will be communicated to the other assemblers. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u235	In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2020, I propose that the appointment of the effective members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday, 18 June 2020. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2020, I propose that the appointment of the effective members of the Management Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of 18 June 2020. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Members may vote from Friday 12 June 2020 until Thursday 18 June 2020 at 2 p.m. Their ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 1092/1 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 18 June 2020. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: Members may vote from Friday 12 June 2020 until Thursday 18 June 2020 at 2 p.m. Their ballot and the parliamentary document No. 1092/1 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 18 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u236	No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u237	The government called for urgency in accordance with rule 51 of the Regulations when introducing the Bill on Tax Provisions to promote the liquidity and solvency of businesses in the context of the fight against the economic consequences of the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 1309/1. The government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on tax provisions to promote the liquidity and solvency of undertakings in the context of combating the economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, No. 1309/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u238	I ask for urgency on behalf of the government on Mr De Croo's draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u239	I would also point out that the draft has actually been dealt with and approved in committee. It is therefore only a question of deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u240	It has indeed already been voted on in committee. Then why is the urgency still needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u241	For the deadlines of the report and so on. The urgency can always be invoked afterwards. It is a question of deadlines, which at that time are also due to expire.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u242	The bill will impact the financial year 2019. As has already been said, the deadlines are important. I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u243	Apart from Mrs Kitir's question, are there any objections? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can assume that the draft still has the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u244	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u245	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1303/1 increasing temporary unemployment benefits related to VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u246	Mr President, the first proposal for which we are calling for urgency concerns the temporary unemployment benefits linked to the VOCID-19, in order to consider a re-evaluation. Everyone will understand the urgency, since this text targets people who find themselves unemployed because of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u247	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u248	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution (Ms Eliane Tillieux, MM. Patrick Prévot, Hervé Rigot, Ahmed Laaouej and Jan Bertels) to guarantee the financial stability of hospitals following the crisis of VOCID-19, No. 1304/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u249	Mr President, as you know, we had a very interesting debate yesterday on provisional appropriations in the Committee on Finance, and the question of hospital financing was widely raised. Particular mention was made of the use of provisions. We wish to be able to open a substantive debate on this issue of hospital financing, in this particular period of the VOCID-19 which we know, and which has obviously worsened the financial situation of hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u250	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u251	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1322/1 amending the law of 21 March 2018 amending the law on police officers to regulate the use of cameras by police forces and amending the law of 21 March 2007 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras, the law of 30 November 1998 regulating the intelligence and security services and the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u252	Mr President, a major reform of the 2007 camera law was adopted in 2018. This amendment also changed the modalities of the obligation to report surveillance cameras. There is now a new centralised declaration system. However, a transitional period of two years was provided for in order to ensure that the persons who had already indicated their cameras to the previous declaration system were able to apply as a rule. This deadline started on 25 May 2018 and ended on 25 May 2020. Because of certain technical problems and additional difficulties, due to the various measures taken to combat the coronavirus, many of the parties involved have not been able to rule themselves out. Hence this proposal to extend the transitional period until 31 December 2021. Since the current deadline has already expired, the new transitional period should be introduced as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u253	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u254	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the bill to adjust the situation of certain categories of foreigners during the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 1327/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u255	Mr President, the enlarged Kern has taken a number of measures concerning the possibility of employing people who do not have residence status in our country. The aim is simply to be able to have a debate in Parliament on the administrative situation of these people. That is why we are asking for urgency. The Kern has taken some guidance. We must be able to accompany them legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u256	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u257	The urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 1332/1 of colleagues Metsu and Buysrogge to create more security in and around recreational areas and outdoor pools.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u258	Mr President, this motion for a resolution is about a structural solution to the nuisance caused by recreational areas and outdoor swimming pools for decades. It also emphasizes the phenomenon of wandering amokmakers who cause nuisance in Domain A in the morning, where they get a place ban, but do the same in Domain B in the afternoon. If that has been going on for decades, the demand for urgency may be a bit surprising, but I will ask them anyway because the corona crisis causes travel abroad to become uncertain. The phenomenon of staycations becomes the hip alternative and the recreational areas will certainly play an important role in this. They may and may receive more people than usual this summer. In fact, we should hope so. We hope, therefore, that by then we will have a solution for those travelling troublemakers. Hence the question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u259	I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u260	Mrs Fonck, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution No 1333/1 on compensation for the loss of hospital funding following the crisis in VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u261	Mr President, the subject was mentioned earlier, but I do not know whether it is the same content. It is a question of being able to compensate for the loss of funding for hospitals following the crisis of the VOCID-19 and above all to be able to ensure that there is a very urgent visibility of their financial reality and of the funds which, as a reminder, are present at the level of the INAMI and which can be granted to them. I don't know if you know today, but a number of hospitals are not able to pay their doctors given the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u262	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u263	Mr Piedboeuf, you are asking for the urgency of the bill amending Book XX of the Code of Economic Law, No. 1337/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u264	Mr President, Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 15 will end on 17 June. In particular, at the request of the presidents of the courts, the aim is to adjust the procedures for judicial reorganization by changing the time limits. It is important to be able to deal with this quickly enough for companies in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u265	You mention the Economic Code, the procedures are there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u266	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u267	On the question of the Council of State's opinion, I have to take a look at that with Mr Piedboeuf. Mr Piedboeuf, do you agree that the Council of State is being asked for an opinion since this is a fairly important proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u268	Mr President, there is no objection to this. I'm just saying it's really urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u269	One doesn't conflict with the other. Do I ask for the advice of the Council of State? [[Assent]] I do not think we can ask for the opinion within five days. Do you ask within five days? It is difficult to obtain an opinion from the Council of State within a period of five days in the case of legal proceedings. What I do want to do is to give to the Council of State that there is a certain urgency and insist that we receive the opinion at least within 30 days. Is that how I want to do it? [[Assent]] The last proposal is the proposal No. 1338/1 by Mr Ingels amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 with a view to institutionalising a global debriefing report. Who is asking for the floor to defend the urgency? Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u270	Mr President, it is part of my task as chairman of my group to take up that defence. The bill calls for a global debriefing report to be entered in the Civil Security Act and then sent to the Chamber of Representatives, which greatly improves our control function. Debriefing reports provide conclusions and recommendations after national crises with lessons for the future, so that the authorities concerned are better informed and armed in the event of a subsequent crisis. They are nothing new in themselves, but until today there is no obligation to always make them, and that must change for us. In the light of the current crisis, you felt it already coming. We are asking for urgency. We want to ensure that the corona crisis is also the subject of such a global debriefing report so that we can learn lessons for the future in due course. That could be useful to be better prepared for a next pandemic or a second wave of the corona crisis. Moreover, I think there are interesting examples of this in a number of neighbouring countries. Hence the question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u271	Thank you, Mr De Roover. I knew this was your task as leader of the group, but I could not put Mrs Ingels in an immediate position, for which I apologise. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the leaders of the political groups take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u272	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1219/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1219/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u273	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1072/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1072/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u274	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (769/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (769/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u275	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (899/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (899/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u276	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (849/7) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (849/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u277	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Frank Troosters to insert an Article 3/1(n). (814/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Frank Troasts to insert an article 3/1(n). (814/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Frank Troosters to Article 4. (814/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Frank Toventors on article 4. (814/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May I take a look at it? Was the previous vote also valid for this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u278	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u279	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 132 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (814/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (814/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u280	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1109/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1109/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u281	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1253/ 2004) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1253/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u282	Vote on Amendment No 25 by Sofie Merckx cs to insert a request 4/1(n). (1197/7) Vote on Amendment No 25 from Sofie Merckx cs to insert a request 4/1(n). (1197/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 33 Yes No. [[38]] No Abstentions 74 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u283	Vote on Amendment No 24 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a request 12(n). (1197/7) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a request 12(n). (1197/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u284	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u285	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will abstain in the vote on the next two motions for resolutions, even if they deal with an issue which is very close to my heart. My party and I will always work to prevent and combat intra-family violence. The many efforts of Minister Geens and Minister Muylle around Family Justice and the Care Centres after Sexual Violence prove that. However, the way in which the two proposals have been dealt with is a disgrace to us. We need to vote on a text rather quickly, while working together in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee on a widely supported text with clear recommendations, which are now being crossed over. I regret the fact that we have to vote here on texts which are linked in some respects. The texts have not been sufficiently tested, as no advice has even been sought from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, which draws up a plan on intra-family violence. Then people aren't doing well. To approve a text because no one dares to vote against it, we are not doing any service to the fight against intra-family violence, quite the contrary. We must avoid Parliamentary work that is non-binding or a measure for nothing. That is why we are abstaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u286	Thank you, Mrs Van Hoof. Are there no other explanations of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u287	Mr President, Mr Leen Dierick has been out for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u288	What am I supposed to understand under that? The equipment, let's say. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 62 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1197/ 81) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1197/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u289	Vote on Amendment No 15 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a request 7/1(n). (1236/8) Vote on Amendment No 15 from Sophie Rohonyi cs to insert a request 7/1(n). (1236/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 83 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u290	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 67 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 74 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. (1236/9) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution as amended. It will be notified to the government. (1236/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u291	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (252/9) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (252/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u292	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u293	In addition to my statement just now, I would like to say that the MR will abstain, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u294	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 107 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1252/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1252/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u295	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1212/14) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1212/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u296	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u297	Yes 80 Yes Non 63 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 517/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 517/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-11-55-plenair-ip044x.u298	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 18, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 June 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
