ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u2	Madam President, at the opening of this plenary session, I would like to inform colleagues that we have requested, in accordance with Rule 17 of our Rules of Procedure, an amendment to the agenda for next week's sitting to include the proposed law on IVG. You are aware that the opinions of the Council of State have come back to us. Since it was the plenary that had asked for them, it is logical that it should be the plenary that takes the matter in hand. In my view, the item will be discussed at the end of the meeting, in the form of a motion that we will develop. As the sequence follows quickly, I would like to encourage all progressive groups to reflect on the question of voting on this motion. Since motions have already been tabled, I am not going to invent words, but rather to repeat those - which are very relevant - of my colleague Ahmed Laaouej who told us in July (and I am on this subject): "Today we are going to have a truth vote. We will thus know if some of you have no ambiguity about this and if some of you – and I am thinking of you, Mr Piedboeuf, pointed out Mr Laaouej at the time – and in particular our colleagues in the Open VLD, since they explained – including in the media – that they had no problems on the substance of the case, will be able to commit here to the point being dealt with, if the opinion of the Council of State is given in due course. That's what I'm asking you." That is what my colleague Ahmed Laaouej said last July. In a way, I'm asking you the same thing today. No more, no less. The same motion was introduced. I count on that consistency. Seventy-six votes will be enough for us to have this item on the agenda for next week. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u3	We will have every opportunity to discuss this at the end of the agenda, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, our efforts are finally paying off. All indicators of the epidemic are down, except that the situation in hospitals remains critical. Caregivers, too, are literally exhausted. Despite this reality, many fellow citizens place a great deal of hope and expectations in the Concertation Committee that meets tomorrow. I am thinking in particular of traders who ask for a reopening as soon as possible, if not for 80% of them, it is the fear of bankruptcy. Otherwise, too, they will have to witness impotent images of Belgians who go to our neighbouring countries to shop there. There would be on the table of this Concertation Committee a concrete, reasonable track, which consists of reopening the shops but only by appointment. I invite you to support this proposal, Prime Minister, in any case if it obtains the green light of the experts. If we have a testing strategy today, but also a barometer, these tools will only be effective if the epidemiological situation is controlled, which is not yet the case. It is therefore necessary to provide the population with opportunities, while avoiding a third wave. I am thinking of the end-of-year celebrations, which will constitute a moment of high risk in terms of the spread of the virus, but also to vaccines. Today, we still don't know who will be able to get vaccinated, where and by whom. Nor do we know how these vaccines will be shipped and stored, and with what budget. Mr Prime Minister, can you tell us whether all Belgians, like the French, but also Germans, will be able to access a vaccine of the same quality by the end of December? If you still want them to act as a team, I think you owe them at least transparency. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, your government has decided, as soon as the vaccines are granted, to be vaccinated free of charge. That decision should be emphasized. It is an act of solidarity but also a demonstration of what health is seen as a good that must be accessible to all in our country. I am not part of the organizational arrangements here. That's your problem. It is a matter of logistics here and at European level. On the other hand, I will talk about the European and international levels. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, at the opening of the 75th General Assembly of the United Nations, said that the vaccine should be regarded as a public good, unpatented, accessible to all people in the world, thus confirming that health is a precious asset and that solidarity is a necessity to ensure that everyone can protect himself against this pandemic. There will probably also be discussions at European level. Meetings will be held shortly. I had the opportunity to talk to you about this during our last exchange in the Federal Committee for European Affairs. Prime Minister, the question is simple. What position are you going to defend in Europe at times, at this special council organised from 3 to 5 December at the United Nations level? We would indeed like our Government, and you in particular, to adhere to this solidarity supported by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u6	Prime Minister, many people are anxiously looking forward to tomorrow's press conference to announce the decisions of the Consultative Committee; many entrepreneurs are looking forward to that evaluation. Of course, evaluation of the existing measures is essential. The strict measures are effective, but the pressure on hospitals remains high. The pressure on care also remains high. We must remain attentive to this. At the same time, however, we must realise that it is a very difficult time for local traders. The water is on their lips. We all hear the poignant stories of self-employed people who are now drowning. The second closure period is really cutting in and they need perspective. Not only financially, but also mentally, it is very difficult. Our local merchants live for their cause; they work there with heart and soul. They are actually the glue in our society and provide the warmth that we all need. They carry their customers and staff at hand and their health is, of course, a priority for them. We can only admire how they have prepared themselves for the opening after the first closing period. They have shown an enormous sense of responsibility and, hopefully, the figures will allow for flexibility for the retail sector. No trader wants to endanger anyone, no trader wants to close his business for a third time. Therefore, clear guidelines are needed for the local middle classes and for the administrations. I am not just asking for attention to be paid to the call of entrepreneurs; I am also asking for the necessary attention to be paid to shopping in itself. We must prevent the shopping streets from being overwhelmed and we must do crowd control. It is very important that local authorities and entrepreneurs are clearly informed about the measures taken. Prime Minister, it is clear what concerns the merchants have. I hope you will take the questions of the local middlemen to the Consultation Committee. Will you use a clear framework for local authorities to ensure that new measures are taken in a safe manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, political and syndical short-sightedness and lack of flexibility in the labour market have caused us to bully all the big players of e-commerce abroad. We're paying for this now. Today our roads are flooded by thousands of vans from post.nl to bring products here and bring the profits back to the Netherlands. It is almost symptomatic of the policy that has been pursued in this area. Companies like bol.com and Zalando are becoming wealthy, while our own traders lose 100 million euros a day and have to keep their doors closed. All our neighbouring countries are opening their shops now. In some countries, such as the Netherlands and Germany, they were never even closed, while there were far fewer victims to regret than here. Belgium is a small country, Prime Minister. Wherever we live, if we drive up to an hour, we are abroad to shop. If we don't follow, shop tourism across the border is the final death sting for our shopkeepers. I hope, Prime Minister, that tomorrow you will decide that non-essential shops may also open their doors again. A full opening, Prime Minister, with the necessary security measures and bubbles, but certainly not just by appointment. Apart from Germany, all our neighbouring countries have more infections per hundred thousand inhabitants than Belgium. In several of these neighbouring countries, the catering industry is even given hope and perspective for Christmas and the end-of-year celebrations. In the Netherlands, for example, as early as mid-December, in Germany and Great Britain for Christmas Days. If you decide tomorrow that the shops can be opened again, when exactly will that be? Before Saint Nicholas, or on December 14th, as you said? Will you also offer some perspective to the catering industry and to the event sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, we have imposed heavy measures on the people, and that was necessary, but they also make themselves felt at the mental level. The end of the year parties are coming into view. It goes without saying that if we take tough measures, we must also offer people a perspective so that they can maintain them. Too far-reaching measures for the end-of-year parties risk being difficult to control and enforce. My first question is then what is the situation with regard to enforcement, because some unclear signals have been given. Can one invade houses? What are the possibilities? It is important that an answer is given. Secondly, given the difficult enforcement and the mental desire to see friends and family members on those days, too much stringency might lead to massive circumvention of the measures. That can't be the intention. What perspective can you offer? It is also the period of bargains. People want to buy gifts, perhaps more than usual now, to express their attachment to family members. The e-commerce runs like a train and especially like a truck on our roads. To what extent will you be able to offer perspective there? Mrs Houtmeyers already asked a question weeks ago about shopping by appointment and with customer counters in larger cases. There is no doubt that there are safe ways to ensure that good health measures take account of the business and, above all, the mental aspect of many small and medium-sized enterprises. Can you give them a perspective tomorrow on a little more pleasant holidays anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u9	Prime Minister, in view of the importance of the subject, we have agreed that you may exceed the speaking time traditionally allocated to you, that is to say five minutes, and allow you at least eight minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Our country is still in covid phase 4 today. That's the highest level. This means that we are still deeply in the red with many indicators and, above all, with the sanitary indicators. We can see that the number of infections is dropping. It is important to point this out. We also see that the number of hospitalizations is falling. This shows that the measures, but above all the collective effort of the 11 million Belgians, whom I sometimes call team Belgium, are having an effect. A few weeks ago, unfortunately, we were at the top of the European map. That wasn't an enviable position. Today, we are in the middle of something, thanks to the collective adaptation of our behaviour. However, there is a big but. There's absolutely no reason to go into careless behavior right now. There's still a long way to go. We have to face that. There's still a lot of lights on red. First, we see that the occupancy rate in our hospitals and certainly in intensive care remains very high. The pressure in our hospitals is very high. The nursing staff is really out of breath and we know that the trajectory is going to be quite long. We see that the number of contaminations is decreasing. That is true, but it remains well beyond a threshold that would allow us to manage the situation in the medium and long term. Today we are well beyond this threshold. We also see that the positivity rate is now 14%. This means that of all the tests performed, 14% are positive, while all the specialists say that this positivity rate should fall to about 3% to be in a situation where the crisis could be better managed. Let me be clear, the road will be long. That sounds harsh, but unfortunately the reality is very harsh. Actually, we have one certainty. If we make the wrong decisions tomorrow, we will bear the consequences the day after tomorrow. Then we'll see that in the next few weeks, people die who shouldn't have died. Making the wrong decisions tomorrow could have dramatic consequences. I have listened carefully to the questions. Of course we are not blind to the fact that this is a particularly difficult period. This is a very difficult period for all of us. For our middle class, for our SMEs, it is particularly difficult for our traders to be forced to close their activities in the end of the year. But the last thing we want is to see the consequences of the efforts we have all made together in the last month and a half disappear in a few weeks because of a policy that would be unthinking. I hope that in our country, as in other countries, we have learned lessons from what we have seen in recent months. Unthought-out decisions can have very serious consequences. For the agenda of the Consultative Committee tomorrow, in my view, there are two major issues that need to be discussed. Firstly, an evaluation of the closure of non-essential shops. That was the deal, by the way. When we took the decision to close in October, we said that we would make an evaluation of it at the end of November. I notice a great deal of willingness from our merchants, from our shopkeepers to ensure the safety of everyone. That is a good thing. I can tell by everyone that safety is paramount. It will be an assignment for many, an assignment for the shopkeepers, but also an assignment for our local authorities to ensure that when there is an opening that can take place in a responsible and secure way. That will require a lot of organizational talent from the shopkeepers, but also from the local authorities. That is why we have been in close contact with our governors for a few days to see how the opening could take place. It will require a great deal of responsibility from all of us. Also from those who would go to the store, will ask the sense of responsibility. Let's be clear, safety is paramount. I am glad to hear that our merchants are also pushing security forward as a key point. The second issue on the agenda of tomorrow's consultation committee is the long-term approach. I think we need to realize that the winter months will be difficult. We all know that the winter season is more conducive to the spread of the virus. We're more inside and it's inside that the virus spreads most easily. So we need a navigation instrument to spend this winter period of a few months. This instrument must help us to establish maximum thresholds to respect and continue to develop a testing, tracing, etc. strategy. This instrument must be simple and fast. Mrs Rohonyi asked a specific question about vaccines. As you said, the vaccines will begin to be delivered at the end of December. Belgium has already secured at least 26 million doses today. In some cases, the dose should be injected twice. I think it is clear that there will be enough vaccines for all Belgians. Nevertheless, immunizing 11 million Belgians requires a certain period of production and vaccination. It's obvious. The message should not be conveyed that in December and the following weeks, the entire population will be vaccinated. This will not be the case, it will take several months, as in other European countries. I am consciously talking about the coming winter months. I understand that some people like to talk about the end-of-year parties because that is a concern that we all share, but the perspective that we have to take is that of the winter months. I wouldn't want us to lose the progress of the last four weeks for four days. We must not let the progress that has been made slip through our fingers. The corona study of the University of Ghent shows that the vast majority of Belgians understand that we will celebrate this Christmas period in a different way than the previous years. Christmas will look different. It'll be more intimate and with fewer people. Let us also remember that thousands of families will have an empty chair during this Christmas period, the empty chair of a person we had to lose in the past few months. I would very much like to see if we celebrate Christmas next year there will not be any more families unnecessarily empty seats because we will not be able to do what is necessary in the next few weeks. Let us take a long-term perspective and understand that this Christmas period will potentially be a particularly dangerous period. Let us make sure that next Christmas there is no more grief than there is already in thousands of families today. It will have to be more small-scale and more careful. Please let us show our solidarity because the Christmas period is a period of security and solidarity. We have to make the right decisions and I have the impression that all Belgians together understand that very well. Mr Flahaut, your question is important. As you said, we are making the vaccine available to everyone in Europe. In Belgium, it is made available free of charge. We do it because we think it's important for everyone to be vaccinated. I think it also applies to the rest of the world. It is clear that no one will be safe unless everyone is safe. And this does not apply only in Europe. This applies to the whole world at some point in time. We will examine, at European and international level, the measures necessary to ensure that everyone throughout the world has the opportunity to be vaccinated, also in countries with far less means and far less purchasing power than here. Belgium has always played a pioneering role in this field and will continue to do so. We will take the necessary steps to ensure that the hope that we Belgians place so much in this vaccine is shared by all in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers, at least for the answers I have been able to get. As far as vaccines are concerned, I hope that all Belgians will have access to them. My question was whether all Belgians would have access to a vaccine of the same quality. Indeed, we hear about vaccines with an efficacy rate of 70%, and others with a rate of 95%. How are we going to sort among these vaccines and among the target audiences? That was really the subject of my question. All Belgians are legitimately asking the question today. As far as businesses are concerned, I can understand. Thank you for this call for prudence. Nevertheless, as you said, traders themselves are aware of their responsibility today, of the role they can play and of the alternatives to be offered. I still hope that tomorrow you can explore the tracks that are on the table. Among the tools that are at our disposal, there is an application, Coronalert. It's not used enough. I hope that tomorrow you will call again, so that this application will be properly downloaded by those who have not yet done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u12	Prime Minister, thank you for your encouraging response. Indeed, it reflects your commitment, as well as that of our Government and Belgium as a whole, to international solidarity. As you said, it is not enough in our country to guarantee access to care or vaccine. It is also important to ensure that everyone, wherever he or she is and whatever the means at his or her disposal, can effectively be protected from this pandemic that is affecting us all and all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u13	Prime Minister, we must, of course, show a sense of responsibility. A mass of Christmas shoppers, an overcrowded Meir, a full Nieuwstraat, must be avoided at all times. This is not only the task of politics and businessmen, but also of all local authorities and of all shoppers. I'm looking forward to tomorrow with many traders. If the figures allow it, I am sure that shop owners and staff will do everything in their power to ensure that the reopening process is as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u14	Mr. Dedecker, you normally have to wear your mouth mask. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u15	I find it a little painful that we, who make EUR 7 000 net per month, others say that they should keep their heads above water. There are no non-essential shops. Each store is essential for the person who makes his living with it. It is painful that I have had to read today that organs such as Celeval and the GEES have never said in the past that the shops had to close and that it was a purely political decision. It is now a few months later and hopefully tomorrow, outside the RAG, we will have the courage, as politicians, to give people hope and ensure that the shops are reopened. The people are indeed responsible, but they will not act crazy and they will respect the bubbles. However, please allow everyone to earn their living. It's very easy for us. We must have our income. I won't repeat the amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u16	Prime Minister, you have been given ample time and taken even wider to answer. Nevertheless, you have not been able to say a word about what the legal basis is and what the possibilities are. Do people have to expect a visit from the police during their Christmas meal? What are the possibilities? You have not given any answers to these questions to either the local authorities or the population. In addition, I would like to point out that you should not make any wrong decisions. However, please distinguish between effective measures and effective measures. The question is whether we really need to punish shopkeepers and traders, who have made a great deal of efforts, including in the financial field, to make safe shopping possible by appointment or with customer numbers, because we do not take these efforts into account. That would be a wrong signal. Please give them the perspective they deserve tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u17	Madam President, Prime Minister, the policy letters of the wealthy government are being discussed in Parliament. Despite the fact that respect was one of the key words of your government statement, none of the government members submitted the policy letter in good time. However, this additional preparation time was clearly not used to align the policy letters. On the contrary, the contradictions and disagreements between the government parties became painfully apparent. Ecolo, in particular, was getting along well. First of all, the Khattabi carbon tax was announced, which your party could only laugh at very green. Afterwards, Minister Gilkinet reported that he would like to introduce a free train ticket at the expense of the taxpayer, but your party is not a fan either. In the meantime, Ecolo also stated that he would like to re-examine the abortion proposal in Parliament, because after the Council of State's opinions on the latest series of amendments have been received, Ecolo no longer sees any obstacle to further parliamentary treatment, to the great joy of coalition partner CD&V. In the Defence Committee it was bumblebee between CD&V and sp.a about NATO. The Constitutional Commission removes all the delay manoeuvres in order not to have to vote on the proposal on the correction of the terrorism process because the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people are directly opposed to each other. And while your ministers responsible for institutional reform write that the knowledge of the national language is so important, you have a Secretary of State who, when presenting the policy letter, completely fails in his Dutch and even a Secretary of State who brings the policy letter all the way into French, including monolingual French-speaking deaf interpreter, et pour les Flamands la même chose. So much for the respect from your policy statement. Prime Minister, you haven't been working for two months. How will you keep this up for three and a half years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Pas, you like to deal with political politicians. I understand that, but I prefer to look at the policy. When I look at the policy, I see that there is more unity in our country today, for example in the way we tackle the covid crisis. I see more unity of command, something that so many of our countrymen have asked for. I see, above all, more unity in our country, where Flemings and French speakers are united and pull on the same leash to tackle together the biggest crisis we have faced since the Second World War. I see a country where the federal level is getting along well with the prime ministers, because we understand that working with other governments is the only way we can achieve results at a difficult time. What I see today is a normal political debate, not a standstill. That standstill is something you like to be the initiator of. A normal political debate, that is what happens in a country where there is a government working together and a government working in solidarity with everyone in our country. You tend to divide everything up. This government has made an effort to work together, to bring people together at a difficult time. I am not afraid of a substantive debate and the coalition agreement is the basis for this. Last week, in the debate on the key step, we made it clear that the coalition agreement is very clear and that everyone knows very well how we should stick to it. On ethical issues, too, the coalition agreement is very clear. It says that everyone is committed to reaching consensus on ethical issues within the majority parties before taking parliamentary initiatives. That is very clear. That is the way these parties will work together, that is the way in which this government will work together. I understand this bothers you. A country where people work together, that's something that bothers you. You prefer a country that stands still, a country where there are drawn knives against each other. We have made a different choice, we have made a choice to work together and I understand that it is not pleasant for you to discover that we can work together in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, you have given me the wrong idea. I don't want a stop at all. I just want a country where people do what the voters ask. That's the problem. You're referring to the coalition agreement. However, that agreement is full of woolly generalities, ambiguity and contradictions. With that agreement, you can go either way. The coalition agreement really won't hold seven parties together. You're talking about unity. The only thing that binds the current government are actually two things. You have already referred to the first. That's corona. The corona crisis is currently creating some unity. The second thing that keeps the current government together and creates some bond is the fear of the electorate, precisely because you are not doing what the electorate asked you to do in 2019. If you manage to keep the current bickering cabinet together until the end of the legislature, you will have a great successful career as a relationship therapist after your political life, if you do not have a European job by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u20	Minister, I am asking you today because something very serious happened in our country on Monday. The president of the FGTB and 16 other trade unionists were sentenced to imprisonment on the grounds that they were attending social action in the context of a general strike. Here's the context. They were convicted on the basis of article 406 of the Criminal Code for malicious obstruction of movement. However, this article is not intended to apply to a social conflict. At the time of his vote, the legislator had guaranteed that the same article would never be used to infringe the right to strike. What do we see now? He's being hijacked to condemn trade unionists. This isn't the first time. Indeed, it was already used to condemn the president of the FGTB in Antwerp, also about a general strike. I would point out that these social movements are aimed at defending the rights of citizens and workers and that it is through them that they have pushed back the previous government on the issue of point pensions. Above all, this condemnation comes in a context where trade union rights are increasingly being attacked. One can thus speak of the law approved under the previous government, which wanted to impose the minimum service in prisons or all the attempts of the right to impose legal personality on trade unions. Minister, my question is very clear. Are you going to take legal initiatives to review article 406 of the Criminal Code, so that it will never again be used to attack the right to strike in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u21	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a trade union delegate, it is a man or a woman who has chosen to be with the workers in defending their rights, in expressing their legitimate demands for a protective labour right, for a fair wage, but also when an accident at work occurs, when they are struck by an occupational disease. This is a trade union delegate! Of course, when the court decides to condemn to prison, albeit suspended, trade union delegates in the exercise of their trade union function, the defence of workers' rights, the emolument is general in the world of work. Of course, we are the legislator and it is not up to us, in the context of the separation of powers, to criticize a court decision. But precisely, as legislators, we remember that we have ratified a Council of Europe convention that incorporates in our law the European Social Charter which gives an international European foundation to the right to strike. As legislator, we take precisely into account the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, which also provides a basis for the right to strike. Today, the question is great! Will these trade union delegates still be able to defend social justice, the fundamental and fundamental rights of workers, while there is a justice that considers that there can be a vicious hindrance to the right to strike? Minister, I know that you are the Minister of Labour, but I also know that you are the Minister of Social Concertation and, as such, we need to know what your roadmap will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u22	Mr Laaouej, Mr Boukili, I thank you for your questions, which allow me to address two subjects that are of particular interest to me: the right to strike and social consultation. Like you, Mr. Laaouej, it is my principle never to criticize a court decision. I never did. I won't do it today. I won't do it tomorrow. The separation of powers is, in fact, one of the essential pillars of our rule of law and fundamental to our democracy, as is the social consultation that you are referring to, Mr Laaouej. Your fears about respect for it are also mine. It is for this reason that, as Minister of the Economy and as Minister of Labour, I am there and will be particularly attentive to it. It's a top priority for me. The Belgian social model is indeed based on this social consultation, which guarantees social peace through dialogue between the social partners. Secondly, with regard to the right to strike, Mr Boukili, Mr Laaouej, this is indeed an essential right, a right recognised at all levels at Belgian, European or international level. It is a right that is part of our social conquerors, as Ambroise Croizat, Minister of Labour of the French Republic, would have said and at the initiative of a whole series of social conquerors and their integration into French positive law. You will have, each and every one of you, read the government agreement. In this agreement, you will find nothing that challenges this fundamental right for workers. At the same time, let us agree that every day of strike is first and foremost a record of failure! No one strikes for pleasure. No worker, no worker strikes for pleasure. When he strikes, when he strikes, he or she loses part of his or her remuneration. For me, it is also essential that the right to demonstrate be respected. This right is essential in order to guarantee the counter-powers embodied by the trade unions but also by the associations, the voluntary world or by every citizen of this country. They must be able to object to political decisions, whether they are made by others or whether they are decisions that I might have to make. I will pay particular attention to this. This right must apply to everyone under any circumstances. I am convinced that the best way to guarantee social peace, which is essential - and it is absolutely necessary, in general, but even more so today, in the difficult and troubled times that we know and are going through - the best way to guarantee this social peace is to nourish, sustain and encourage and respect social dialogue. I will be there, ladies and gentlemen, particularly attentive, both in my capacity as Minister of Economy and Minister of Labour, but also in my capacity as Deputy Prime Minister of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u23	Minister, I heard you defend the right to strike and say that the strike is a failure. The strike is above all the resistance of the world of work against anti-social attacks by governments. First of all, the strike! It's resistance. Today, this resistance is being attacked. It is to prevent workers from resisting the various attacks of governments. Minister, where are we going to put the limit? Because the problem here is Article 406. And about that, you didn't answer. Are you going to question him? Are you going to see him again, or not? There's the problem. Otherwise, where would the limit be? Young people fighting for the climate are obstructing traffic. Strikes against index jumps are a hindrance to traffic. Our social history is made up of obstacles to movement. That is how we acquired our rights. Today, are these barriers going to be part of our social history as it has always been or are they going to be part of our judicial history? There's the problem, minister, and you don't answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u24	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. They are clear. You recall that in this government agreement there is the rehabilitation of social consultation as a modus operandi, social dialogue as the vehicle par excellence of reconciliation between, on the one hand, certain economic interests and, on the other hand, workers' rights. And when workers' rights must prevail, they will prevail! That is the message you sent us. At the same time, who in this Parliament can believe that workers are forced to strike for pleasure? No one strikes for pleasure! That is why this right, which is guaranteed by legal texts, but which must also be able to live through social consultation and social dialogue, I am pleased, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, to see that you will be the guarantor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u25	Madam Secretary, for four years, VUB Professor Djalali has been held in bad conditions in Iran. He was sentenced to death without a fair trial. This week we were told that his execution, a terrible, gross violation of human rights, would soon be carried out. Anyone can see what Iran is trying to achieve here, no one here is naive. At a time when we are here in Belgium starting a trial against four Iranians who were planning a terrorist attack, people who have a link with Belgium are apparently not sure of their lives in Iran. Iran is trying to force us to choose: we may lose the lives of an innocent man if we protect our own rule of law, or we lose the opportunity to judge criminals in our own country. It is a choice that we as a country do not want to make but should not. Iran is also using the death penalty as a means of bartering. It is a good thing that in Belgium it is impossible at all to rob innocent people of their lives as a rule of law. Madam Secretary, this battle with Iran is impossible to win if we are to wage it alone. We must speak with Sweden, France and as many European Member States as possible with one voice. Only that will impress. Otherwise, we are not talking about one human life, but many more will follow. Madam Secretary, will Belgium participate in exchange deals on prisoners, which is apparently Iran's intention? Will you raise the matter with other European Member States and with Mr Borrell?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u26	Madam Minister, time is short: everything points out that the Iranian-Swedish emergency physician Ahmadreza Djalali, who is also a visiting teacher at the VUB, will soon be executed. Djalali has been behind bars in an Iranian cell since 2016 after an absolute sham process. We're running out of time. With every second ticking away, it looks worse: his life hangs by a thread. It is a matter of days and we all know how ruthless the Iranian regime can be. We call for all possible means to put pressure on Iran. Call on the Iranian ambassador and make it clear that this will have an impact on relations with our country. Together with Sweden, raise a human rights front in Europe to convey that same message to Iran. The world needs countries on the barricades at a time when human rights are being compromised. I would like to say to the Iranian embassy in Brussels, a little further, that we will not give up. Parliament is united. Our country is fundamentally opposed to the death penalty. If you continue with this, the damage will be great for your country. After Donald Trump, the world is ready to engage again in dialogue with Iran, but if Iran continues with this execution, it will throw that door shut with a blow. Djalali is a respected scientist with strong ties with Belgium. He's a man of flesh and blood, he's a husband, he's a father of two young children. Don't take his future away from him. Nor is it a commodity that can be traded. Ahmadreza Djalali deserves a future, Ahmadreza Djalali deserves freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u27	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, as you had the opportunity to tell us yesterday afternoon in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, one of the foundations of our foreign policy is and remains the defence of human rights. That is why we must now try everything, bilaterally or in consultation with other partner countries and international institutions, to get the Iranian authorities not to execute the death penalty in Iran against Mr. Jalali. Madam Minister, do you have any contacts today with our Belgian Ambassador to Iran and with the Iranian Ambassador to Brussels to know exactly what Mr Jalali is doing and, according to worrying indications, how he is preparing for his execution? Have you been able to pass a clemency message on to the Iranian authorities? Can we join Swedish efforts to defend a common position? Do you think that a more offensive initiative by the European Union can have a positive impact on this issue? Why not consider strong pressure through our INSTEX trade agreement with Tehran? In the past, many actions of our diplomacy have already been taken in early 2018, when the Iranian Supreme Court confirmed his sentence. Unfortunately, your predecessor, Didier Reynders, can testify, our efforts were not successful. But don't let that happen! These efforts must continue. No step, no announcement, no pressure to save a man from the death penalty should be judged vain. Finally, Madam Minister, if we speak today of the dramatic situation of Mr. Djalali, we must remain vigilant on all other death sentences handed down after a trial, whether fair or not. What steps will you take to continue this fight against the death penalty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u28	Madam President, Madam Minister, everything points towards the imminent execution of Dr Djalali, guest professor at the VUB. I was in the Ayatollah prison myself once, without any hope. So, unfortunately, I know how horrible this is. I'm lucky I got out. Unfortunately, the many international efforts for the release of Djalali were never successful. It does not seem so coincidental that a trial is just beginning in Antwerp, a trial against three terrorists, an Iranian diplomat who, two years ago on behalf of the Iranian regime, wanted to commit a horrific attack on a meeting in Paris of thousands of Iranian dissidents. There would be a proposal from the Iranian authorities to exchange one of the arrested terrorists, Asadollah Assadi, an Iranian diplomat, with the professor sentenced to death, who has been held hostage for years. We must make it clear to Tehran that we cannot tolerate an Iranian diplomat planning a terrorist attack on our territory, just as IS does, and that we cannot tolerate being threatened because we want to try these terrorists. It is up to the government to move up a gear and speak harsh language and to do everything possible to avoid this execution. Madam Secretary, what are you going to do in concrete terms to convince the Iranian authorities to stop the execution of Professor Djalali and withdraw the death penalty against the man?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people, the day before yesterday my services received disturbing reports about Iranian-Swedish doctor Ahmadreza Djalali. It's not the first time there's been reports of an imminent execution. For the first time, however, concrete steps were taken to prepare for the execution of the death penalty. The former visiting professor of Ramp Medicine at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel would have been transferred to another section of the Evin Prison. This is very disturbing for the family and our country. I am, of course, thinking of Dr. Djalali and his family, who are in a particularly difficult situation. And I would like to assure them that we are obviously following the situation closely. After his arrest, Belgium called for a proper course of justice to give him a fair trial. Following his conviction, several contacts and pleas were made at Belgian level to avoid the execution of Mr Djalali. For example, former Prime Minister Michel had sent a letter on this matter to Iranian President Rohani. Mr Michel also raised the fate of Mr Djalali in the margins of the UN meeting in New York in September 2018. Former Health Minister Mrs De Block has also sent a letter to her Iranian counterpart. In addition, Belgium, in virtually all bilateral contacts, reiterated our basic attitude to the death penalty and argued against its implementation for Mr Djalali. When there were reports of his poor health, we specifically argued to give him the necessary medical care. Mr. Djalali's family resided in Sweden and Mr. Djalali had Swedish nationality. That is why Foreign Minister Ann Linde urged our Iranian counterpart, Mr Zarif, not to apply the death penalty in a telephone call made the day before yesterday. Minister Ann Linde also communicated publicly about this, and my office immediately contacted the Swedish Ambassador to Belgium. It is clear that I support my Swedish colleague in this humanitarian appeal. Belgium opposes the death penalty in principle. The European Union and its Member States are opposed to the death penalty in all its forms. We therefore call on the EU to send a clear message to the Iranian authorities. Yesterday we called the Iranian ambassador and repeated our call not to execute Dr Djalali's death penalty. My services are following suit. Our ambassador in Tehran received Mr Djalali's sister and lawyer for a meeting this afternoon. That conversation indeed shows that the situation is serious. The fear of an imminent execution is real and well founded, according to the sister and lawyer. As you can see, Mr. Djalali's fate concerns us all and is the subject of many speeches on our part. The press talks about the link between Dr.Jalali's fate and the trial of an Iranian diplomat in our country, who is suspected of being involved in the preparation of an attack near Paris in 2018. This trial will indeed begin tomorrow and I would like to recall, without any form of nuance, and in a very clear way, that Belgium is a state governed by the rule of law. The principle of separation of powers is essential; the judiciary must be able to do its work independently and without any external influence. That is what is happening in Belgium, and that is what will continue to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply, from which I understand that the government is working on the matter. I would also like to thank you very much for the strong signal you have just given, especially in connection with our rule of law. We cannot and must not allow gross violations of human rights. The death penalty is also unacceptable to my party. I call on you to increase the pressure on Iran together with as many countries as possible and to speak with one voice. As my fellow questioners also pointed out, time is running out. We talk about hours and days, not weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply in which you confirm the disturbing news, which is bad news. At the same time, you make it clear that you have already taken action. You're not sitting still. Parliament will not sit still either. We are working on a resolution, which we will table with different democratic parties over majority and opposition, if it is up to me. After all, Parliament must be united and take rapid action in this respect, following on from the many actions already being carried out by civil society, such as the VUB and Amnesty International, and of course by your cabinet. At the level of the United Nations, a number of comments have already been made on the matter. Yesterday I sent a letter with my colleague Samuel Cogolati to the Iranian ambassador asking for an urgent meeting. I call on all Members and all groups to do the same. As much weight as possible, after all, is important and can really make a difference. Ahmad Djalali is an innocent man who deserves a future. We must do everything we can to give him that future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u32	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your response and your efforts. Professor Djalali is a high-ranking physician well known to us, since he lectured at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. It was in 2016, during a professional trip to Iran, that he was arrested, accused of espionage and then sentenced to death in a perfectly unfair trial. His lawyer could not see him until seven months after his arrest, and confessions were extracted from him under torture. If we want to be at peace with our conscience, we must relentlessly pursue our strongest pressure, with Sweden and Europe, towards the Iranian regime, and do everything possible to avoid the inevitable. In 2019, Iran executed at least 251 people. After China, it is the country that executes the most condemned in the world, in front of Saudi Arabia. Acting to reverse this trend is not in vain but, for Professor Djalali, it is less one. An Iranian proverb says: "When the opportunity presents itself, patience is no longer necessary." Let us take this proverb at the foot of the letter! It is his life and, I repeat, our conscience!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u33	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Professor Djalali is innocent. He's waiting for us. We really need to stand up for him, or it's too late. Conversations, calls, unfortunately, aren't enough. They do not understand our language, so we must make it clear: it will have serious consequences if Professor Djalali is executed. We must act now, otherwise it will be too late. I'm glad you're saying about the trial against those Iranian terrorists that it's just gonna happen. Yesterday, three Iranian terrorists came from Thailand in exchange for an Australian citizen who is now allowed to return to Australia. Dr. Djalali has the exact same story. He's innocent. We have to save him. It is up to us to really make it clear that the consequences will be tough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u34	Mr. Secretary, here we are, but with all due respect, I have no question for you. I have a question for the Prime Minister, but he has chosen to walk and is already safely back in his cabinet, far away from those annoying Members of Parliament with their difficult questions. I know your opinion on the Brussels city toll. You are in favour, and that is normal, because you are an Ecolo Minister; I also respect your opinion. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with Mrs Van den Brandt, who says she will go for a unilateral introduction of that levy. However, he has walked and does not want to answer. Flanders and Wallonia are clear. Those governments say that there can be no one-sided introduction of the city toll and are on the brakes. What is the Brussels-Capital Region doing, with Mrs Van den Brandt at the wheel and with Sven Gatz at Open Vld? They're throbbing. Gatz is throbbing. Gatz says he will release funds in the budget for the technical roll-out of the city toll. Gatz says he is not convinced at all of the fact that we have to go in consultation and Gatz says he can defend that story. That has the advantage of clarity. Flanders and Wallonia say no, that will not pass, while Brussels says yes. So I think it is legitimate to ask the Prime Minister how he sees it. If a decision is taken with such a large impact on the two largest regions in this country and on so many citizens, then it is legitimate to ask the Prime Minister's opinion. There may be a conflict of interest and the way to the Consultation Committee will be open. Minister, I would ask you to take my question to the Prime Minister. I'm sure you'll see him this week. Does he agree with Mrs Van den Brandt that it should be possible to introduce the city toll unilaterally in the end or not? I would also ask you to send me his answer immediately. I'm really looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u35	Madam President, Mr Raskin, on 15 October I answered your question in plenary, but I certainly understand your impatience. The situation hasn't changed since then. I am still not a member of the Brussels Government. I still understand the Brussels Government's desire to reduce the number of cars in Brussels, because there are too many cars in the streets of Brussels, and this has a lot of negative consequences, such as congestion, which costs billions of euros to workers and employers, CO2 emissions, which we want to reduce because of the serious impact on the climate, and also fine particles, which are responsible for the deaths of thousands of Belgians every year. Like you, I know that the Brussels Government, especially Minister Sven Gatz, is currently working on a smart mileage tax. This is not a secret, but a public one and is part of the agreement of the Brussels Government. I continue to ask that all governments, including our federal government, be consulted on this project, but neither I nor the government have received a formal proposal on this matter from the Brussels Government, which is not yet ready. That is why I think we should have the courtesy and also the wisdom and intelligence to await the proposals of the Brussels Government. Only then will we be able to express an opinion, to give a negative or positive opinion and possibly to propose an amendment to the Brussels text. It's just a matter of days or weeks. When things are done, the text may be brought to the Conciliation Committee between the Federal Government and the Länder, but that is not until today or tomorrow. As Minister of Mobility, as you know, I have been working for seven weeks, together with the rest of the government, to offer mobility alternatives to travellers, whether they come from Flanders, the Kempen, Wallonia or Brussels. More trains, more often, earlier in the morning and later in the evening, with better links to other means of transport, coordinated fares and timetables, that is the government project, that is my project as Minister of Mobility and I am working very hard on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u36	I would ask you, Minister, to pay attention to your speaking time on another occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u37	Minister, you have already given me the same answer, and that is why I did not summon you here, but I did call the Prime Minister. I have not received a specific answer to my specific questions, but the fact that the Prime Minister is afraid to answer here today makes me think the worst. We have seen over the past few months and weeks that when the green Ecolotail with the dog wags Open Vld humbly bends the head and takes the next load. After the impact tax and the carbon tax, the city toll will be taken tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry but the Prime Minister has just missed the opportunity to prove otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u38	Madam President, Minister, I apologise for this short waiting time, to address together an extremely serious subject. A few days ago, the government was willing to untie the purse cords and grant nearly 200 million euros as a bonus for health-care workers, especially those working in hospitals. It's about time. It was expected. It was an extremely valuable sign of gratitude. This premium can, for someone who has worked full time on the front line for several months, reach 985 euros gross. However, the rejoicing was short-lived. We are learning today that this premium is not defied. There will therefore be a tax levy on these amounts, so that in the end they will only remain in their pockets a little more than half of that amount. What a cold shower! Caregivers really feel that the government is taking back what it has given to each other with one hand. Then imagine the offense felt. For several days now, the CDH, through my colleague Catherine Fonck, and today myself, we have been asking the government, through you, Mr.Minister, to consider the defiscalization of this bonus, not only for the federal government, but also for the bonuses that could be awarded by the Regions. We already regret that home-based nurses were not considered for this bonus. The Flemish Region has already granted a bonus. We hope that this will also be the case in Brussels and Wallonia. But please, don't go punctuating them, through tax mechanisms, what they deserve from their field work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u39	Mr Prévot, thank you for your question. As you said, the hospital sector is facing an exceptional increase in the number of patients to be treated and is under pressure. As a result, the government has recently decided to use exceptional measures and resources to provide more staff for our hospitals and to relieve caregivers, essential to managing care for VOCID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients, and to value its members for the efforts already made. To this end, the Government has decided, among other things, the following financial compensations for caregivers. First, the solidarity bonus. It is exempt from ONSS contributions and taxes and amounts to EUR 300. It covers all federal sectors, including home nursing. There is also the incentive bonus. That's the bonus you're referring to. For this premium, a budget of EUR 200 million has been released within the government. It was also decided to reserve it for hospital employees. This premium amounts to 985 euros. It is true that this incentive premium is a gross and non-net premium. This decision was taken by mutual agreement within the government, with the agreement of the trade unions. A memorandum of understanding was concluded to that end. He was deliberately chosen for a gross premium. After all, we must ensure that there is no discrimination against other employees and other sectors, who continued to work during the first and second confinement periods. This way of working ensures that the premium is legally unattainable. The home-based nursing sector has obtained an agreement to also benefit its members. Discussions are still under way for independent home nurses; the government is considering how to implement them in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u40	Minister, thank you for your clarification. What a strange logic that the government followed! I can hear the legal argument. However, instead of restricting the amount that caregivers can receive, try to extend the benefit of such premiums to additional sectors. We almost feel that we are witnessing a sign of guilt on the part of the government, as if we were not going to have to help caregivers too much, compared to other professions. Other sectors would certainly deserve to be helped as well. Caregivers have paid a heavy price, have become heavily involved and persevere over and over again in this regard. It is therefore normal for him to be the first beneficiary of these measures. It is as much so that it is not the only one in this case and that other actors can therefore be helped. Mr Minister, I remember that in the first wave, by a law of 29 May last in its Article 6, we planned to be able to exempt tax relief from certain aid granted by the federated entities. There is no reason why what was possible during the first wave should no longer be possible during the second wave. For this reason, I urge you to revise your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u41	Madam President, Minister, trainers or referees in amateur football, conductors in a youth choir or marching band and school escorts are all going to be in trouble soon, as are the associations that do association work. After 31 December 2020, no association work can be done because the Constitutional Court has destroyed the law on non-taxable income. However, our association work deserves all the respect and support. The associations ensure that people are connected. The coalition agreement also promised a solution to this problem. However, we must ensure that this is a good, sustainable solution. That's how people know what they're up to. Nor should we develop a regulation which will soon be re-destructed by the Constitutional Court. The CD&V is convinced that we have to work sector by sector, that we have to offer tailor-made solutions and that we best start from existing regulations. In this case, for example, we could start from the 25-day scheme, which is already being applied in the sociocultural and sports sector today, for example for functions such as holiday and youth animator or people giving lectures. If they do these tasks for less than 25 days, they will be exempted from social contributions. The employer does pay the normal company tax, of course. However, this is a real tool. This arrangement could be applied to the work of association, if it could be partially adapted. The number of days should be converted into hours. Usually it is a few hours a week, for example on Wednesdays or Saturdays. In addition, the number of functions needs to be expanded with the functions we need. Moreover, it must be administratively simple for all non-profit organisations. What do you think of the slope we're proposing to get out of here? Which slopes do you possibly walk yourself? What functions do we really need to find a solution for? Will you be ready effectively before the end of the year to support our association life in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u42	I fully agree with you, Mrs Lanjri, that this is an important problem. We have already said in the coalition agreement that we absolutely must find a solution in order to allow associations to do so properly. We're looking into that. You know that there have been several legislative initiatives in this Chamber to find a solution for the use of volunteers in society. You also know that there have been many negative opinions from the Council of State and from the National Labour Council, but I think we agree that the associations, the sports sector and the socio-cultural sector should not be affected by the fact that we are in a legislative context here. We are consulting with organisations representing volunteering and association life. The date, at the end of December, is approaching so quickly that we may indeed need to find a temporary emergency solution that can help us temporarily while working on a more fundamental, robust perspective. You're making an interesting suggestion. You refer to Article 17 of the Royal Decree of November 1969, which states those 25 hours. That's a possibility. We're looking at that right now. There may be other possibilities, but indeed, we will have to find solutions tailored to the needs of sports associations and the socio-cultural sector, perhaps temporary solutions, so that on 1 January they will know where they stand once the date of the Constitutional Court has expired. You have an ally in me. I'm glad you're pulling the cart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u43	Minister, it is good to hear that we are allies in this and that we are fighting together to safeguard the union work. I'd like to make a little suggestion. This is about association work, not about volunteering, because volunteering is completely unpaid. We must also support this. I believe that if we change the 25-day track properly, which may be a solution not only in the short term but also in the long term. I think it is fine that we should start with this and that we should effectively ensure that people can continue their association work. I am counting on you to ensure that this solution can be done without much red tape, that it is easy to use, that it can be used in hours. In this way, our associations, our young people, our elderly people, etc. can continue to rely on the people who are doing the union work today, people who we need very much in these times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u44	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the mandatory closing of shops, online shopping has exploded in our country, and with that, the number of packages that bpost has to deliver to home every day. More than 600,000 a day! That's more than the company can handle right now. Not every package gets to the customers' house fast. What's the result? The shopkeepers are angry. The customers are angry. The postmen who work hard and at the same time get a lot of criticism, of course, are also angry. Colleagues, nobody wanted this, but it was necessary. What do we do now? Are we gonna wait grumpyly for a package with delay? Shall we stay mad at the postmen who have two hands? Or do we dare to recognise that when everyone orders mass packages at the same time and expects them to be delivered immediately, this naturally leads to problems? Madam Secretary, I do not expect the magical answer from you to guarantee that every package will be on everyone's doorstep tomorrow. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that foreign e-commerce platforms such as bol.com, Zalando and Ali Baba, screens with huge discounts and ultra-fast deliveries. Our local traders can never compete with that. Our mailmen do not get that worked out, but they are the face of those false promises of top service at dumped prices. It's that race to the bottom we have to deal with. We must avoid playing local traders, consumers and postmen against each other. That's been going on for a while, but it's coming to the surface now. If we don't intervene now, it won't stop after the corona crisis. My question to you is, Madam Secretary...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u45	Madam Secretary, there were certainties. Santa Claus and Santa will be here in time. This year could be different by bpost. Many grandparents are no longer allowed to hug their grandchildren, but they would still very much like to give a gift from Saint Nicholas. Many grandparents have now also bought something online for the first time, with the necessary stress. That stress will increase if that package doesn't arrive in time. They must already miss their grandchildren's hugs, but we must not take away their grandchildren's smile. Also the local trader is with the hands in the hair. They are resilient in this crisis. Many have now launched a web shop for the first time. Unfortunately, they also get disgruntled customers. The package doesn't arrive, they have to go get it themselves or they have to pay extra for it. Of course, the latter cannot be done. E-commerce is booming. We've all started shopping online on a massive scale. That is a good trend in itself, because we are still lagging behind compared to other countries. Only we find that our state-owned bpost is not yet ready for that transition. However, it was written in the stars that e-commerce would increase. For the record, I do not point any finger at the staff and postmen of post office. They're working overtime. They endure weather and wind. It is often a race against the clock to deliver the packages and that often with detox material. They are also often the head of Jut. I would therefore like to express my great respect for each of them. Madam Secretary, we are in exceptional circumstances. We therefore expect exceptional measures from management. You had a meeting with them last week. I would have liked to know what measures will be taken in the short and long term to improve and improve the quality of e-commerce? I would also like to know whether you think the current management contract is strict enough in terms of quality of service? Is the consignor entitled to a discount or compensation if the delivery cannot take place in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u46	We have only two hands, as the posters say, working day in, day out of their backs, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I got a WhatsApp message this morning, which I would like to read out: "When I see it's a toy, I think "another try" because I wouldn't want sinterlaas and Santa Claus to fail this year. I have an average of two hours extra a day for nothing, because that's what I do for a living, because I'm proud of it, but I'm at the end of my Latin. Many colleagues have thrown the towel in the ring, exhausted and burned out. In 15 years, Bpost has cut 14 000 jobs and the new contracts are so precarious that young people do not stay. That really can't last." Madam Deputy Prime Minister, do you know what the salary of an auxiliary postman is? Do you know that? Does anyone know that? That's 1,400 euros net, plus free overtime and Saturday work. That's what the helpers are working for now. So we really shouldn't be trying to figure out where it went wrong. Hakim put it out there. Thousands of jobs have been lost at bpost in recent years, hundreds of offices and different sorting centres have been closed down. Before the packet wave, we had a wave of savings and now something has to be done about it. That can only be solved by additional jobs, good jobs. After all, we do not want the Christmas Day to come. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I have four questions for you. Will you intervene with bpost to raise wages? Will you ask Post to give the newly recruited colleagues a permanent contract? Will you abolish the status of the aid workers whose job is a job of poverty? How will you make sure (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the activity at bpost has changed a lot in recent years. There was a significant decrease in mail and an increase in parcels. But this year, it's even worse! The coronavirus crisis has led to a particularly large increase in the number of packages. And with the end-of-year celebrations approaching, this year it's more than 600,000 parcels waiting in the bpost warehouses instead of the 270,000 parcels, as is the case every year, at the same time. The staff is under pressure, and rightly so, given the quantity of the packages, the time spent depositing them. On the other hand, we have been able to see a large number of communications, in a limited period of time, from bposts, sometimes in various ways. First of all, there was a halt to the distribution, then a distribution, after five days and a possible removal of the parcels at a collection point, and then a new collection service for local traders, the hiring of 2,000 workers and, finally, the announcement of a pilot project within a few weeks or a few months, with a view to distribution on Sundays. The situation is very complicated! Minister, what is the status of the situation at bpost today? Can you give us a clear position on the management of parcels in the coming weeks, whether for home deliveries or pick-up at post points? What exactly is the situation with regard to the hiring of temporary workers? How does bpost intend to communicate effectively with local traders on its new kidnapping service? If, fortunately, the reopening of non-essential shops could be possible next week, which could help reduce pressure on the postal sector, could the pilot project be advanced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Mr Parent for his Mayden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, 600,000 parcels to be delivered daily for bpost, compared to 270,000 an ordinary year, this is an unprecedented, historic logistical challenge. This challenge has been experiencing the limitations of the system and bpost staff in the front line since the beginning of the crisis, which has done an extraordinary job. Behind these figures are citizens, businesses and workers. For citizens, end-of-year gifts are attentions that connect, while it is difficult to see their loved ones. Service is essential. And on this point, Madam Minister, I welcome your request to bpost to ensure the delivery of all packages. For businesses, especially for local businesses, and for businesses, e-commerce is today a way not to make profits but to survive the crisis. These self-employed have invested everything in their activity: time, money, energy. Service must be provided within the correct time frame. The complaints were numerous because the anxiety is strong. Let us remember that, for one trader in two, December is 20% of the turnover of a normal year. We have to help them now. Our Ecolo-Groen Group does not want a post-crisis situation where trade would have become the monopoly of international and bpost purchasing platforms has a responsibility in relation to this. For bpost workers, the pressure is also extreme. To ensure the flow, the tours have been strengthened. The work is non-stop and extended on weekends. Today we hear testimony from staff like in Terzake this Tuesday with this quote in particular: "I sometimes wake up at night because I'm afraid I won't finish my job." Beware of that! If he is attached to his public service missions, the bpost staff has only two hands and deserves our full respect. Minister, I have two questions or suggestions. For local businesses, it is essential to make known and support new initiatives, such as the click and collect system set up by bpost within its offices. This makes it possible to buy local but it is also an ease for customers and traders discharged from the stress of delivery and logistics. What measures can be considered both to better manage the influx of parcels in the coming weeks and to ease the pressure on bpost workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u50	Madam Secretary, the parcel services are currently running like a tierelier. It started with corona, tomorrow it's Black Friday, sinterklaas they have to help next week and soon it's Christmas and then New Year. Apparently Bpost's on his gums because of this. It is clear that this is not the fault of the workers, because those people work hard and do what they can. They're letting the country spin in this months-long difficult period. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank them and do so as a grandson of a proud biller straight from the heart. Madam Minister, you specifically mentioned in your policy paper the support of "shop here" and the role of bpost in it. We support and encourage this action, but Bpost must of course also be ready for that role. It is therefore a good thing that the negative messages from earlier this week have been updated, but there is still work to be done. For example, we still find the end-of-year package allowance a particularly bad signal. We must continue to stress that a crisis is also an opportunity. This is how we welcome the start of Sunday deliveries. They also show that the social partners, who have agreed to this, understand very well the challenges facing the sector. They know very well which direction to go. We always welcome this social dialogue, which constitutes a threshold for social dumping practices, which no one wants of course. One can philosophize about it, but e-commerce cannot be stopped and if bpost does not cooperate, foreign actors will jump into the market. Madam Minister, that brings me to my very specific question. Why is there too little bpost at the moment in being a partner of the local middle class?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u51	Madam President, Madam Minister, the delivery of parcels in our country is in ruins. However, in other countries, which also have a lockdown and where the shops are closed, the parcel delivery runs on wheels. I am thinking of France and the United Kingdom. What makes the issue more acidic for many small entrepreneurs is that they now have to take even more costs from a public body. First, they are obliged by the government to close down. Afterwards, an additional cost is put in their throats by a public body. What also worries me is that it seems that it is only the small entrepreneurs and the small self-employed who have to pay the extra costs. The Amazons and the Bol.coms of this world get much smaller extra costs to pay. As mentioned above, we must support the hardworking postman and woman. The staff in the sorting centres and in the post offices are working every day to ensure that the packages are delivered to you. What is clear to me is that the problem lies with management, which has not anticipated the current peak. How do I know? It's very simple. I know from a call from the CEO with stock exchange analysts less than three weeks ago. Apparently, that call hasn't been picked up by the press yet. I quote Jean-Paul Van Avermaet, the CEO, who says: "I do not expect a leap like in March, April and May. We won't have another big spike. No, I don't expect that." How is such a thing possible? Three weeks ago, on 4 November 2020, the CEO of Bpost notes that management is not expecting an additional peak. That's not gonna happen to me. This is about mismanagement at the top of the company. Madam Secretary, my question to you is very simple. What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u52	Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, electronic commerce has been growing significantly for several years. This phenomenon was already known well before the crisis of coronavirus. The company has increased from 270,000 parcels to be distributed to some 400,000 parcels to be distributed per day. These were the numbers of the first wave. With the second wave, with the partial reconfinition, with the approach of the holidays, we now arrive at absolutely astronomical amounts. I am told that last Friday there were 582,000 parcels to distribute and yesterday, the historical maximum was reached with 617,000 parcels. When I say historical maximum, it means "to this day" because we are not yet in December. These are the findings. I think that public enterprise faces two challenges. There is the challenge of the very short term and the challenge of the medium term. In the very short term, volumes will increase further in the weeks and days ahead. The question is how the company will deal with it. What I also want to say, and other colleagues have pointed out, is that we do not want a solution at any cost to the workers. Indeed, the workers assumed the first wave. They worked overtime and took on a considerable amount of work. It is therefore necessary to find solutions in terms of hiring, organisation and equipment, but it must also be done in a way that is respectful of workers. In the medium term, the company must obviously put in place a structural solution, a lasting solution to this growth of the parcels. It's a market development. Minister, my questions are simple. In the short term, how will the company deal with this influx of parcels that is still coming? Secondly, what measures has the company taken in terms of recruitment? What is planned in the coming weeks? How do you see with the company the impact on workers and their working conditions? In the longer term, what investments will need to be made? Are the infrastructure sufficient to cope with this influx?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very topical issue that concerns us very much over the last few days and this week. Some of you have given the figures. The e-commerce booms and bpost today distributes more than 600,000 packages a day. bpost evokes more than 600,000 parcels. I visited the sorting centre in Brussels X last night and realized the complexity of the procedures. The work these people have to do is really amazing. According to some of you, Bpost should have seen that coming and should have taken precautions. Of course, there are limits to the capacity of such a company and the ability to effectively handle the more than 2.5 times larger volumes than usual. When bpost communicated last Friday that probably about 5% of the packages would no longer be delivered at home, but should be picked up, after receiving an e-mail, there was a lot of commotion about that. That commotion is very understandable, both from the traders and from the customers who order packages. Of course, Comeos has responded. The customers suddenly heard that their package would not be delivered at home, but that it had to be picked up. I responded and asked Bpost to come up with an alternative solution to this problem. Personally, I don't think all packages should always be delivered at home. Developing strategies of pick-up or other means of distributing packages is in the medium term in the plans of bpost. I will come back to that later. However, at this time of crisis when people are effectively relying on the delivery of those packages, something had to change in that decision. That also happened on Monday, two days after I indicated that this had to be reviewed. In doing so, I would have left the company free. bpost is a public company, but an autonomous company. This means that I do not intervene in the business as such. I have noticed that after two days a number of creative solutions have already been provided. First of all, Bpost said that the 5% could perhaps be solved in a different way. Everyone gets their package delivered at home. People who would get an e-mail that they might be able to pick up the package, can indicate that they can't. bpost guarantees delivery at home of all packages, even on time. More than 90% of all packages are delivered to the customer after 24 hours after they arrive at bpost. About all packages are delivered within 2 to 3 days. For that small remaining percentage, it may take another day or two longer if people say that they can't pick up the package. Apart from picking up, there are also a number of systems to cope with the large influx of packages in the medium term, such as Last Mile Delivery and Ecozones. There are already pilot projects, such as in the city of Mechelen, where packages can be delivered in depots around the city and then delivered to home in an environmentally sound way. The customers can of course also indicate that they will pick up the packages at post offices or vending machines - you know all the safes - or at other traders. A second measure taken by bpost this week in a few days is the accelerated roll-out of Click & Collect. That came into force yesterday, and that was also communicated. Local traders can drop off their packages at the post office, where the customer can pick them up, if the customer and the trader so wish. That system was set up to prevent people from ordering from the big platforms. This will encourage local trade. This can also be extended in the longer term to promote cooperation with local traders. A third measure taken by Bpost, given the increasing number of packages to be delivered, is to recruit more temporary workers. On Friday evening people were talking about 2,700 extra people and on Monday that figure has already been raised to 3,000. That's a lot. Maybe we don't realize that, but in the short term recruiting 3,000 people to join the triage centers for delivery of the packages because the customers like to get their packages home is an immense effort that was made by bpost. I have heard questions about working conditions and wage conditions. During the first wave, where the same thing happened, people were recruited temporarily. Of these, six hundred received permanent recruitment from bpost. It is always a question of contractual recruitment. These are a number of measures that bpost has taken and accelerated in a few days. We must appreciate that, and that appreciation is primarily for the people in the workplace. I have also received questions about the famous 1 euro extra that will be requested from Black Friday - tomorrow - until 25 December. The announcement of this was very unfortunate at the time when the excess capacity and the delivery of packages were in the news. I understand that this is an agreement between bpost and very large customers, especially customers who deliver more than 500 packages a year to bpost and who already get a big discount on the cooperation with bpost. In the peak period, which was foreseen, the large customers pay 1.00 euro more per package. Those are market conditions. Sometimes it is said that there is no need for public participation in such companies and that we better let the market play. Well, exactly, the market has played. Bpost's business must, as I indicated, be market-oriented. It's an autonomous, listed company. As a government, we cannot intervene in the price setting. Allow me to comment on the announced Sunday work. That announcement was not made in response to or as a solution to the current crisis, as it takes time to roll out such a measure. You understand that bpost has communicated that from 7 February there will also be delivery on Sundays. This is in accordance with all legal agreements and also in consultation with the trade unions. Sunday work will, of course, take place on a voluntary basis and will become a temporary project that will be evaluated. As an autonomous company in a very competitive market, I believe that bpost is taking a step that some may regret and others applaud. Bpost must be able to continue to operate under enormous competition from private companies, which have already announced that they are at their maximum capacity and no longer accept extra packages. However, Bpost continues to accept packages to continue to care for both traders and customers, which corresponds to the public service remit. I am therefore very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. It is good that you have encouraged Bpost to use this crisis to modernise and improve services. I also love the way colleagues here have expressed their appreciation for the hard work of our postmen. Colleagues, the consequence of this is that we all have to recognise that the offer of dumped and unrealistic delivery times by the large foreign players that flood our market here threatens to make the same mailmen the biggest victim, together with our local traders and with the consumer. I really hope that after the corona crisis we will also be aware of that fundamental race to the bottom, which we really need to stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, a good mate looks forward, far ahead. That e-commerce would be booming, could be predicted. Bpost has taken measures, but they're not enough. The consequences are clear: the staff of bpost moans under the workload. The extra staff is therefore more than welcome. The late deliveries mainly affect our local traders who are already struggling. Consumers have lost confidence again and are displeased, and may next time take the step to buy online from the big internet giants. Colleagues, this really should have been avoided. I am pleased to hear you say that new measures will be taken. I hope they will also provide a solution. You contacted them immediately. I do not think you should manage the operational processes as a guardian minister, but the government has a strong instrument, namely the management contract. We now need to re-record and review this, and make more use of sufficient staff and quality service. We really need to do that now: we need to renegotiate that management contract. Our citizens and our local traders are counting on our public service bpost. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You say it's an autonomous public body, but the CEO is designated by the government, by you. You said it in the news yesterday that you weren't good at it. A man who earns 820,000 euros a month says that people all have a nice paycheck. It's about people with a salary of 1,400 euros a month, who do a lot of unpaid overtime. The relationship between what the CEO deserves and what those people, who are now working their backs, are getting, is a big problem, I think, and there is no solution to that now. Last week we made a proposal to you in the context of your policy paper, in particular to give all people at least a minimum wage of EUR 14 per hour. That would be a nice gesture for all the people who are working their asses off right now. What will happen to the profits made during this period? I hope this will also be for the staff, Madam Secretary. I'm glad those extra jobs are coming, but we hope those people get a permanent contract and that the saint is there for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers. As Liberals, we consider three essential things. First, persons who have ordered, paid and are waiting for a package must be delivered within a reasonable time. You think that this situation cannot disturb the work of Saint Nicholas and Santa Claus. Next, the bpost staff must be supported. I am thinking in particular of two factors in my commune, Sammy and Benoît, whose van overflows every day. They must also be helped and supported. Finally, traders who have had to adapt to a crisis that is already very complicated for them and, sometimes, opt to continue their activities in the form of deliveries and who try to extract their head from the water, must be supported. To this end, bpost communication must be clear and legible, so that traders and their customers can know what will happen to their parcels and what services are being deployed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u58	Madam Minister, I am already glad that bpost is an autonomous public enterprise, but above all public. Indeed, the logistics sector faces enormous challenges all over Europe. Here we're talking about bpost. Private companies also face difficulties and reduce their services to the population, but this is not discussed. Today we are talking about bpost, which, as you have pointed out, is the only company that is facing such an influx without reducing its services. It is important to stress this. It was recalled that bpost services are essential for both local businesses and citizens. In the future, beyond the short-term solutions that need to be pursued, in a context of exit from the crisis, bpost must be, more than ever, an actor supporting the Green Deal and the redeployment of our economy. Therefore, I encourage you to work in this direction with this society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your very detailed and very clear positive answer to all the questions. Bpost must continue to take everything out of the box to support our local entrepreneurs and our economy. It's not gonna be the mailmen and the delivery guys. I want to thank them again. The crisis today is an opportunity, I have already said it. We are confident that you, management and, of course, staff will seize that opportunity. I would like to conclude my reply with a clear appeal to everyone in the room and, in fact, to everyone in the country: e-commerce is often something very useful. One can't imagine it anymore. But think now, and especially when non-essential stores open again, especially to those people and buy locally, buy Belgian.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u60	Madam Minister, unfortunately I cannot accept your answer. I just read you what the CEO of Bpost himself said, less than three weeks ago. He repeated it three times during the call, which lasted 20 minutes, with people buying or selling the shares. I invite everyone to rehearse it. It's really hallucinating. On the question of whether one expects another peak at bpost and whether the people are ready, the man continues to say three times that one does not expect a big peak and that one at bpost is ready for what will come. We've been in lockdown for two days. That is why I repeat today the question that we have also raised in committee. We've asked for a hearing. We want to be able to put a number of questions to the CEO of Bpost here in Parliament. We want to be able to ask the ombudswoman a number of questions. We want to hear from the entrepreneurs who, at the top of the crisis, get to deal with the package problem, what they think of this. Today we are repeating the question, and I do not understand why the majority parties do not agree to a hearing on the problem at bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems to me that it is too early to draw the conclusions of this debate. Have there been sufficient anticipation and hiring? In my view, it is necessary to take a step back to analyse all this, and I am sure that the debate will not be closed this afternoon and that we will have the opportunity to discuss it again in the Committee on Public Enterprises. In fact, we have already taken a step forward in this area. Generally speaking, you represent the main shareholder, which is the state. It is therefore up to you to support a vision of the future for the company, which allows it to adapt to a changing market, which plans the investments necessary for this development and which preserves the workers. The workers are the essential link, the strength of the company, and we rely on you to preserve them and to provide suitable solutions for the future of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, the hotels are closed because of corona, but there is one hotel that stays open and even offers free rooms. Unfortunately, that's Hotel Europa. More than 20,000 illegal migrants arrived in the Canary Islands this year, 10 times more than last year. Every day new boats depart towards that Spanish island group. The European regulations, with which you are so keen to protect us, Mr Mahdi, are not helping us at all. Indeed, these illegal migrants do not usually apply for asylum under the Dublin Regulation, but simply move on to the Spanish mainland, from where they are heading for North-West Europe with the greatest ease. So there is a new migration hotspot right before our eyes. Mr Secretary of State, I have a lot of questions about this. Firstly, did you urge the Spanish authorities to put an end to reception in luxury hotels in order to reduce the suction effect? Secondly, according to the German and Spanish security services, illegal migrants are not or are not under control. Are you prepared to assume your own responsibilities and introduce tight controls at airports? Thirdly, is the staggering news that the extreme left-wing government in Spain is funding flights to allow these illegal migrants to travel to North-West European countries? If so, have you protested to the Spanish authorities against this shameful course of action? Then I come to my most important question. It is very likely that the open border lobby, to which I also count the extreme left-wing Commissioner Ylva Johansson, will soon return with the tried and tested left-wing whirlwind that there is a humanitarian need to relocate these illegal migrants from the Canary Islands to North-West Europe. I see your green and red Vivaldic colleagues gloating at the thought of importing even more illegal migrants. Mr Mahdi, will you clearly rule out such relocation of illegal migrants from the Canary Islands here today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u63	Mr Van Langenhove, let me be clear: the European asylum and migration policy as we know it today is bankrupt. There must be action. The policy has to be different. Today in Gran Canaria there are eleven times more people than day a year ago and one in twenty-four of them perish. So we do need a new policy, because what is happening today cannot be sustained. We will have to tackle the problem in the short and long term. In the short term, I assume that the countries of origin will take responsibility for their own nationals, even in times of COOVID-19. I also expect Spain to take responsibility. That means that people arriving there are registered and identified and fingerprints are taken. This is important because otherwise the system will not be sustainable. I would also like to make it very clear that people arriving in Spain via Gran Canaria and applying for asylum in Belgium are covered by the Dublin scheme and can be sent back to Spain. In addition, there is the long term. We can do a great deal in the short term, but the policy will have to be different if we are to avoid a new Lesbos in Spain. We need a new European asylum and migration policy, a new European asylum and migration pact that will ensure that we know much more quickly who arrives as an economic migrant and who is a refugee. That pact must ensure that people are screened within five days and that economic migrants are immediately returned to our borders. This will be necessary in order to provide a response at European level. In addition, I am also doing what is necessary bilaterally. I asked my Spanish colleague for a meeting on 15 November. I will once again urge that this meeting be held as soon as possible, both with the Spanish Minister for the Interior and with the Spanish Ambassador. Last Tuesday I sat with the Moroccan ambassador in the context of the return policy. In the meantime, on the basis of the latest cases that have taken place, I intend to roll out a distress campaign to make it clear that the people who take the step to come to Belgium via a very dangerous route, on which they risk their lives, in an irregular way as an economic migrant, have no future in Europe and in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u64	Madam President, Mr Mahdi, you have only been Secretary of State for a few weeks, but unfortunately your record has already been turned grey. Instead of welcoming illegal migrants with open arms to the Canary Islands and offering them luxurious hotel rooms, as the Australians do, while waiting for them to transit to a Western European country of their choice, you should say clearly and clearly to anyone who wants to enter Europe illegally:No way. You will not make Europe your home . If we do not do so urgently, and if we do not stop this new wave of illegal migration, the forthcoming population explosion in Africa will put an end to Europe. Our country is full. Our continent is full. That's enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u65	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u66	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2020, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2020, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u67	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of the actual members of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. The next item is the inclusion of votes in order to designate the effective members of the boards of INIA/MYRIA. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1583/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1583/1) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting on 29 October 2020, members were able to vote from Friday 13 November 2020 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 29 October 2020, Members were able to vote from Friday 13 November 2020 until 4 p.m. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u68	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Bert Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u70	Madam President, you will not blame me for explaining my group's position after my report. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and pleasure of reporting orally on this draft law, which nevertheless enjoys some urgency. The Committee discussed the draft bill, as well as an additional bill from Mr Wollants, at the meeting of 24 November 2020, that is, the day before yesterday. The Minister explained that this draft aims at the ratification of the Royal Decree of 17 October 2019 establishing the amount of the Repartition Contribution for the year 2019. It is a tax jurisdiction reserved for the legislator, but in this case the legislator delegated that power to the King. This Royal Decree shall be deemed never to have had effect if it is not ratified by a law within 12 months of its entry into force. The relevant Royal Decree entered into force on 15 December 2019. The ratification law should therefore be published by 15 December 2020. For this reason, the Minister presented the draft law for the ratification of the relevant KB and for the same reasons, the Minister asked the Committee to report orally on the text adopted by the committee at the next plenary session. That is why I am worthy to ask your attention. The Minister recalled in the Committee that the law of 25 December 2016 amended the previously cited law of April 2003. Thus, the new calculation method for the repartition contribution applicable to the nuclear power plants from 2016 onwards was established for Objective 3, Objective 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. In the present case, it concerns the nuclear power plants whose duration of operation was not extended. As the investments in these nuclear power plants had been written off faster than the duration of operation of the power plants, the system of the redistribution contribution was developed in order to remove abnormally high profit margins for the operators. For 2019, the repartition contribution shall be equal to the minimum amount fixed for a three-year period or 38% of the profit margin, as calculated by the CREG. It is the highest amount of these two formulas to be used. The CREG's opinions show that the profit margin was negative, which calculated the determination of the remuneration contribution with the minimum amount of 177 million euros as a basis. However, the Minister points out that the remuneration for 2020 is significantly lower than the contribution for 2019. This is mainly due to higher costs and investment, in order to increase the safety of nuclear power plants in general. With regard to Mr Wollants's bill, which was also presented in committee, the author points out that his proposal has exactly the same objective and exact wording as the draft law. He therefore stated that he had no objection to the fact that the discussion would continue on the basis of the text of the draft law. During the general discussion, Mr Wollants noted that Parliament once again did not have much time to discuss the draft law, that there were sufficient explanations for not increasing the contribution, and that it was a positive thing that the Minister undertook to submit the annual ratification laws to Parliament in good time. Mr Calvo supported this last point and proposed that the Committee return to the dossier at a later date, in order to have a clear view of its causes, following the significantly lower remuneration for 2020. The Flemish Interest Group noted that the spirits of Ecolo-Groen, among others, have matured, as the same group abstained from voting on the previous contribution in 2019. The Group regrets that MEPs have had to wait nearly another year to deal with the ratification law. In this way, it remains difficult for a Member of Parliament to carry out his or her controlling task. The Flemish Interest Group also does not now comment on whether the calculation mechanism laid down by law would lack effectiveness and adequacy and the regulator would have the right tools and information to carry out its task properly in the objectification of the operator's costs. The Flemish Interest Group continued to be surprised at the fact that some parties were still struggling with the calculations in 2019, because the contributions would be far too low, but no longer repeat their rush. Mr Verduyckt, on behalf of the sp.a Group, stated that in the past the contribution was much greater than it is today, and that the repeated reduction was repeatedly charged by his group. According to Mr Verduyckt, it was the previous government's choice to reduce the amounts. However, since it is important in any case that the contribution should reach the State Treasury, the sp.a Group supports the draft. In its reply, the Minister acknowledged the decreasing trend in the amount of the contribution as a result of the way costs and profits are calculated. The calculation will also be carried out for 2020 on the basis of a lower minimum amount than in the past. The Minister considers that the calculation remains at least a difficult one. Operators have all the information to be checked by the CREG. With regard to the legal basis, it has been proven once again that it is difficult for the legislator to be ahead of the market. The file on the contribution for the lifetime extension of Tihange 1 is a striking example of this. During the replies, Mr Wollants stressed that only the investments linked to nuclear power stations whose lifespan was not extended should be taken into account for determining the contribution. In his view, the CREG was right to remove from the calculations the investments linked to a potential extension of the lifetime of Objectives 4 and Tihange 3, as this would of course be a preliminary deduction on an extension dossier, which might subsequently have to be included in a separate calculation mechanism. Mr Wollants then criticised the method of calculation worked out at the time for the Thange 1 dossier, which did not lead to the increased yield. Finally, he called on the Minister to be inspired by all the experiences of the past in a successful new negotiation with the nuclear operators. Finally, with regard to the Thange 1 dossier, Mrs Marghem pointed out that her predecessor had opted for a formula at the time. It also clarified the other flat-rate system for Objective 1 and Objective 2, as well as the different methods of fixing the minimum amount for the periods 2016-2019 and 2020-2023. She also agreed with the request to invite the CREG to the committee to provide the necessary explanations for the calculation of the new minimum contribution, taking into account the figures submitted by the operator for the plants whose life span has not been extended. The full draft law was adopted with 12 votes in favour and three abstentions. The abstentions were from the PVDA Group and the Vlaams Belangroep. I now explain our abstention. At the committee meeting, I was surprised to see that some groups, which were still stormy last year, are now experiencing this legacy of the past in a fairly laconic way. They're part of the majority. It is regrettable, however, that the contribution continues to fall, but neither the calculation mechanism nor its adequacy are being called into question. It is also noted that the operator has a lot of possibilities and a lot of figures, while the supervisor has to do so. However, we are no longer hearing very fundamental criticism, very curious. We remain consistent. We were not involved in the agreement of December 25, 2016 of the then Michel government. We do not comment on the assessment of the minimum amount, whether it is too high or too low. We note that the method of calculation is laid down in legislation. We hope, of course, that the CREG will provide more clarity at one of the next committee meetings. Of course, we agree with nuclear interest rates and we also believe that they are necessary. I have already outlined the reason for this, in particular the fact that the operators have already written off nuclear power plants for a long time. However, we remain consistent, others do not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u71	Madam President, thank you to the rapporteur for the very accurate and comprehensive oral report. As explained in the report, it concerns the ratification of a royal decree without which the royal decree cannot have any effect or at least cease to have effect. As discussed in committee, it is absolutely my intention not to wait long with the next ratifications, but to come to Parliament sooner. This may also be a moment to reflect on the repartition contribution for the year 2020 which, as explained, was significantly reduced. In fact, this is a purely formal draft law for the ratification of a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u72	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u73	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1541/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1541/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u75	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1357: Steven Matheï, Dieter Vanbesien, Servais Verherstraeten, Joris Vandenbroucke, Laurence Zanchetta - 1635: Steven Matheï, Dieter Vanbesien, Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej, Christian Leysen, Joris Vandenbroucke, Gilles Vanden Burre, Benoît Piedboeuf. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two proposals. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two proposals. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Vermeersch, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Leysen, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u77	Madam President, I will be brief. This is, after all, a legislation on which there is agreement between all parties. I would like to say three things that are also transposable in other tax files and in tax legislation that will still be dealt with in this Chamber in the future. I fear that this will still happen very regularly. A first element, we live in the rule of law. Some Members, and it was not only the Communists but also members of the majority, speak very easily of fraudsters and tax evaders in this file. If the legislator considers that a particular practice, which is entirely legal and which has been in existence for more than 200 years, is no longer desirable, it is the legislator's job to amend the law. That is exactly what we are doing here today. What we should not do is label citizens who have done nothing illegal as fraudsters. I was quite displeased about that, but at the same time I was relieved to see that some members of the majority shared my view. Let this be a warning for future legislation: treat the taxpayer correctly. A second element - legislation - and certainly fiscal legislation - must be robust. What do I mean by that? We have made a number of comments in the legislative process surrounding this dossier and we have also asked for support for the question of advice to the Council of State. All this was dismissed as delaying manoeuvres. The Council of State has confirmed our view that a special majority is required if the taxable matter of regional taxes is to be changed. Thanks to these comments, we are saving the legislative work that we have before us just for being too easy to destroy in the context of proceedings before the Constitutional Court. In the meantime, creating the perception that our group was doing delaying manoeuvres, while we were right, is a form of cheap politics. A third element, which is important for the future, is that we must be careful to move from a situation of non-taxation to a situation of double taxation. Both legislative proposals aim to prevent the avoidance of gift tax by also subjecting foreign notarial donation certificates of movable property to registration formalities. The strong focus on tax avoidance does not alter the fact that there are also situations, and arise, where there will be double taxation. Germany, France and Spain, for example, apply the gift tax to the place of residence of the gifted person. Belgium links the gift tax to the donor's place of residence. This creates situations where the same donation will be subject to double taxation within the European Union. Those situations aren't going to be solved here today. This responsibility rests on the shoulders of the regions. I therefore hope that they will accept their responsibility. I have already received a number of encouraging signals from the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are closing a back door which is being used to avoid an already favourable arrangement for registered donations. Mr Donné, I must tell you that the initiators never said that the people who used it committed fraud. It is indeed a legal way of avoiding the rights of donation. That is, as you say, undesirable behavior, and so the law needs to be amended to correct that unwanted behavior. In this way, we can steer legislation towards fairer taxation. I repeat what I said in committee, namely that fair taxation may not be such a good term. What is just for me is perhaps not for my neighbor and vice versa. Before the summer we had a hearing in this room on another subject and one of the attendees was Professor Maus. He said at that time that there are people who think it is fair to think about tax implications in different ways and to puzzle themselves in order to achieve the most beneficial outcome. This is also apparent from the fact that a number of opinionators in recent months have stated that what we are doing today is abolishing a legitimate way of giving. They consider it normal that a donation with notarial deed made through a foreign notary should be treated in a different way from that same donation with notarial deed through a Belgian notary. That is their opinion and they are entitled to it. However, it is not my opinion and I am pleased that it is not the opinion of this Parliament either. Yesterday we found a consensus in committee and adopted this proposal unanimously. I hope that this will happen again here today. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also pleased that we are keeping pace and that the new law will enter into force on 15 December. Many had hoped for more delay, at least until spring next year. A number of fiscalists were counting on that, but that will not be the case now. There are tax advisors who put these kinds of messages on their website: "The cheese route may disappear in the short term. If you are considering making a notarial donation in the short term, we advise you to take action soon. In addition, notary offices in the Netherlands are overwhelmed, making the available places scarce." Colleagues, it is true that the places available are becoming very scarce. One has three weeks left, then it is finally over. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation and for their support for this proposal and hope that it will be adopted unanimously in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u79	Madam President, as my colleagues have said, we have agreed unanimously to close this legal door that allows for optimisations that were not entirely fair. We have adapted the deadline since, even if the measure will come into force on 15 December, we have allowed the declaration to take place within four months, so as to allow time for the possible translation of the acts. As my colleagues have pointed out, it is necessary to harmonise this new legislation with the legislation in force at regional level, since the risk of double taxation clearly exists in the case of civil agricultural companies, civil real estate companies whose acts must be registered in France and which must now also be registered in Belgium. There is therefore a clear risk of double taxation. There are other examples that my colleague from the N-VA mentioned. In any case, it is necessary to legislate quickly at the level of the three regions (Brussels, Wallonia, Flanders). It may also be necessary to harmonize our legislation. We have therefore made contacts at the regional level to report this. It is also necessary, in any case, in Brussels and Wallonia, to fix the place of declaration. In Flanders, it is quite clear that there is only one place, but this will have to be done in Wallonia and Brussels. In addition, it will be necessary to clarify, probably through a circular, the acceptance of the term "notarial act" because in some countries the use is not made of a notary, but of another official responsible for carrying out such acts. A semantic difference should not lead to distortion. It is therefore necessary to clarify things through a circular. For the rest, apart from the fact that we need to harmonise our legislation and hurry to the regional level, we have unanimously voted for this text. We can welcome the fact that all were in favour of eliminating this possible flight and resolving an issue that was not entirely fair. We can welcome this text. It wasn't a fight we were fighting, but it's a fight we rallied with. We have, moreover, intervened to improve the text a little. It is now time to finalize the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u80	Madam President, the purpose of this proposal is to close the now famous cheese route. I'll explain what that cheese route is based on the following example. Anyone who wants to give money to his children to buy a house or who wants to give their shares has two options today. One can go to a Belgian notary and register the deed, if one wants a fixed date. The deed is then registered and paid a registration fee or a gift tax. Another way of achieving the same thing, but in a more fiscally advantageous way, is to go abroad. Then the route to the Netherlands is often followed, hence the cheese route, to do the same for a Dutch notary. The result is that no deed should be registered in our country and therefore no gift tax is due. That is not tax evasion, it is tax avoidance or the path of the least tax impact. That is justified in itself, but the question is whether it is fiscally fair. The present bill and the proposal of special law close that gate. From now on, the foreign notarial deed of a donation of movable property for Belgian nationals will have to be registered in our country and registration fees or donation taxes will also have to be paid on it. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that this is about notarial acts. It is not at all about taxing bank gifts or hand gifts, which some opinionators in the press wanted us to believe last summer. Bank gifts and hand gifts remain out of the story. It's really about the notarial acts that are past abroad. It is true that the combination of an ordinary law and a special law is a special situation, but that is because there was discussion about whether the matter should be regulated in a special law. Everything then revolves around the concept of taxable matter. That was discussed among lawyers and specialists. In the end, the Council of State has considered that this is a change in the taxable matter and that a special law is therefore necessary. Consequently, the original proposal was split into two parts. A further point of interest was already mentioned by colleagues, namely the risk of double taxation. A gift tax is levied on the bestower, the one who makes the donation, where it is established. If that is a Belgian national resident, they are subject to the donation tax. That is a choice one had to make and it is not a illogical choice. Also for the inheritance tax is checked where the deceased lived and whether he is a Belgian national resident. As a result, double taxation can be achieved if, for example, other countries have found contradictory solutions. Let us be very clear, we are absolutely not in favour of double taxation. Double taxation should be avoided as far as possible. To do so, we are looking at the place where that can be arranged and that competence lies with the Länder. Flanders, for example, can take the initiative to offset or exempt taxes already paid abroad for the same purpose. We will be fully involved in putting that into practice in this way. Another solution could be to use the same criterion worldwide. That would, of course, be the ideal solution, but much more harmonisation would have to be achieved. When approved, the cheese route will be closed in this way. This will end this decades of practice. I would therefore like to thank all those who have worked constructively to discuss and adopt these two proposals here today. I understand that there is general consensus. In particular, I would like to thank the co-sponsors, Mr Verherstraeten of my group and Mr Van Besien and former colleague Gilkinet of Ecolo-Groen. Thanks also to everyone who later supported the special law. With this we can close a fiscal loophole, albeit a legal one. We have to establish that it was used by the most wealthy people. Something they use also has an inseparable effect on the rest, which means that there are fewer revenues. Well, that practice is now legally closed, as it should be, and finally from 15 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Matheï and previous speakers have already explained very clearly, to the technical level, exactly what the legislative proposal means, so I will be brief. For the sake of clarity, I give it to people heartily when they live a part of their moving heritage to pass on to their children or to other people who are important to them. A lot of people do that too, because that way they can benefit from a much lower tax on heritage that is passed on in life. In Flanders it is 3 % or 7 %. A large part of the population who only gets their hands on something after the death of a parent or ancestor pays multiple tax rates. I have a big problem with the fact that those who are already lucky enough to pass on moving patrimony in life think that even 3% of taxes is too much and therefore take the route to foreign notaries, for example the so-called cheese route through the Netherlands, to escape that tax. In this respect, the present legislative proposal is a matter of social and fiscal justice. Hopefully it will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u82	Madam President, I will not be very long because my colleagues have already had the opportunity to highlight the whole point of the text. The CDH will support these two texts which aim to put an end to a circumvention of the payment of the donation rights which, as was recalled, consisted in having the donations registered before a Dutch notary, which did not give rise to the payment of the donation rights as is the case when they are registered before a Belgian notary. These proposals and bills are a very good initiative which provides for compulsory registration of notarial acts taken abroad and which, therefore, closes - finally - a door to tax evasion. The regional authorities will now be able to levy the fees on donations, whether they are passed before a Belgian or foreign notary. It is only justice, and it will help to put a balm on regional finances, which are severely affected by the crisis that we are experiencing. It was time for this bill to come to a conclusion in plenary session after many events to be passed, and we look forward to helping with this adoption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u84	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1357. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1357/17) We shall begin by discussing the articles of the legislative proposal No. 1357. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1357/17) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Special Bill No. 1635. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1635/7) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the proposal of special Law No. 1635. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1635/7) The proposal for a special law has 4 articles. The proposal of special law consists of 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u87	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending various laws relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, No. 1652/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending various laws on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, No. 1652/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u88	Madam President, this draft law aims at four laws whose provisions organise the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The intention is to amend those laws. Since these changes are due to appear in the Belgian Official Journal before the end of the year, the government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u89	Thank you for your explanation. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u90	The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on various temporary and structural provisions in the field of justice in the fight against the spread of coronavirus VOCID-19, No. 1668/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various temporary and structural provisions relating to justice in the context of the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, No. 1668/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u91	Madam President, this draft law aims to take urgent action in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. In order to prevent the spread of the virus, physical contacts and encounters of humans should be avoided when they are not absolutely necessary. To this end, both temporary and definitive measures are introduced. Because the virus is still raging, the government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u92	Thank you. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u93	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No. 1656/1 by Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Steven Matheï, the authors of which request the postponement of one week, I shall consider these considerations to have been taken into account. If there is no objection and with the exception of proposal No. 1656/1 by Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Steven Matheï, for which the authors are asking for a one-week delay, I consider them adopted. I refer these proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall forward these proposals to the relevant committees. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u94	Voters [[115]] Stemmen White or invalid 14 Blank or invalid Valid 101 Geldig Absolute majority 51 Perfect majority Mr. Jean-Yves Bassambi Ilumbe obtained 1 vote. Mr Jean-Yves Bassambi received one vote. Mr. Louis-Léon Christians obtained 19 votes. Mr Léon Christians received 19 votes. Mr. Charles-Eric Clesse obtained 71 votes. Mr Charles-Eric Classe received 71 votes. Mr. Jan Danis obtained two votes. Mr Jan Danis received two votes. Mr Didier Dochain obtained 81 votes. Mr Didier Dohain received 81 votes. Ms Achilvie Docketh-Yemalayen obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Achilvie Docketh-Yemalayen received 0 votes. Mr. Hajib El Hajjaji obtained 75 votes. Mr Hajib El Hajjaji received 75 votes. M. Henri Goldman a obtenu 10 voix. Mr Henri Goldman received 10 votes. Mr. Salim Haouach obtained 9 votes. Mr Salim Haouach received 9 votes. Mr Alain Heselwood obtained 0 votes. Mr Alain Heselwood received 0 votes. Christine Leclercq obtained two votes. Mrs Christine Leclercq received two votes. Ms. Stephanie Mees obtained two votes. Mrs Stéphanie Mees received two votes. Ms. Mireille Mulumba Lubombo obtained 1 vote. Mrs Mireille Mulumba Lubombo has received one vote. Ms. Sotieta Ngo obtained 71 votes. Mrs Sotieta Ngo received 71 votes. Mr. Pierre Nilles obtained 1 vote. Mr Pierre Nilles received one vote. Ms Elena Pagliariccio obtained 0 votes. Mrs Elena Pagliariccio received 0 votes. Mr. Pierre-Arnaud Perrouty obtained 11 votes. Mr Pierre-Arnaud Perrouty received 11 votes. Mr. David Quinaux obtained 1 vote. Mr David Quinaux received one vote. Mr Raphaël Radoux obtained 0 votes. Mr Raphaël Radoux received 0 votes. Ms Bernadette Renauld obtained 64 votes. Mrs Bernadette Renauld received 64 votes. Mr. Mehmet Saygin obtained 8 votes. Mr Mehmet Saygin received 8 votes. Ms. Pauline Tombus obtained 0 votes. Mrs Pauline Tombus received 0 votes. M. Léopold Vanbellingen a obtenu 1 voix. Mr Léopold Vanbellingen received one vote. Ms. Nastasja Wartel obtained 1 vote. Mrs Nastasja Wartel has received one vote. Mrs. Amandine Weykamp obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Amandine Weykamp got one vote. (1) Mr. Charles-Eric Clesse, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an effective Francophone member of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Mr Charles-Eric Classe, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a French-speaking, effective member of the governing boards of UNIA/MYRIA. (2) Mr Didier Dochain, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an effective French-speaking member of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Mr Didier Dohain, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a French-speaking, effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. (3) Mr. Hajib El Hajjaji, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an effective French-speaking member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Mr Hajib El Hajjaji, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a French-speaking, effective member of the governing boards of UNIA/MYRIA. (4) Since Ms. Sotieta Ngo obtained an absolute majority, she was declared a Francophone effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Ms Sotieta Ngo, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a French-speaking, effective member of the governing boards of UNIA/MYRIA. (5) Ms. Bernadette Renauld, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared an effective member of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Ms Bernadette Renauld, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed French speaking, effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u95	Voters [[114]] Stemmen White or invalid 2 Blank or invalid Valid 112 Geldig Absolute majority 57 Perfect majority Mme Sharieen Aftab a obtenu 2 voix. Mrs Sharieen Aftab received two votes. Ms. Evelien Barbieux obtained 31 votes. Mrs Evelien Barbieux received 31 votes. Mr. Abdelkarim Bellafkih obtained 0 votes. Mr Abdelkarim Bellafkih received 0 votes. Ms. Yousra Benfquih obtained 78 votes. Mrs Yousra Benfquih received 78 votes. Ms. Claudia Bonamini obtained 4 votes. Mrs Claudia Bonamini received four votes. Mme. Saartje Boutsen a obtenu 11 voix. Mrs Saartje Boutsen received 11 votes. Mr. Mattias Decoster obtained 1 vote. Mr Mattias Decoster received one vote. Mr. Frederick De Gryse a obtenu 1 voix. Mr Frederick De Gryse received one vote. Ms. Hanne De Roo obtained 96 votes. Mrs Hanne De Roo received 96 votes. Ms Ellen Desmet obtained two votes. Mrs Ellen Desmet received two votes. Nathalie Diesbec obtained 68 votes. Mrs. Nathalie Diesbec received 68 votes. Mr. Aimen Horch obtained 0 votes. Mr Aimen Horch received 0 votes. Mr. Dirk Jacobs obtained two votes. Mr Dirk Jacobs received two votes. Mr. Lieven Miguel Kandolo obtained 8 votes. Mr Lieven Miguel Kandolo received 8 votes. Ms. Alona Lyubayeva obtained 0 votes. Mrs Alona Lyubayeva received 0 votes. Ms. Soumaya Majdoub obtained 0 votes. Mrs Soumaya Majdoub received 0 votes. Mme Lien Meijerink a obtenu 2 voix. Mrs Lien Meijerink received two votes. Mr. Marc Michils obtained 82 votes. Mr Marc Michils received 82 votes. Mr. Rogiest Riyadh obtained 1 vote. Mr Rogist Riyadh has received one vote. Laura-An Rizza obtained 0 votes. Mrs Laura-An Rizza received 0 votes. Mme Sarah Scheepers a obtenu 12 voix. Mrs Sarah Scheepers received 12 votes. Mr. Geert Stas obtained two votes. Mr Geert Stas received two votes. Mr. Freddy Van Eeckhout obtained 0 votes. Mr Freddy Van Eeckhout received 0 votes. Ms. An Van Raemdonck obtained 9 votes. Mrs An Van Raemdonck received nine votes. Hannah Vermaut obtained 9 votes. Mrs Hannah Vermaut received nine votes. M. Willem Verdrijdt a obtenu 3 voix. Mr Willem Verrijdt received 3 votes. M. Joren Vermeersch a obtenu 30 voix. Mr Joren Vermeersch received 30 votes. Mr. Jogchum Vrielink obtained 84 votes. Mr Jogchum Vrielink received 84 votes. (1) Ms. Yousra Benfquih, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Ms Yousra Benfquih, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. (2) Ms. Hanne De Roo, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Ms Hanne De Roo, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. (3) Ms Nathalie Diesbec, having obtained an absolute majority, is declared a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Ms Nathalie Diesbec, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. (4) Mr. Marc Michils, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Mr Marc Michils, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. (5) Mr Jogchum Vrielink, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Mr Jogchum Vrielink, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed a Dutch-speaking, effective member of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u96	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 18 November 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 18 November 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 49/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 49/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u97	Madam President, I have the impression that the Minister for Labour has misunderstood my cri de coeur. However, I had tried to explain how serious the situation was at the airport, using examples and stories and with facts. It's going very badly. It's dark red over there. Since the interview and today there are still two companies where half of the employees are likely to lose their jobs. It's about a lot of people working at the airport. However, we have often debated here before the summer holidays and indicated the importance of the airport and its economic importance. There is more than 2 billion euros of gross national product coming from the airport. The situation at the airport should therefore be a concern of all of us here. However, I do not get that impression and the staff feel that it has been forgotten. We have raised three major problems. First of all, I've already pointed out the jobs. In June 2020 1,500 employees lost their jobs at Swissport. We often have the mouths of social dumping here too. Let me briefly tell you what happens very much at Swissport. Those involved have lost their jobs. The buyer is a new company, Alyzia, which contracted the cleaning under subcontracting. Do you know how these employees are supposed to work now? They all work with an interim contract. Of the 1,500 staff, 150 employees are employed at baggage, loading and check-in desk who have contracts and never know when to start and finish. They have very irregular hours. I got a story from someone who has 400 euros of monthly wages. I would just like to say how serious the situation is. The Minister then replied that the Renault Act is in place. Today, with Autogrill, there is a catering company that will fire half its staff, get fired at Interparking, and so on. It's not gonna stop. Our bill suggested that there should be no layoffs. My second point concerns staff wages. The Minister replied that unemployment will be prolonged. However, I had explained very well that the people on economic unemployment, for example at Brussels Airlines, do not earn EUR 1,000 a month. These people already have a very low income and the unemployment benefit is based on the basic wage. I've heard stories from airport employees knocking on the door at the OCMW. That is the situation today. We had made a proposal that the staff would receive 100% of their wages. No solution has been found for this either. Third, Christmas holidays are at the door. There'll be more flights. I got into that this week. There is no security coordination for the people at the airport. On the contrary, Brussels Airport has made staff less available during the autumn holidays. We all saw what happened there. The people were all close together. There was no coordination. The crew members who were supposed to be there weren't there. In our motion we ask for coordination between the various companies, with Brussels Airport and the social partners. That's also a question from the union. That is a specific question, but there is no solution for today either. Hopefully there will be no situations during the Christmas holidays as there were already in the autumn holidays. It's very clear. My motion calls for unemployment benefit to be at 100%, because people have insufficient income and are hungry. Furthermore, a coordination cell should be established and the test centre at the airport should also be used for workers. Another question from us is that the rent should be suspended. The hospitality managers at the airport now have to dismiss staff. BAC could suspend the rent perfectly, so people don't have to lose their jobs. Finally, we are calling for a statute for workers, because the social dumping that is being organized there is not normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u98	We can start the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u99	Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. Do you intend to hold debate on the point of order on rule 17, to put an item on the agenda next week, at the end of the vote itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u100	We will do so when we discuss the approval of the agenda for the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u101	It's for the organisation of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u102	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u103	Yes 103 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u104	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 20 November 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 20 November 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 50/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nathalie Muylle. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 50/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u105	Madam President, I am putting a constructive proposal to the vote again today. Once again, we ask that, as far as possible, oxygen be given to our entrepreneurs and the self-employed. I have tabled my interpretation and this motion of recommendation because of a lack of clarity for those entrepreneurs and for those self-employed. In March, because of the covid pandemic, they did not know what 2020 would look like for them. When there was more clarity, the second lockdown in the ongoing pandemic came. That has only made the uncertainty worse. Many companies and self-employed people only now know how much advance payments they have to make for this financial year. That is why we are asking that these companies be spared. The previous government has tried to neutralize the discrepancy between the increase and the bonification of these advance payments for businesses and self-employed persons as far as possible. That was certainly a good thing, but that discrepancy has not been completely eliminated for the fourth quarter, in particular the advance payments to be made next month. Only now can we see how much advance payments they have to make. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this measure is necessary. I therefore ask for your support for this exceptional measure at this exceptional time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u106	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u107	Yes 89 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[114]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u109	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole proposal for a special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both language groups reach two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) F I'll see you later. N Yes 58 143 85 Yes Non 0 0 0 No. Abstensions 0 0 0 Abstentions Total 58 143 85 Total The majority of votes in each group shall be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. Accordingly, the House adopts the special bill. It will be passed on as a special bill to the Senate. The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of special law. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft special law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u112	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. "Pas-d-d-observation"? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u113	Madam President, on the basis of Rule 17, we are proposing an agenda for next week's plenary session of the law that changes the conditions for access to the IVG. I remind you that more than a year ago, parliamentary work began on this text and that in 2018, hearings and many parliamentary debates took place. The text had been adopted twice by a very large majority in committee, failing which it could not be concluded in plenary. It has been the subject of many hours of debate. Then, here, we were subjected to a genuine parliamentary flabbus. The Council of State was asked not one, two or three but four times to give an opinion. This is a first for our Parliament. It's really a scandalous practice. In the opinion of the Council of State we have received, there is also a certain annoyance, rightly, of the Council of State, which even refuses to give its opinion on certain amendments, since this is the same thing each time. It also recalls that it is up to Parliament to decide. Recently, women's rights are on all lips. But what women expect is actions. This law is a real opportunity because it adapts three important points of the law regulating access to the IVG. First, there is the time frame, the number of weeks in which the abortion can take place. This change would help the 500 women, who are often very disadvantaged and vulnerable, who have to travel to the Netherlands in order to have an abortion. In addition, the six-day reflection period imposed today on women seeking abortion is extended. Finally, any criminal sanction related to the IVG is definitively withdrawn. This is a significant historical demand for women's rights. It is also important to stress that this law has been expected and supported for many years by associations present on the ground. But, as we know, it is the subject of negotiations within the framework of the government agreement and these 500 women have really been a currency of exchange for the place of some. I would also like to remind some colleagues of what they have said in previous debates. In particular, the PS said: "No time limit shall be allowed to postpone the vote. The timidity, dilatory manoeuvres, obstructions and other threats must stop." As for our colleagues Ecolo, they said: "We refuse to allow this vote to continue to be used by conservative parties that violate women's rights to the benefit of political bargaining." Words are important. I hope you haven't forgotten them. In any case, I have not forgotten them and I therefore invite you to a real examination of conscience. In commissioning this law, it is really turning your back on women's rights. It is to turn your back on these 500 women who, each year, go to the Netherlands to use an IVG. In addition to that, it is now time to vote, because things are changing. First, the right to abortion, like any access to health care today, is made more difficult by confinement. Travel, for example, is much more complicated. Secondly, the international situation is also changing. I would remind you that on 8 October, in France, we approved an extension of the time limit during which abortion can be practised. This means that, soon, Belgium will be surrounded in the north, south and west, in England, by countries that have more progressive legislation than ours. I would like to conclude by reminding you that yesterday was the International Day to Combat Violence against Women. I have three questions for you. Making a woman wait six days before she can do an abortion, isn't it violence against women? Sending to the Netherlands a woman who was beaten, who discovered her pregnancy late, who has to raise money for the trip, to do an abortion, is not violence against women? Finally, is it not violence to prevent women from freely disposing of their bodies? Colleagues, it is not too late to advance the right to abortion. We must put this bill on the agenda, and now will be the time for the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u114	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Merckx for recalling the retroacts and history of this dossier. I also thank her for reminding us of our parliamentary initiative, which has been joined by other political groups. It is not because of the fact that we have tried - at least we can say - to find not only a majority, but also a parliamentary path to bring to fruition this bill which affects an area, it must be recognized, which is not easy and where there are not conflicts of values, but of hierarchy of values. For the rest, I would just like to say to you that the real thought that must be given to us today is to know what method of work we can use to have a calm debate in this Parliament so that we can reach a solution that will actually advance women's rights. That is why, Madam President, with other groups, my group will take the initiative to continue this reflection where it should take place, namely in a parliamentary committee, in particular the Committee on Justice. It may be necessary to define modalities for examining how we can achieve a balanced and peaceful solution that will make it possible to make concrete progress in parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u115	Madam President, like my colleagues, I have taken note of this fourth opinion of the Council of State, which confirms the dilatory manoeuvre carried out by the three parties which had the opportunity to refer amendments to the Council of State. These are eight amendments, seven of which have not even been analysed by the Council of State, which considered itself to have already voted on these issues. With regard to the eighth amendment, the Council of State said that the amendment was superfluous and confusing. We see, therefore, that these amendments did not bring anything else, other than a flibus, to prevent the vote in plenary session and at the same time try to form a government, since only one party had decided to make it a question of government. We can see that this party has won, since the government agreement is very clear about it. Indeed, a committee of experts will be able to look at this issue in order to evaluate the legislation and try to reach a consensus, knowing that the abortion law is already being evaluated. In fact, an evaluation committee on the IVG presented its report to Parliament. We are therefore now able to vote in an informed manner, and there is no need to commission this matter, especially since this is done at the expense of women and their rights. As my colleague recalled, we celebrated the International Day to Combat Violence against Women on Wednesday. Indeed - the Istanbul Commission is very clear in this respect - forcing a woman to keep a pregnancy she wishes to stop is a form of violence against women. That is why I appeal to the parties that offend themselves from this violence: if you sincerely want to fight against them, make sure that every woman in this country can resort to the voluntary termination of pregnancy in good conditions, both from a legal and a health point of view! It's essential. It is also important, as democrats, that Parliament be able to vote without being taken hostage again to a government agreement. It is a matter of respect for the separation of powers. Parliament is free to do its work; the government does not have to dictate how it operates. I would also like to point out that my group has tabled a text aimed at limiting the use of reference to the Council of State, so that, after four attempts, Parliament must be able to vote. I call on colleagues to work in this direction. Therefore, no, we will not support the possibility of referring this text back to the Committee on Justice. Indeed, it has already been validated on several occasions. It is therefore now in plenary that we must vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the PVDA and the initiative that is being taken here. It must be quite confrontational for a number of parties which now belong to the majority to hear back what was said by the same parties before the summer and to compare that with what is happening now. In substance, I would like to say that the division between women and men is rather simplistic here. I think that a lot of women do not support the idea of this legislation. If it is permitted to say so, half of the potential victims of this legislation are women. It doesn't make them any better, to put it mildly. Having said that, I am very pleased when I hear Mr Laaouej say that this should go back to committee. I hear almost an echo of what we said before the summer, namely that this debate has not been finished and has not been conducted sufficiently. Mr Van Peel has regularly pointed this out in this hemisphere. Colleagues from PS and other parties who were rather temperate before the summer, I am pleased that the circumstances have provided for a moving insight and that you now agree with our view that there was insufficient debate on this matter and the N-VA now follows it. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u117	Madam President, I agree with the previous speaker. My party has always been very consistent in this dossier and has rightly said that the debate is not exhausted. I must say that I am incredibly worse at the abuse of the word women's rights in the discussion, because it has nothing to do with women's rights anymore. The need to change the text of the proposal drastically is the least that can be said about it. According to the text of the proposal, the deadline will be extended to 18 weeks and there will be full depenalisation, even if that deadline is exceeded. The period of reflection is to be drastically reduced from six days to 48 hours. That is a radical proposal against human life. That radical proposal has absolutely no support in Flanders. It must therefore be sent back to committee, as we asked for before the summer. I am equally pleased with the progressive understanding of a whole range of parties. We therefore support the request that the text be sent back to committee in order to review it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u118	I propose that you make an electronic count on the proposal to amend the agenda of the plenary meeting on 3 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u119	11 people voted in favour of amending the agenda and 105 voted against. There are no abstentions. The proposal to amend the agenda was rejected. The proposal to amend the agenda was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-26-55-plenair-ip072x.u120	The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 3, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday, 3 December 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
