ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents has asked me to give you the following new guidelines. For the oral questions, speaking time is 2 minutes and 30 seconds for the question and 2 minutes and 30 seconds for the Minister's reply. Then there is the possibility of a one-minute reply for the questioner. The government may also have one minute to answer an additional question. We will test that new system today. I propose that we show a little flexibility and bring together the question and the answer in five minutes. I hope everyone will stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u2	Minister, a Strategic Safety and Prevention Plan (SSP) is a tool for municipalities to implement prevention policies. The implementation of the PSSP is the result of a local safety diagnosis which allows, by means of a precise methodology, to analyse the strengths and weaknesses of safety and prevention at the local level. In order to implement this plan, an agreement is supposed to be concluded between the Minister of the Interior and a municipality. It is in the form of general, strategic and operational objectives and is oriented towards results to be achieved at the end of the period of validity of the Convention. In addition, a financial allocation is granted as an intervention in the costs arising from the implementation of the agreement. These PSSPs originally concluded from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017 were extended in 2018 and 2019. However, it is up to me that cities and municipalities do not have news about PSSPs normally coming to term. Minister, is this lack of information for cities and municipalities about the implementation of their completed PSSP normal? Can municipalities wishing to be part of the dynamic still apply for it? Can those who have a PSSP change their goals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u3	Mr Senesael, the Royal Decree on the extension of the Strategic Security and Prevention Plans 2018–2019 to 2020 was published on 15 July 2019 at the Belgian Monitor. In the same month of July 2019, the municipalities affected by this extension received the information by e-mail, which was posted on the website www.besafe.be, where it was published that their current Security and Prevention Plan was extended for a period of one year, due to the fact that the government is currently in day-to-day business. In July and September, these municipalities also received information by e-mail that the administrative arrangements would soon be published and transmitted. Pending this, the municipalities benefiting from a plan were informed that the provisions applicable for the 2018-2019 cycle would be largely valid for this one-year extension. The ministerial decree adopting the administrative provisions will soon and certainly continue to be published and disseminated this year. In the meantime, the municipalities should not hesitate to contact my administration, which will keep them informed of what to do. In order to answer your questions more fully, there is therefore no possibility of adding new beneficiary communes here. We keep the same ones as in the 2018–2019 cycle and, on the other hand, as in the previous cycle, the municipalities concerned will have the opportunity to update their objectives, which had been indicated to them by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u4	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the comprehensiveness of his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u5	Minister, we know that the Tihange 1 nuclear reactor has been shut down since 31 December, until July. It's a planned stop. My question is about the unexpected halt on Wednesday 4 December. It would appear that the shutdown was due to a failure in the pumping system of a secondary circuit of the non-nuclear part of the plant. My questions flow from it. Is it possible to confirm that the failure came from a pumping system? What was the role of this system? How was this incident reported on the INES scale? Is this problem common on this reactor? If so, how many times has he already presented himself to Tihange 1 in particular? Was the malfunction on a pump comparable to the malfunction on the Tihange 2 reactor? Are there other pumps that can cause similar dysfunction at nuclear power plants in Belgium? Is there a correlation between these incidents and the year period? The Tihange 1 reactor is one of the oldest in Belgium since it was commissioned in 1975. Is there a correlation between the age of the reactor and this anomaly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u6	Dear colleague, this is a malfunction on a microprocessor that manages the control system for pumps that supply steam and water generators. An automatic shutdown of the reactor followed. Automatisms and automatic shutdown controls worked correctly. The reactor was stabilized in hot shutdown safely. The analysis of the INES (International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale) led to a ranking below the INES scale, i.e. at level 0. This is a problem that occurs for the first time in Tihange 1. In the current state of root cause research, there is no correlation between the Tihange 1 event and the reactor age. This age is not included in the root causes of the event.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u8	Minister, through SNCB staff, travellers and a rather rare newspaper article, we find that illegal immigrants and transmigrants are increasingly using the train to move around. At the end of last year, 28 transmigrants were arrested at the Berchem station. There was also a similar case in Kortrijk and there were incidents in Countries. I do not have to tell you that, unfortunately, the black riding of migrants is also associated with antisocial behaviour and insecurity. This creates frustration and resentment among the staff and the classic travelers, the commuters. For us, it is clear that more, more intensive and targeted control actions are required, such as controls on drug traffic between Antwerp and Roosendaal or Liège and Maastricht. At the end of last year there were specific checks on track running; intensive cooperation between different services then paid off. Minister, are you working with your colleagues responsible for SNCB and for Justice to deal with the problem in a coordinated manner? That seems to me to be very important. If so, what measures are on the table? Especially, who will take the initiative? Is that in the Federal Railway Police SmPC? Is that with the SNCB or the Foreign Office? Or is there an explicit coordination? What agreements were reached with the Ministers responsible for Justice and Foreign Affairs in order to arrive at an effective policy of prosecution or expulsion of migrants arrested on the SNCB public transport network? It is also not rare for people to be picked up at such a check-up and take the same train the day after at the same time and place. This, of course, only increases frustrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u9	The policy on transmigration, including in cooperation with the federal railway police, which I will always maintain, is aimed at achieving an absolute deterrent effect on transmigration and at tackling traffickers in a rigorous and firm manner. Transmigration is and remains an absolute priority for me, for which I work with all the partners involved to take concerted action. I do so in consultation with the Minister for Mobility and the SNCB itself. For example, the Federal Railway Police is in close contact with SNCB, which is a privileged partner, and participates in the exchange of information at regional and operational meetings. The Federal Railway Police, under the auspices of the Federal Police Directors-Coordinators, also participates in the actions organised by the Federal Police and coordinates efforts on the problematic railway lines. In addition, the teams of the Belgian railway police organise targeted actions on trains. They do so on their own initiative alongside ordinary patrols. In fact, I have been able to verify these actions personally a number of times, including in the North Station and even on SNCB's rolling stock. Finally, I can state that the judicial police are closely involved in the preparation and the following investigations. The cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Office is carried out according to the agreements made and is not changed, regardless of whether transmigrants are held on a train or elsewhere. All applicable legal provisions shall apply to each individual case of the transmigrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is partly encouraging. Nevertheless, it will be particularly important to strengthen one or more teeth and to intensify the controls, so that the chances of getting caught are increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament 55002067C by Mrs Zanchetta has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55002095C by Mrs Jadin has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u12	Mr President, Minister, on 4 December I asked you about the spent fuel pencils leaking from Tihange and Doel. You indicated that an inventory of 215 unsealed pencils had been drawn up for all Belgian reactors. As a result of this information, I come back with more specific questions. Minister, how are the unsealed pencils distributed between the different deactivation pools of each reactor? It would be interesting to understand how some reactors may have a potentially higher concentration of unsealed pencils, and others less? How many crayons are there in Tihange and Doel? This would allow us to understand whether there is a disparity between the two nuclear sites. What are the causes of leak loss? Is it due to anomalies in the manufacture of fuel crayons? The media had revealed in 2012 the presence of a leak in the Tihange 1 deactivation pool. This leak was not intended to be repaired, but to be managed by a water-recovery system. If my information is good, I believe that this leak has never really been repaired since then. Are other deactivation pools leaking or is it the only leaking pool? Can you indicate for each unit the levels of radioactivity in the primary cooling system of the reactor and that of the deactivation pools?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u13	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, the complete inventory contains 215 "unsealed crayons" in the deactivation pools of the seven Belgian units. All these units are affected in a different way, but there is no causal link between unsealed pencils and reactors. There are 20, 6 and 43 in Doel 1 and 2, Doel 3 and Doel 4, respectively. There are 73, 38 and 35 swimming pools in Tihange 1, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3, respectively. There are no swimming pools in the storage building in Tihange. These intightnesses can have several origins. The main reason for this problem is the presence of migrant bodies which, despite the anti-debris grilles present at the foot of the assembly, reach the level of the fuel sheaths, cling to them and end up causing drills by repeated vibrations. There are also a few cases of manufacturing defects. It should be noted that there have been no fuel crayons detected in the last eight years, both in Doel and Tihange. This is particularly the result of the application of international good practices. With regard to the pool of units, the nuclear safety authorities are in a position to announce that a specific action plan has been drawn up by the operator to monitor the evolution of these leaks and to adopt measures to reduce or remedy them. According to the data available to them, the nuclear safety authorities state that the leak with the highest flow is no longer detectable and that there is no more leakage in Tihange 2. It should be noted that any leakage of water is captured by controlled circuits and that water from this type of leak is not released into the environment. There are no leaks in the storage building's swimming pools. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FACN) does not have this information, which may vary from day to day. There are, however, maximum permissible limits, in terms of concentration of activity in the primary circuit and in the swimming pools, in the technical specifications of the reactors. It is the operator's responsibility to monitor the actual values of the activity concentration and to ensure that the prescribed limits are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u14	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Soors' 55002120C was postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u16	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that, on the margins of the Jupiler League match against Saint-Trond in Charleroi on 24 November 2019, plainclothes policemen arrested young French-speaking people who had come to the counter to obtain places for the meeting, during which a police officer told them: "There is only one language in Belgium, it is Flemish". These policemen refused to buy tickets for the neutral gallery and he was followed by an administrative arrest after a fairly muscular identity check. Such slippages seem to me to be an abuse of authority. Article 34(1) of the Police Function Act of 5 August 1992 provides that police officers "may check the identity of any person if they have reasonable grounds to believe, on the basis of his or her behaviour, that he or she is being sought, tried to commit an offence or is preparing to commit an offence, that he or she may disturb or disturb public order". In this context, I find it totally inappropriate, if not offensive, to say anything about the use of languages. Minister, have these facts been reported to you? If so, will an investigation be conducted, at least within the P Committee? What action, if any, will be taken? In general, are there regular instructions to the police on their powers, but also on the limits of their powers, in particular to avoid such abuse of authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, on the occasion of the STVV football match with Charleroi on 24 November 019, the "combi" rules were applicable. At the beginning of the game, three Charleroi fans came to the visitors' counter but were unable to buy tickets due to the "combi" rules. They were arrested by the police in both French, English and Dutch. As this is an offence under the football law, initially they left the premises. Shortly thereafter, they were found up to the Charleroi buses and were intercepted again and ordered to leave. This time, French-speaking Charleroi supporters were even involved in the discussion. One of the three supporters was still clearly opposed to the instructions of the agents present. In view of the offences under the football law and the persistent disturbance to public order, the person concerned was arrested administratively. The minutes concerning the administrative arrest have been drawn up. The interested party reported another version of the facts in the French-language media. It should be noted, however, that it was treated correctly at all times in different languages. The facts therefore do not support this version and the legislation has always been properly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u18	Mr.Minister, thank you for informing us about these facts and for telling us that the version relayed by the press was not necessarily true. Still, in your opinion, football offences have been committed, but I have not heard you clarify the nature of them. So I think it's interesting to get to know it. In this way, we will be able to determine whether there has been abuse of authority, regardless of the language in which insults have been made or not, even if the arrest appears to have been carried out in three languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u19	Mrs Rohonyi, I propose to provide you with further written answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u20	It's perfect. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u21	Minister, federal police detectives who drive into a low-emission zone with their outdated and thus polluting service car must pay for their own day pass. Sometimes they have to wait over a year for the refund. Low emission zones or LEZs already exist in Antwerp and Brussels. This is the case in Ghent from 1 January 2020. Day passes cost 10 to 35 euros, also for the police. If the detectives don't buy them, they get a fine of up to 350 euros. The money for the day passes they have to advance out of their own pocket. Sometimes they get paid back after two months. In other cases, they have to wait over a year for it. How many anonymous federal police cars are too polluting for the LEZs? What arrangements do you provide for a solution to be found?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u22	In 2018, the federal police received five low-emission fines, which were subsequently removed because the vehicles met the conditions. In 2019 it was about one fine. This was also deleted because the vehicle in question met the conditions. All federal police vehicles intended for operational purposes have access to the low-emission zones either because they meet the emission conditions or are on the so-called whitelists, so they meet the conditions of Article 37 of the Road Code which treats priority vehicles, or have a police logo and stripe and are identifiable as a police vehicle. Of the 3,772 vehicles that the federal police counted on 1 January 2020, 425 are not allowed into the low-emission zones of Brussels, Antwerp and/or Ghent. This concerns vehicles used for administrative or logistical purposes. The federal police have taken the necessary measures to ensure that, as far as possible, only vehicles that meet the emission conditions and which are least polluting enter a low-emission zone in order to avoid requiring staff to apply for a daily pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that the so-called infringements of last year have been put right. It remains surprising that 425 vehicles from the police are not allowed to enter Brussels, Antwerp and Ghent. That's unbelievable. Sometimes, I think, the public interest must be at the forefront of a different interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u24	I can only endorse your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament 550 02268C and 550 02275C by Mrs Zanchetta are postponed to her question. Debates of the European Parliament 55002304C by Mrs Soors and 55002479C by Mr Colebunders were also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the introduction and transport of detained persons and detainees. At present, this is covered by the controversial and unclear ministerial MFO-1 letter of 2001. This was considered by the integrated police working group, but there was also a disagreement about the division of tasks between local and federal police in the new draft text. However, this disagreement has major implications for the local police, including for the HEKLA police area, of which I myself may be the chairman. The Antwerp Police Zone has announced that it will cease its service as of 1 March 2020, which means that the police area of HEKLA, not Antwerp, will suddenly have to be responsible for leading detained persons. The current controversial MFO-1 again places this responsibility on our PZ HEKLA. On top of that, the integrated police working group wrote in its new draft text that the police zones are responsible for the transfer of prisoners in the event of a shortage of capacity by the SAB, which implies that the local police areas will be subject to additional burdens. The same draft also states that the surveillance of detainees will no longer be carried out by the DGSI, but by the SAB. Due to the presence of a university hospital in the territory of HEKLA, this would also be a possible addition to the workload of the local police area, including night shifts, as the DAB will no longer do so. My questions to you are as follows, Minister. Are you aware of the local problems and the cessation of service by the police area of Antwerp? If so, how do you anticipate this? Do you believe that it is currently unclear who should be responsible for the supervision and supervision of the transfer of prisoners? Do you intend to do something about this? Do you think that local police should not be entrusted with law enforcement in the courts and courts and with police duties in the transfer of prisoners? What action will you take in this regard? Finally and more generally, do you believe that the MFO-1 should be revised? If so, when and how? How will you achieve a more workable division of tasks, in which both local and federal police can agree? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u27	Mr President, Mr Metsu, earlier a protocol agreement was concluded between the Antwerp police area, the ten police zones and the five federal services. In that agreement it was stipulated that the police area of Antwerp was responsible for the detention of the detained persons, the transport to the palace of justice and the preliminaries in the courthouse. With the creation of the Security Directorate (DAB), the Chief of Police of the Antwerp Police Zone decided to cancel the existing protocol from 1 November 2019. After consultation, this date was postponed to 1 March of this year. The assignments concerning prisoners, including in the future the surveillance of prisoners in hospitals, will always be carried out by the DAB, also at night and during the weekend. For the contracts relating to the persons detained, the current Ministerial Directive on federal contracts MFO-1 in point 3.1, second, states that these contracts are carried out by "the police department responsible for the investigation or investigation, or designated for this by the magistrate'. On the other hand, in the explanatory memorandum of the Law on the SGB of 27 November 2017, it is stated that, in addition to the arraignment of detained persons for the competent magistrate and the renunciation for the purpose of carrying out the investigations and the tasks which the police department in charge of the investigation continues to carry out in principle, all other tasks listed in Article 23 of the Law on the Police Office (WPA) can still be carried out by both the local and federal levels. Orders relating to the detainees shall be addressed to the SAB; local police shall only provide assistance if there is no other possibility, such as urgent missions, staff shortages and force majeure. Currently, the MFO-1 is being re-examined within the federal police. The federal police are working closely with local police to find the most pragmatic solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u28	Minister, the last element in particular, namely that it is being reviewed, is encouraging. The rest of the answer I absolutely understand, but it is a bit conditional: the verb "can" is already present. You say that it can be done by both federal and local police, and that sometimes causes confusion or any argument between the two. That needs to be taken into account in the future, so that it is better aligned. Then we will be able to organise the local police areas better. We're already being teased or bored with the whole HyCap story. In addition, we also have a shortage of employees at the moment. The vacancies are open, but it also turns out to be a bottleneck profession, so the workload in the local police zones is getting enormous. Things like what I'm proposing and what you're thinking about can give some breathing space to the local police zones. Thank you for following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u29	Mrs Matz, there have been instructions from the Conference of Presidents: there is a limited time to ask the oral questions, namely 2 minutes 30 seconds. You have three questions, I don't know if we can multiply your speaking time by three.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u30	I'll ask them all at once, one after the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u31	It'll be the easiest. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u32	Minister, the three questions concern emergency areas. The Walloon government's policy statement states that its objective is to "ensure that the provinces gradually take over (and fully by the end of the legislature at the latest) the communal contributions to the financing of relief zones in order to relieve all municipalities and to concentrate the role of the provinces in a specific area while reducing the residual volume of action of the provinces. Governors will be able to play a role in piloting emergency areas like the one they play in security." In the Committee of the Interior of 11 December 2019, you indicated that you were in contact with the Minister-President of the Walloon Region on this subject. What is the status of this case? Pierre-Yves Dermagne, Walloon minister of local authorities, had told the Walloon Parliament on 10 December 2019 that he would address the subject of this reform at the concertation committee on 18 December 2019. Has the consultation committee put on the table the transfer of funding to the provinces? What decisions have been made in this regard? You also indicated that the position of the Walloon government in this matter differs from that of the Flemish government. The trend in the Flemish Region is towards a greater limitation of the powers of the provinces. What is the federal government's position on this issue? In addition, according to several statements by Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne, the Walloon Region's objective would be to oblige the provinces and municipalities to make use of section 67 (3) of the Civil Security Act, which provides that in some cases the municipal allocation may be reduced in proportion to the provincial allocation. This article finally allows the provinces to finance the areas instead of the communes. Does the Walloon Region have the competence to make the use of article 67 (3) mandatory for municipalities and provinces? Finally, the reform of the transfer of relief zone funding to the provinces suggested by the Walloon government also involves the piloting of the areas by the provincial governor. Since funding is totally provincial, it also implies a greater political weight of the provincial council on the decisions of the zones. However, the province currently has only one representative within the zones. Minister, are you considering amending the Civil Security Act to allow the provinces to take on a larger role if provincial funding becomes more important, as the Walloon Region wishes? Are you considering giving the governor a more important role in piloting the areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u33	Dear colleague, I have read the Walloon government's regional policy statement, in particular the part on the financing of relief zones by the provinces and the role of governors in piloting the zones. At the consultation committee on December 18, 2019, the federal government took note of the position of the Walloon government. It was agreed that the latter would provide more explanations to enable the federal government to make a decision. Section 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides for the possibility for the provinces to contribute to the financing of relief zones and the possibility, if necessary, of reducing the communal allocations to the area in proportion to the provincial allocation. Under the Special Act on Institutional Reform of 8 August 1980, subject to a few exceptions, the Regions are competent to regulate the composition, organization, competence and functioning of provincial and communal institutions and supra-municipal communities. It is not my responsibility to comment on regional competences. Provincial governors are already key security actors. They are responsible for security and order in the territory of the province and have general responsibility for coordination in matters of civil security. The Act of 15 May 2007 also gave them guardianship jurisdiction over relief areas. Further information from the Walloon authorities is needed before the questions concerning a possible amendment of the law of 15 May 2007 can be answered. Moreover, since this law applies throughout Belgium, it is necessary to examine the impact of Walloon applications on the other regions of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u34	Minister, I note that we are no more advanced. I will not fail to come back to you as soon as the Walloon authorities have given you more information to see to what extent an amendment to the law is necessary, depending on the extent of the jurisdiction they wish to give to the provinces and provincial councils. I will patiently wait for the Walloon government to provide you with the relevant information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u35	Minister, on 23 December 2019 two more ambulances were attacked in Antwerp. They were incompetent for at least five days. The sector has long been calling for measures that are not going to happen. It is not an isolated case, because every year 2,300 aid workers are the victims of aggression, especially in the cities of Brussels, Antwerp and Ghent. In Antwerp there would even be three reports per week. One of the ambulancemen in question wore a sting vest of 500 euros, which he had paid for entirely himself. The industry demands that the government make such sting-proof vests available to all ambulances and, of course, that there be stricter penalties for violence against aid workers. Mr. Secretary, do you confirm the facts cited? Can the government provide stab-resistant vests to the aid workers? If so, by when could that be possible? Can the government discuss stricter sanctions for violence against aid workers and police forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u36	The problem of aggression against emergency workers, particularly fire and ambulance workers, is of course known to me and concerns me. It is an unacceptable social phenomenon, for which I, together with the fire department, the trade unions and my government colleagues, will find a decisive approach and a solution. The area commanders of the fire department were already called upon to encourage their personnel to file a complaint with the police if they become victims of aggression. Local police have also been asked to ensure accurate registration of such facts. As far as federal police are concerned, the registration of aggression against aid workers in the nomenclature of the ANG database has been adapted in order to provide more specific quoting. This will therefore provide more detailed figures in the future, which can be further analysed so that other actions can be taken. The training offer for the firefighters and the paramedics was expanded in 2019 with a course on how to deal with aggression. Making every firefighter administrator of one's own well-being is necessary. Therefore, certain behavioural changes should be encouraged and a sustainable sense of individual responsibility should be created. Prevention is also done through training and information for workers. Therefore, in cooperation with industry representatives and at the request of trade unions, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security will shortly launch a awareness and response campaign for firefighters themselves. The campaign will be distributed in all the barracks of the country with the support and involvement of those responsible for the relief zones and the representatives of the sector. The prosecution policy does not fall within my competence, but I continue to urge my colleague in the Justice Department to continue to pursue violence against law enforcement. The wardrobe regulations of the paramedics are determined by the FPS Public Health, which falls within the competence of colleague De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. My question on prosecution policy and on adapted clothing for aid workers will, of course, be addressed to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health. I think we need to take more steps. It must not just be a matter of registering facts or yet another awareness campaign. These are all good measures, but I believe that the signal must also be given that something is really changing on the ground. Our aid workers deserve that, and they should be better protected. I also think that this is a fundamental task for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament 55002340C by Mrs Ponthier is postponed at her request. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55002350C and 55002351C by Mrs Van Camp are postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u39	Minister, my question follows an article in L'Echo on 31 December on a new market born in the United States: speculation about the dismantling of old nuclear power plants. I would like to ask you about the possibility of such an activity targeting our facilities in Doel and Tihange. Are you aware of the interest of some dismantling companies - possibly French - in the Belgian market? What position does the emergence of this new type of market inspire you? Which companies are likely to reduce decommissioning costs without affecting the safety and quality of decontamination? Finally, the management of decommissioning provisions by groups speculating on their ability to dismantle nuclear power plants at lower cost raises questions. What would happen if such companies moved to Belgium but failed to dismantle nuclear power plants at a reduced cost, to the point of bankruptcy? Who would then be required to complete the transaction and pay for it? I would be very curious to hear the opinion of the AFCN in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u40	Mr Cogolati, many of your questions relate to the potential impact in terms of dismantling costs and nuclear supplies. They relate to the responsibilities of ONDRAF, the national body for radioactive waste and enriched fissile material, and the Commission for Nuclear Supplies. Both come under the authority of the Minister of Energy. However, it should be noted that ONDRAF collects information on the decommissioning programmes for Belgian nuclear installations and verifies their financial and technical feasibility. The cost of such a project shall, moreover, be borne in full by the operator, who shall make the necessary provisions for that purpose. This operation is overseen by the Commission for Nuclear Supplies. With regard to the safety aspects related to dismantling, in Belgium, the monitoring of the safety and security of nuclear power plants, Class 1 facilities, including decommissioning projects, has been entrusted to AFCN, which relies on the technical subsidiary Bel V to carry out this mission. The primary responsibility for the safety of a facility remains with the operator. The operator is responsible, during the operation but also during the dismantling, for which the operator must also apply for authorisation to dismantle. When an operator wishes to transmit his authorization, and therefore his responsibility, whether during the operation or during the dismantling, the latter must apply to AFCN, in accordance with the procedure described in Article 5.4 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation. The AFCN will then review this application to determine whether the purchaser is in a position to comply with the conditions of authorization and the provisions of the regulations on protection against ionizing radiation. This procedure also provides for the ONDRAF to issue an opinion with regard to its powers. For AFCN, it is therefore imperative and essential that the safety and security of the installations remain guaranteed during operation, as well as during dismantling, regardless of the operator responsible for this dismantling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u41	Minister, I have also asked Mrs Marghem the same question for the field concerning ONDRAF. I am quite surprised at the similarity of the answers. You assign all responsibility to the operator, therefore to ENGIE Electrabel. However, I do not think we should wait for an application from ENGIE Electrabel for authorisation concerning dismantling, or even a takeover by a company that would speculate on dismantling in Belgium, to lay down very clear rules, as you mentioned, today on how to dismantle a site as dangerous as a Category 1 nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut converted 55002507C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u43	Mr. Secretary, it's a hot item. We see that in Lokeren the first impetus was given. You call it a pilot project, but we read in the press that you already want to roll it out to other cities. Although the GBA gave twice a negative opinion on the fingerprint registration on the identity card and a research group at the KUL called the measure disproportionate and unclearly formulated, the fingerprint registration on our identity card is nevertheless introduced. Minister, there is still a procedure before the Constitutional Court on this measure. Would it not be better to wait for that ruling before you finally roll out this measure? A critical report was published by a research group at KUL. Your services said they weren't convinced by this study. Can you provide us with the concrete evaluation that your services made of this report? The current roll-out is a pilot project. What are the criteria on which your services will assess the roll-out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u44	Therefore, the following questions:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Kitir and Colebunders, Mrs Soors also had a question on the same subject. As stated in the questions, the Regulation (EU) 2019/1157 is now in force, which obliges all EU Member States to store citizens' fingerprints on the identity card as from 2 August 2021. I would like to stress once again that the registration of fingerprints from the age of 12 on residence permits and travel permits has already been in force since 2013. I really do not see any reason to wait for the fingerprinting on the identity card to be postponed until the deadline set by the EU. Delays would create problems in border controls and create confusion among the foreign authorities which grant Belgians access to their territory on the basis of that identity card. Since this has been applicable to travel passes and residence permits since 2012, it would be unreasonable not to adapt the identity card and to deliver a less secure document when the possibility arises. However, I would like to refer to an opinion of the Council of State: "In this context, the draft author's attention is drawn to the fact that the obligation to include fingerprints in Article 6 of the Law of 19 June 1991 was introduced by Article 27 of the Law of 25 November 2018 on various provisions relating to the National Register and the Population Register, which entered into force on 23 December 2018. Article 108 of the Constitution, which instructs the King to make the regulations and take the decisions necessary for the implementation of the laws, without ever being able to suspend the laws themselves or to grant exemption from implementation, implies that the King's "read: the Government "must take the necessary implementing decisions within a reasonable period'. As you know, the European regulation has now entered into force and is imposing a tight schedule on us. The policy was determined by the European Union and by a law adopted in this Parliament. The royal decree is the execution of that. Article 3.8 of the EU Regulation concerns the inclusion of special comments for national use. This Article does not provide for the possibility of amending other provisions, such as the age of 12 years of the Regulation. Mr Kitir, both Article 4 and the European regulation provide no exception on the basis of age. The exception only applies if it is permanently physically impossible to take fingerprints. This is counting for all ages. The King's report lists some possible examples, such as those for very elderly people. Mr Colebunders, I have already discussed the main points of the evaluation of the KUL research group at a previous committee meeting on 23 October, following your question No. 865. I therefore invite you to look into the committee's report to see to what extent the answer is congruent with what I am saying here today. The pilot phase shall be used to detect any necessary modifications to the software that could promote the production process. I'll put this on parole. It cannot be ruled out, but it is not yet the case. I understand, of course, colleagues and chairman, that in times of Facebook and Instagram, when people use their fingerprint to unlock their laptop, their mobile phone or their tablet, when supermarkets are considering making payments with a fingerprint, it is very important to be careful to jump with certain data. The addition of the fingerprints on the identity card therefore does not affect any privacy hype. Adding the fingerprints on the identity card is a pure necessity to prevent identity fraud, especially in the case of minors. Every day, we get reports of that. As Minister of Security, it is not my intention to wait until identity fraud is high enough or would exceed an acceptable level, nor is it my intention to wait until enough citizens are faced with identity fraud and the associated problems, which often drag on for years to come. Nor is it my intention to take action when it is too late. We are taking this initiative ahead of the fraudsters. For the safety of all of us, I would like to stay ahead of the fraudsters in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. People may be laughing about using their fingerprints for different apps or payments in different supermarkets nowadays, but that does not mean that the government has to protect people. I am convinced that, within a few years, privacy and its protection will be the subject of a major debate. You have explained why you think you should not wait for the advice of the Data Protection Authority. I support you in your story that combating fraud is important, but I think it would be much more efficient to wait for that advice, because what will you do if the opinion of the Data Protection Authority is negative? Will there be an adjustment, or is it the intention to leave it that way and to leave the advice beside you? As soon as we have the opinion in our hands, we will question you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u47	Mr Minister, I do not want to repeat myself, but we are fully following the concerns of the sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament 55002520C by Mrs Soors, 55002549C by Mr Toventors and 55002602C by Mrs Reuter were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 55002559C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u49	Minister, a few weeks ago we learned that twelve migrants in transit had been found in a cold truck near Hal. The police were warned by the Spanish driver who heard noise at the rear of the vehicle. Fortunately, it came back to us quite quickly that these migrants were in good health. Through this dossier, we come back to the question of transmigration, which is still well present in our territory. Minister, what follow-up has been reserved for these migrants in transit? Since January 2019, how many migrants in transit have been arrested in trucks? What follow-up have you been able to give to these arrests? Finally, have you been able to trace the smugglers of these migrants since they are the crux of the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u50	Mr Rigot, I can confirm that, on 10 January, twelve men were found by the police in a truck following information provided by his Spanish driver. Since the people involved – probably from Iraq and Iran – were unable to present valid identity papers and appeared to be illegally in Belgium, the police imposed administrative deprivation of liberty on them. A report for illegal stay was then drawn up. The alleged transmigrants were transferred to St. Mary's Hospital in Hal for medical examination. Four of them seem to be minors. The Aliens Office was informed and ordered the adults concerned to leave the territory. In the case of minors, the guardianship service was contacted. A report for trafficking in human beings has also been drawn up. I am not aware of the contents of the case, which is covered by the secrecy of the investigation. No evidence of smugglers was detected. The Federal Judicial Police has been notified of this. In 2019, the Belgian police intercepted a total of 8,853 transmigrants. It is the Aliens Office which decides on the continuation of these interceptions. Having said that, I do not hide from you that most are ordered to leave the territory before continuing their journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers, which satisfy me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u52	On December 18, it was International Migrants Day. The night before, the truckers of the Thieu motorway area were given the presence of the Belgian anti-trafficker arsenal. As part of Medusa operations aimed at trafficking in human beings, 1,000 police officers were mobilized. The press was invited to attend and was able to see the deployment put in place today. Minister, as part of Medusa operations aimed at trafficking in human beings, how many traffickers have you been able to stop since that is the crux of the problem? How many transmigrants have been arrested and what are the consequences of these arrests? Is your priority primarily to combat migration or to combat smugglers? Flanders has chosen to close some of the night car parks and to use private guardhouses. Do they have an impact on the federal budget? Is this ultimately a good option? Mr Laurent Coucke, divisional commissioner and coordinating director of the Hainaut, instead proposes simple arrangements such as cutting the trees on the parking lot, more lights, fences, cameras, changing the parking plan of the trucks and asking for additional staff for the road police. What is your position on his proposals? Do you intend to strengthen the capacity of the local police areas, which, as you know, are facing this difficult and problematic problem affecting the safety of transmigrants throughout the territory and highway areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u53	My colleague, I have made it clear that the fight against trafficking in human beings is a priority. There has never been a hunt for transmigrants, which does not mean, however, that nuisance, security and peripheral crime in the context of transit migration should not be adequately combated. During the period from 25 November to 25 December, some 160 transmigrants were intercepted during the coordinated police action Medusa. The response to these arrests should be sought from the Aliens Office. However, in the course of these actions, two suspected smugglers were caught in flagrante delicto. On the basis of these findings, additional judicial investigations have been initiated. Structural techno-prevention measures can contribute to a safer environment. Their implementation is the responsibility of the Regional Minister for Mobility. All field units can always request support through the existing support system. However, an increase in local police resources is not foreseen. But I am in constant contact with my colleagues at the regional level on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u54	Minister, I had no doubt for a moment that your priority was the fight against human traffickers. We must strengthen this struggle. Behind these obviously worrying situations for the safety of truckers, citizens and transmigrants is a human distress. We must make every effort, on all sides, to have a rational migration policy that is guaranteed and respectful of all. We must also, it is true, guarantee the safety of everyone. So I can only ask for more resources for our police, and especially for our local police, who are facing this first-rate mission. Today, they do not have the human and financial means to assume it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u55	Minister, I look forward to your answer. If your answer is much longer than the time you are allowed, you can also provide me with an extensive document.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u56	I will respond to your proposal and provide you with the more comprehensive information. In the context of the integrated approach and the integrated approach to intra-family and sexual violence, various initiatives have been taken, both at federal and regional level and at inter-departmental level. In order to strengthen the knowledge and expertise of the integrated police in the field of sexual violence against adults, a "road map of morals" has been disseminated. This was accompanied by a study day attended by a thousand policemen. The problem of intra-family and sexual violence and the quality of the reception of the victims are addressed extensively in the basic police inspector. A specific training was also developed, called "Removal of Victims of Sexual Violence." The issue of rape and awareness of the need for effective and adapted victim care is of course addressed. However, the various police schools have not limited themselves to this training to discuss the problem. For example, all victim care training courses organised should be highlighted. The integrated police participates in a chain-oriented approach to intrafamilial and sexual violence, including in the form of Family Justice Centers and the Care Centers after Sexual Violence. Three centres are currently active: in Ghent, Brussels and Liège. The aim is to extend these three centres and to create three additional centres. In these centres, sex inspectors are active who have received specialized training for the first care and in particular the interview of the victims of sexual violence. The aim of the centres is to provide a qualitative response to the victims of violence, with a view to reducing the dark number, which we have already discussed in this committee, and a better collection of traces of sexual violence. Finally, an evaluation has been carried out of the debrief concerning the audiovisual interview of minors. A new letter is currently being finalised which draws positive lessons from the technique of video interviewing. That is what I can tell you now, and I will deliver the rest in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u57	Mr President, Minister, it must remain a focus, because the problem is very broad. Justice has a job to do, but also the police. I look forward to a more detailed answer that will allow me to see where we stand with the implementation of all the measures announced in all those plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u58	Minister, a few weeks ago, you told us that cooperation between the federal police and the Aliens Office on migrants in transit had been strengthened. As a result of this reorganization, 40 places in a closed centre were released for illegal residents who commit crimes, including transmigrants. The 40 seats in question had been abolished at the time by Theo Francken and Jan Jambon to transform part of the building into a police station dedicated to transit migration. The idea was then to relieve local police by centralizing the management of administratively arrested migrants. The Franken-Jambon duo's scheme proved to be more restrictive for police areas, forced to transport those arrested to Steenokkerzeel. An assessment of the government's current affairs, which notes the failure of the scheme, therefore leads to the adoption of mobile units for the Federal Police/Foreign Office, which should provide local support to the police areas affected by transit migration. Mr Minister, has this assessment been carried out in consultation with the local police services, and in particular with the local police now concerned with the problem of transmigration? I hear that local police should no longer bring the transmigrants back to Steenookkerzeel. What are the solutions then for these local polices, deprived of dealing with transmigrants in distress in this winter period, and in the face of the citizens of the communes who put themselves in danger to help transmigrants or refuse to suffer from public order disturbances caused by transmigrants sleeping in the street, without minimum health conditions? As such, you received a letter from the municipality of Waremme, a commune in which I am an alderman. We are in great difficulty to manage the transmigrants who transit through our parking lots, hoping to reach Calais. Other municipalities have similar problems, particularly on the Barchon side. What is the action plan to help them, in addition to these forty places in the closed centre? What is this specific mechanism that strengthens collaboration between local police, the Federal Police and the Office for Foreigners? For what common and at what specific time? Thank you in advance for your answer which will certainly interest the citizens of Waremme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u59	Mr Echevin, the evaluation of the migrant administrative centre is carried out in consultation with all the partners concerned. A solution has been tested for six months and has proved to be sufficiently suited to the needs of assistance. The liberated capacity is therefore mobilized throughout the territory, depending on the evolution of the phenomenon of transmigration. For your perfect information, the migrants' administrative centre was intended for centralized processing only. Indeed, the police are neither a closed centre nor a reception centre. The guidance procedures for the persons in the area are unchanged. The December actions consisted of police operations stimulated and coordinated by the tandem formed by the governor and the director-coordinator (Dirco). At my particular request, operations have been intensified, while a judicial component has been systematically added. These actions last December were adapted to the real picture of the phenomenon in the provinces. The necessary police personnel are always assigned by local and federal police depending on the operations. In addition to general assistance, the federal police can also provide specific support such as a canine team, a MATTA team (mobile treatment team for transmigrants and asylum seekers) to assist in the treatment of intercepted migrants, or an aerial observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u60	Minister, I understand that theoretically, a panel of actions has been deployed. Unfortunately, I regret that this is not reflected on the ground. I know the difficulties, but they are primarily faced by local police and mayors, who must try to bring – and this is essential – a response to human distress. In this respect, I can only congratulate all the citizens who, at the gates of winter, have not chosen to fall back on themselves, but rather solidarity with these transmigrants. Another essential aspect is to ensure the safety of all. However, we do not have the means to guarantee it to truckers, transmigrants — who are prey to smugglers and traffickers in human beings — and to our fellow citizens. It is therefore urgent to provide structural answers to this situation, of which I am well aware, as you do, that it cannot be solved only by us, since it is a more general problem. That is why I invite you, Mr Minister, to coordinate the actions with your colleague Mrs De Block in order to develop appropriate, humane and realistic responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u61	Mr.President, Minister, the Act of 30 July 2018 provides the legal basis for the creation of the local integral security cells for radicalism, extremism and terrorism (CSIL-R). These are community-level consultation units aimed at preventing terrorist offences. During an oral question session, you indicated, on 17 October 2018, that we had 230 CSIL-R in 339 communes in Belgium. In other words, at the time 146 communes had not yet been included (39 in Flanders and 107 in Wallonia), with Brussels fully covered and the nine municipalities of the German-speaking Community. In view of the possible return of foreign fighters, it is crucial that each municipality be at least prepared for possible problems. Furthermore, it is my responsibility that the Walloon Minister of Local Authorities told the Walloon Parliament on 7 January that he intends to put in place a possible framework for the prevention of violent radicalism in the context of the creation and functioning of local integral security cells. The previous Walloon minister had already tabled a draft decree to that effect, but the opinion of the Council of State had largely called into question regional jurisdiction. Minister, has the number of these cells changed in the meantime? How is cooperation between the different components of these cells going? Have you received any criticisms about this? Have you been contacted by the Walloon Minister of Local Authorities about the establishment of a Walloon Decretal Framework directly or indirectly affecting the functioning of these cells? What do you think of this initiative? If he hasn't contacted you, do you intend to contact your Walloon counterpart? Do you think that the Regions are empowered to legislate in the framework of the creation, operation and organisation of the CSIL-R? Has the negotiation agreement with the entities been successful?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u62	Mr President, Mr Matz, the number of local integral security cells on radicalism, extremism and terrorism has changed since the last time you asked the question. There are now 418 municipalities with such a cell, 19 of which are fully covered in Brussels, 252 in Flanders and 147 in Wallonia. It should be noted that the working environment of each stakeholder within this unit still needs to be clarified. Because many of these stakeholders are at levels of authority other than that of the federal government, it is important to reach the cooperation agreement. The result, however, lies with the federated entities, which must validate the text drawn up jointly. With regard to the functioning of the centres, the goodwill of the participants is undeniable, but the process of the centres requires trust and clear definition of the roles of each. The Directorate-General for Security and Prevention regularly visits the requesting municipalities to help them implement the centres themselves. In addition, at the end of December 2019 the OCAM issued a vade-mecum on these centres, incorporating the general principles of operation. Finally, the Directorate-General for Security and Prevention will carry out an evaluation of the process of these centres this year and will analyse more precisely the interactions between the partners within these cells. You're asking me if the Walloon Minister of Local Authorities has already spoken with me. I met Mr Dermagne, but I did not have the opportunity to talk to him about this problem because other issues had to be dealt with. However, I am informed of his intervention. My services are ready to provide assistance and experience if necessary. The Walloon initiative seems relevant to me. Such a decretal initiative will certainly improve the functioning of these centres. However, this draft decree should not replace the cooperation agreement that I referred to earlier. It seems to me that the two aspects, the decretal initiative and the cooperation agreement, are useful in achieving the optimal functioning of these centres. We are acting here within the framework of shared competences. Clarification of the expected cooperation of each of the levels of power and the partners involved is highly desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. While it is indeed essential that these cells be created, and that their functioning be clarified accurately, particular attention should be paid to the need for over-skills. Indeed, the previous decree had been largely challenged by the Council of State on the distribution of powers; it called into question the regional competence to do so. As you say, we are part of shared competencies. The cooperation agreement and the decree are two essential elements, but they must each remain in their role.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u64	Minister, a cross-cutting approach to the fight against radicalism allows for a broad commitment and the mobilization of as many resources as possible at different levels of power. This is therefore an integral part of the change in culture and of the overall approach which it is necessary to adopt in the fight against the phenomenon of radicalisation. On 6 January last the Walloon Minister-President stated in the Walloon Parliament's committee that he had "written to the Federal Minister of the Interior so that Walloon actions are part of a national strategy to combat violent radicalism and that the measures that would be taken are really useful to the various departments responsible for this fight." Minister, have you received this letter from the Minister-President Wallon? What requests contained this letter? What did you say? Do you intend to develop a national strategy to combat violent radicalism, as requested by the Walloon Minister-President? What is the status of possible adaptation of the Radicalism Plan (Plan R) at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u65	Mrs Matz, I received this letter on 6 January 2020. It is under examination by my departments, in particular in consultation with the OCAM. A response will be provided as soon as possible. The national strategy to combat violent radicalism already exists. In particular, it is included in the June 2016 full security framework note and is still valid. Moreover, since 2015, Belgium has adopted a multidisciplinary approach to combating extremism and terrorism, summarized in the Radicalism Plan. Since then, the federated entities have participated in the national task force, the strategic body of Plan R, and in some national working groups. OCAM coordinates this framework and organises meetings between the various federal departments and federated entities on a regular basis to ensure an optimal flow of information. An update of Plan R is under way and it goes without saying that, given the multidisciplinary approach used to combat extremism and terrorism, all actors, including federated entities, are expected to participate in this update.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u66	Minister, thank you. It is clear that the fight against terrorism and radicalism is part of a comprehensive strategy to which each entity must contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u67	Minister, I'm still going to bother you with a question about guardianship. On 7 January last, Walloon Minister of Local Authorities, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, declared in the parliamentary committee of the Walloon Parliament that he intended to invite the Walloon government to "position itself on the exercise of guardianship over the relief areas and on the responsibility that the municipalities and the provinces will have to assume in the future in the management of these areas". The Walloon Minister justifies his willingness to subject the relief zones to regional administrative supervision, since, he says, "we are now in a blind legal angle at the level of guardianship, which poses a problem to all the speakers since the responsibilities of each one are not clear". Mr Minister, Article 6, §1, VIII, 8 of the Special Act on Institutional Reform of 8 August 1980 excludes from the area of regional competence "specific supervision in the field of firefighting, organised by law". The 2001 parliamentary proceedings relating to the special bill transferring various powers to the regions and communities conirms the only federal jurisdiction. The Minister of the Public Service and the Modernisation of the Administration stated on 22 June 2001 in the House's committee that "civil protection also continues to fall under federal jurisdiction, given that fire services remain federal". The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs did not say the opposite, on May 23, 2001, in the Senate Committee, saying that "civil protection also continues to fall under federal jurisdiction, given that fire services remain federal." Article 7 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 also transfers to the Regions the powers of guardianship over a number of local bodies, but not over relief areas. Are the Regions competent to impose any form of administrative supervision on the areas? If so, what form could this type of administrative supervision take? If such administrative supervision is not legally possible, do you intend to inform the Walloon Minister of Local Authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u68	Dear colleague, guardianship over local authorities is defined in article 7 of the Special Law on Institutional Reform of August 1980, which distinguishes ordinary guardianship from specific guardianship. Ordinary supervision over local authorities is exercised by the Regions. Furthermore, as you pointed out, article 6 of the same special law excludes from the area of regional competence the specific supervision in the field of firefighting organized by the law. The Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Security organizes a specific federal guardianship limited to compliance with the standards laid down in the same Law and in its implementing decrees, as well as in the Law of 19 April 2014 on working time for operational personnel in emergency areas. In its opinion on the draft law, which became the law of 15 May 2007, the Legislative Section of the Council of State held very clearly that "the Region, however, remains competent to exercise ordinary guardianship, on the one hand, over acts not expressly covered by the specific guardianship and, on the other hand, to monitor that acts subject to this specific guardianship are not contrary to other laws or to other aspects of the general interest than those for which specific guardianship has been established". The legislative section of the Council of State has held that relief zones, such as multi-municipal police zones, can be described as communal institutions within the meaning of article 162 of the Constitution and are therefore subject to the ordinary supervision of legality and respect for the public interest. While the Regions are undeniably competent to exercise ordinary control over the relief areas, they still need to organise their exercise. In Flanders, the decree of 3 June 2016 amended the communal decree in order to add an ordinary guardianship over the relief areas. The German-speaking Community, by a decree of 2 March 2015, added the relief zones in its decree of 20 December 2004 organizing the ordinary administrative supervision over the municipalities of the German-speaking region. Only the Walloon Region has not yet organised the exercise of its ordinary guardianship over the relief areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u69	Minister, if I understand correctly, the Walloon Parliament must adopt a decree to organise this tutelage. He cannot exercise it ex officio, but a decree is needed to organize it. I therefore assume that the Walloon authorities will pass through this decreed text before organising any guardianship over the relief areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u70	Funding for relief areas is provided for in article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. The article states: "As long as the ratio between the means of the municipal and federal authorities provided for under the law is not equal to one, the communes of an area will not, together, have to contribute more in real terms than their present contribution. The king determines, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, after having heard the representatives of the cities and municipalities, this ratio as at 31 December 2007 and the items of income and expenditure that are taken into account in calculating this ratio." I am reminded that, in the absence of a royal decree, the NAGE rescue zone brought an action against the Federal State for failing to comply with its legal obligations. If so, how does the federal state intend to respond to this remedy? What is the status of the drafting of this royal decree? Is your administration working on it? What are the avenues for reflection? You understand, Minister, that I am very much interested in this question for the simple reason that it is the financing of the relief areas and behind it the budgetary means of our communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u71	I can confirm that the municipalities forming the NAGE rescue zone which provides relief services for the municipalities of Andenne, Assesse, Eghezeeée, Fernelmont, Gembloux, Gèves, La Bruyère, Namur, Ohey and Profondeville have brought an action against the federal state for failure to implement section 67, paragraph 2, of the Act of 15 May 2007 on civil security. The summons was filed on 8 July 2019 before the Namur Court of First Instance. However, as the judicial proceedings are still ongoing, I cannot give any more opinion on this matter. I'll wait for the outcome of the court decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u72	I understand your answer, minister, but in fact, as a matter of day-to-day business, I would have liked to know whether the government intends to draft this royal order or not. I will not go further than this common fact, but I look forward to the new government being put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u73	However, it is difficult to question a government about its intentions, and this is all the more so when it is in day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u74	I would point out that, in this case, there is an absence of a royal decree that should have been issued in 2007.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u75	Yes, indeed!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u76	Minister, allow me to take over from the local authorities. Too often, the federal government takes decisions that create a heavy burden on the public authorities. In the area of civil security, the financial impact on the local government budget is greater each year. By way of illustration, the communal budget for the Luxembourg relief area is increasing by 15 per cent, despite the fact that the area is managed as a good family member. This is a significant increase which can be explained by the addition of various factors also mentioned in the hearings on the evaluation of civil security reform in the Committee on the Interior. These include the abolition of the Libramont Barracks, the implementation of the most rapid adequate aid, the cost of staff, the reform of the AMU and the establishment of an administration. Minister, what new measures could the federal government take to reduce the cost of funding for municipalities? You had spoken in committee about a change in the rules of adequate aid the fastest. What about it? It is now essential that the federal government adopt measures to reduce the financial pressure on our local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u77	Mr Arens, the amendment to the Royal Decree dealing with the fastest appropriate aid you are referring to is not intended to save money. The amendments proposed by the ad hoc working group set up in the Committee accompanying civil security reform aim at a better match between resources and needs. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, I propose that you send it to me in writing, given the quantitative nature of the figures requested and the fact that the analysis required by my services within a particularly short period of time was not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u78	I thank the minister for his response. I shall not fail to address the written question to him immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u79	Mr President, Minister, the Arlon-Attert-Habay-Martelange police area is very often on the steep rope, for lack of manpower. The reality of the land at the Saint-Sylvestre in Arlon has shown shortcomings in the absence of sufficient staff. As a reminder, fifteen police officers had to take 16 hours in a row to dislodge a hundred partyers without being able to rely on the federal police that was already being sought in the big cities. This shortage of staff would be explained for the following reasons. First, the KUL standard does not take into account the reality of the terrain in determining the number of personnel, which is reduced to 95.5 instead of 127. Secondly, diseases, absences and short-term work do not make it possible to mobilise the theoretical totality of the workforce. In addition, the recruitment process and, in particular, the length of training delay the recruitment of recruits. Finally, the evaluation of the Federal Police Optimization Act showed that, due to a shortage of federal police personnel, police areas could not rely on the federal police force, but also had to assist it. Minister, I'm pulling the alarm bell. The shortage of staff should be filled in order to ensure the safety of our citizens throughout the country and, in particular, in this border area which is mine. With this in mind, what solutions do you envisage to increase security in this area? What new measures do you intend to take to ensure that it is guaranteed throughout the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u80	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Arens, all police areas are interviewed each year by the Federal Police Personnel Directorate about their operational personnel needs. They must indicate whether they wish to maintain, increase or reduce the staff environment. The information collected is integrated into the recruitment plan of the Federal Police. Then, police zones can open seats for operational members and CALOG five times a year. Each aspirant – Inspector, Senior Inspector and Commissioner – can also already participate in the current mobility cycle before the end of their training and be appointed to the police area after graduation. Areas may open posts for inspectors in the context of aspiring mobility, if they have not found a suitable candidate during the regular mobility cycle. Aspirants inspectors can apply for aspiring mobility before being appointed as soon as they graduate in a police area. In addition to aspiring mobility, there is also the possibility for a police area to recruit a candidate inspector directly before he or she even starts training. After graduation, he was immediately appointed to the police area. Various initiatives are being undertaken within the Recruitment and Selection of Federal Police Personnel Branch to increase the number of candidates. First of all, fast track – which you know – are organized. Such a selection took place last June for the police area Arlon-Attert-Habay-Martelange. The initial need that had been expressed required five commitments. Eleven winners finally passed the selection procedure. A new fast track for the same area is already planned for this year. Second, there is increased collaboration between local police areas and federal police services to make recruitment a shared responsibility, for example, by investing together in information sessions or open houses. These events also provide an opportunity to get an explanation and engage in a dialogue with police officers on the ground on daily experiences in police areas. Finally, it involves investing in other recruitment channels and positioning the police as an attractive employer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u81	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer while pointing out that it is not obvious to find many candidates in a region where most workers cross the border to work in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg where pay and working conditions are often more interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaut's point of order was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55002703C by Mr Thiébaut is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u83	Mr. Secretary, recently, Vias recommended privatising speed controls. You informed us that you would like to take that recommendation and examine it. Firstly, the trade unions expressed their opposition to the privatisation of that particular task as early as 2015 at a hearing. According to them, privatisation would lead to a loss of quality, a profit motive and would also be detrimental to working conditions. Do you no longer consider these arguments applicable? Do you consult with the social partners before making such statements? Secondly, the debate on privatisation is currently mainly about administrative police tasks. Do you not think that the objective should be to keep as many operational tasks as possible in the hands of the police? Can you give your views on the privatisation of operational police tasks? Thirdly, the aim of the measure would be to increase the resources available for alcohol controls. Today, however, the police unions of the road police are mainly complaining about the time they spend on other tasks. How do you intend to ensure that the privatisation of speed controls will have a positive impact on the number of alcohol controls? Fourthly, it is well known that the police have been struggling for some time with a shortage of staff and resources. That deficit seems to weigh on the key tasks debate. Should speed checks be carried out in any case by the private sector or should a privatisation measure be seen in the light of staff shortages? Finally, if the staff shortage were the main motive for privatisation, would it not be better to resolve this before you subcontract tasks to the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u84	Mr Colebunders, the police forces have not been idle in looking at, doctoring and putting into practice possible solutions to the problem of speeding offences, together with other departments. In 2016, my colleague, the Minister of Justice, started the Cross-Border Enforcement project, with a thorough optimisation of the administrative process linked to the identification of speeding offences. As a result, the tasks of the police are limited to determining the offences and identifying the offender. The Cross-Border Enforcement project also involves a thorough automation, a call centre and a website for the offender. Moreover, the regional processing centres handle most of the speeding offences. The 2015 hearings, to which you refer, date from before the optimisation process. The CFCs are already entering their tenth year and the accumulated experience has led to greater effectiveness and efficiency. Moreover, in this context and with the well-known expansion of speed enforcement facilities, new software is being developed that can deal with infringements better and faster. We must not forget, however, that, when speeding offences are identified, there are also legal acts requiring the consultation of police databases and subsequent legal acts, for which the competence lies solely with the police. The capacity created by outsourcing administrative work can, of course, also be used for the benefit of operational tasks. The fight against alcohol in traffic remains, of course, a permanent focus. In my opinion, a choice of privatisation should not be driven by a possible temporary shortage of staff, but should be carefully considered in the light of who bears what responsibilities. I am certainly in favour of taking a constructive look at what other partners can support the police forces in the means or ways in which they can carry out their legal tasks. The modalities, the legal framework and the conditions must always be thoroughly examined. I believe that we will have to do the necessary legislative work. It is an effective way of carrying out certain tasks which one might call common police tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u85	Thank you, Minister. We already agree on one thing: the reason for privatising must not be the shortage of staff. I think it is quite clear that we must deal with this first. How we should do that, we want to find solutions just like you. We have plenty of experience in privatisations. In the long term, those real quality losses can lead to the job being lost. There may be discussions later on in the area of wages, among other things. In the long term, we do have questions about the privatisation of certain tasks. In our view, speed controls are one of the core tasks that the police must remain and should not be a source of profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic093x.u86	Mr Vanden Burre is not here. His question No. 55002721C expires. Mr Verduyckt is not here either. His question No. 55002722C also expires.
