ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u1	Mr President, it is good to see that there are also committees that start on time. We're not used to that. Mr Minister, I have a brief question on a local matter, which, however, causes a great deal of annoyance to us, Kempenaars. It concerns the lack of connection on the train network between Herentals and Lier. Many Kempenaars suffer when they track from or to work. Many Kempenaars depend on rail transport. We are a region with 500,000 inhabitants. Many people make the effort to take the train, including to be able to work during the train journey. It is therefore frustrating that there is no Proximus connection on a large part of the route. I don't know if you're familiar with the Kempen, but it's not about a corner of it. It's about an important axis. All connections from the Kempen, and even a part from Limburg, follow that route. Are you and Proximus aware of this? If so, what actions are you planning to improve?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u2	I'll start with a confession. I'm a fan of the Kempen. I'd love to go there. I now come to your question. Proximus has made analyses. The coverage is indeed getting weaker at some points of the route. That has to do with the planting of the green, of the trees, which obstruct or disrupt the signal. They weaken the radio signal, which effectively enables a bad connection to be established. The real issue is that the type of environment does not allow the installation of additional infrastructure, such as cell towers. In the short term, therefore, this problem cannot be solved. Proximus is aware of the need for a solution and, together with the railway companies, looks into the possibility of other solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u3	Minister, I am pleased that you are happy to come to the Kempen and know our region as well. I am also very pleased that you are familiar with the problem. There are also other regions where there is a lot of greenery. So there may be solutions. I would like to thank you and Proximus for looking for alternatives that can be applied in the short and medium term to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u4	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55008035C and 55008038C by Mrs Farih are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u5	Mr President, Minister, Facebook and Instagram, both from the same house, have informed their users and advertisers that they will specifically remove pictures, photos and videos of Black Piet in our country and the Netherlands as reported to them. So the social media provider installs a system where one group of users can tell another group of users for an image that she doesn't like. Facebook and Instagram would have spoken to more than sixty organisations from different countries, who often only represent themselves, but certainly not with the democratic political representation in Flanders or the Netherlands, so much is clear. For me, this amounts to gross censorship and, as far as Black Pete is concerned, to an attack on our traditions, in the name of a far-reaching political correctness. I certainly believe that Black Piet should continue to be part of our centuries of Sinterklaas tradition in the Low Countries. Minister, when you were a Member of the European Parliament, you made the point that Facebook should become more transparent about how it determines what we see in our timeline. In front of the press, you said: "It cannot be the intention for technology companies to become the arbitrators of what we think. Big Tech can't decide how we think." That is a statement from you that I fully support. Minister, what is your opinion on this arbitrary censorship on social media? Are you judging this? Do you share our view that these companies should respect our constitutional rights and freedoms and our cultural specificity? Will you build in legal instruments to counter such censorship by private companies as Facebook? Are you considering protesting at the companies in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u6	Mrs Pas, I have not changed my mind in that regard. It is not the first time that there is a fuss because certain content is removed by social media platforms. A few months ago there was also a discussion about artistic nudity and others. Ultimately, there is a need for transparency. These companies must act within the limits of Belgian and European law, but also within the limits of existing human rights treaties. It is also important that this discussion fits in with a broader debate on the removal of really harmful content on social media. There too, fundamental human rights are sometimes violated. Then, of course, there must be the possibility to act against it and to be able to quickly remove such content. The debate is currently being held at European level within the framework of the future Digital Services Act. In the case of illegal and harmful content, it is important to distinguish between the two types of content. One is really in breach of national law and the other is legal, but perhaps hurting another. In Belgium, two elements are put forward as very important. Firstly, there is the balance between the various fundamental rights involved, such as the right to freedom of expression, the right to information and the right to non-discrimination. Secondly, there is the responsibility of the platforms in relation to certain obligations regarding transparency and the rapid removal of certain content, if it is really in breach of legislation. It remains Belgium's two spearheads in the European debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think your position is clear. This is currently being discussed at European level. I have not heard that we can expect anything concrete at national level immediately. I am pleased that you acknowledge that it is a fundamental problem. This week the page of Voorpost with 15,000 followers was removed. The page of Flemish Front with 25,000 or 26,000 followers was taken offline in mid-September following a banner saying: "I will ride along with the anti-Vivaldi coalition protest ride next Sunday. Those are things that can't be done. You must continue to defend the fact that only a judge can rule that freedom of expression is exceeded. It's not up to a private company like Facebook to play judge in that. I hope that we have an ally in you to fight this, because I am very close to freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u8	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55008234C, 55008330C and 55008841C by Mrs Dedonder are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55008458C by Mrs Depraetere is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u9	Minister, on 17 September a message appeared in De Standaard entitled: "China wants to know everything about 686 Belgians and millions of others." The news shows that the Chinese company Zhenhua, with a Overseas Key Information Database, maintains comprehensive data on individuals around the world, including 686 Belgians, including a number of public figures and politicians. This would only be the tip of the iceberg, as only 10% of the database could be analysed. Even more worrying is that one also focuses on relationships between one another, both from the professional and from the private sphere. They also keep records not only from public sources, but also from confidential offline sources. These data could be used to blackmail people. Of course, China denies that the government is involved. However, this is not credible, as the company Zhenhua is part of a sophisticated ecosystem of similar companies. We must also get past the strict Chinese censorship legislation in order to be able to collect these data. The Chinese military service itself recently admitted that 90% of its data comes from similar sources. These practices are a gross violation of privacy and GDPR legislation. Minister, do you have any knowledge of these practices? What steps will you take to stop these practices? Will you, for example, call China to account and contact the Chinese ambassador to see what can be done to stop this violation of privacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u10	Mr President, this is, of course, primarily and essentially a problem of national security, for which other services are responsible. The Justice and Defence Ministers may be able to give you a broader answer than I can from the privacy point of view. When it comes to privacy, of course the Data Protection Authority (GBA), which works under Parliament's control, is competent. The GBA has few enforcement opportunities in this area vis-à-vis foreign public authorities. Data protection legislation, the GDPR, is also not designed to respond to these specific challenges, so there are undoubtedly other legal instruments to address the core of this problem. However, there have been effective breaches of data protection rules, such as the re-use or unlawful collection of personal data. I have asked the GBA to look into this and it does not rule out the possibility of an investigation being carried out or of course, in cooperation with federal colleagues or colleagues in other European countries, of course, not only Belgian prominent figures on these lists will be taken steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u11	Minister, Mr Freilich has just come in. He had also put a question on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We need to see what we can do to put pressure on China so that it respects our legislation. After all, it is impossible for China to produce large-scale profiles of people all over the world, and I am talking first and foremost about the Belgians and the Flemings involved in this. I look forward to any initiatives you will take together with your colleagues to put a stop to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I don't have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u14	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the spectrum auction that should allow the roll-out of 5G. Normally this should have taken place at the end of last year. In previous auctions, 80% of the revenue went to the federal government and 20% to the Communities. There is disagreement about this despite the fact that an independent study still maintains these percentages. Our country must not be unduly delayed. During the past summer, BIPT then granted temporary licences, so that the commercial exploitation can start anyway and there is a first start. I now hear that there would be an opening in the Consultation Committee, in which the proceeds of the auction would be resolved by paying into a blocked account. This way the auction can take place. In this way, our country will have no unnecessary delay in the roll-out of 5G. Is it true that a solution has been found for this blocking, by placing the proceeds in a blocked account? Is there a meeting of the Consultative Committee scheduled on this subject, and this solution will be proposed and confirmed? When could the auction take place at the earliest? What are the consequences of this delay on the possible allocation to our country of the Cybersecurity Centre, which the European Commission intends to set up? Does this mean that Belgium has no chance that this centre will be located in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u15	Thank you for your questions. At numerous meetings of the Consultation Committee, I proposed a solution to organise the auction of the 5G licences. It was a proposal to organise the auction and to park its proceeds in a blocked account, so that later on at the political level we could see exactly how the proceeds should be distributed. So far, the Länder have reacted negatively to this. So no agreement was found. That also means that the real auction has not yet taken place. I've always regretted that. I believe that my solution is still the solution by which the dossier can be unblocked. Recently I saw that there were positive voices from Flanders to implement that solution, to proceed as quickly as possible to the real auction and to have the discussion about the proceeds afterwards. At that time, of course, I made sure that there was a piece of objectification in the discussion. The BIPT and Capgemini have made a study that aims at the proportion of media use in total data traffic across mobile 5G networks, both in value and in different volumes. I hope that this study will enable me to reach an agreement with the Länder in a subsequent consultation committee. You will understand that in the meetings of the Consultative Committee there has been mainly discussion of the corona crisis in recent times, but I think it is very important that the debate on 5G should be put back on the table at the next part-session. For the time being, the BIPT has provided for the granting of provisional duties, which are valid nationally, including in Brussels, but, of course, the existing radiation standards in Brussels must be taken into account. They can still be a stumbling block for the roll-out of 5G in our capital. It is therefore clear that both the absence of the auction and the strict radiation standards are not really an asset that Belgium can play to bring the Centre for Cybersecurity to Brussels. However, if we can find a solution in a short time, Belgium's chances are undamaged. The Centre for Cybersecurity is being set up to land in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u16	Thank you for your reply, Minister. So you don't have a real term. So there is no concrete answer to that. In the scenes I happened to hear that "Stop 5G" is also active and has attacked the BIPT in relation to the temporary licenses. I hope that, as a government, we will clearly support the roll-out of 5G, so that it is not further hampered. I know you're a tough fighter in that. I would therefore very much like you to continue with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u17	You may have heard that the apps Tik Tok and WeChat in the United States are being restricted by the government. As far as WeChat is concerned, I've heard that the restrictions have been undone by an American judge. In any case, there is a heated discussion about whether these apps, mainly from China, do not collect and transmit sensitive information. That's why I have a few questions. Does our country consider similar measures? Are the popular Chinese apps subject to state security investigation or are we assuming that anyone can launch anything? Do you consider, as with 5G, where high risk suppliers are working, to also name a number of countries or yet certain software developers as high risk suppliers for software? Are there ever any technology products, especially software, banned in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u18	Thank you for your questions. I have no knowledge of the details of the situation in the United States and I do not know what prompted the administration to block apps like TikTok and WeChat. Those apps, such as many different apps, naturally transmit and process large amounts of personal data. That is why European and national supervisors have already opened an investigation into several of these apps. A separate task force was also set up in the European Data Protection Board in June 2020. I have always supported this common approach, because I think it is important for Europe to act together in this matter. The Data Protection Authority has also stated that it does not intend to open a separate investigation at the moment, but rather to join the European démarches. The measures taken by the Security Council on 5G infrastructure do indeed restrict access to certain components of the 5G high-risk vendor infrastructure. In my view, this is an important aspect of the protection of our national security. However, the 5G file must be seen separately from the security issues of certain software, in particular some popular apps coming from third countries. I believe, as I said, that the European common approach is the right one to identify possible security problems properly and to take action. At the same time, as Minister for Digital Agenda, I naturally aim to promote new technologies, new applications coming from Europe. However, if apps from within or outside Europe were to infringe civil or other laws in force in our country, it would obviously be up to the judicial authorities or the GBA to enforce the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u19	Thank you. I won't reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u20	I thought your question was merged with Mrs Verhelst's. Would you like a separate answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic267x.u21	Indeed, the safety aspect has already been addressed, as has the auction and the radiation. I'm sure I can get on with that. Thank you.
