ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55001521C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u2	Mr President, Minister, in order to comply with the law on the release of nuclear energy and to abandon the operation of our power plants by 2025, it is imperative that we develop renewable energies and, in particular, the wind industry. However, many areas prevent the installation of new wind turbines for military reasons (radars, exercise zones), particularly around air bases. While it is obvious that these exclusion zones make sense, it would nevertheless seem necessary, given the urgency of our energy transition, to dialogue with the army and to re-examine the maps more flexibly. It must be possible to re-examine these exclusion zones in order to create new land for wind turbines in the two regions of the country. Is it possible, Minister, to consider setting up a working group with representatives of the army and with our regional counterparts in order to find new areas where wind turbines can be installed in the current exclusion zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vicar, first of all, I would like to reaffirm the importance of environmental aspects for my department, including the production of renewable energy. You will understand, however, that Defence cannot afford to set aside its operational imperatives and that, therefore, a reconciliation of these two interests is necessary. In recent years, Defence has consulted regularly with Regions and organizations dealing with renewable energy. Since 2012, these consultations have led to several relaxations in the protection zones around military airports and training areas. In this context, a number of additional easing measures were introduced before summer 2019. Defence has mitigated some of the restrictions to install wind turbines around military airfields, with the result that the limit on wind turbine height has increased from 122 metres to 150 metres in some areas. The Defence also released a drop zone and adapted a helicopter training area to allow the construction of wind farms. Defence will continue to take a constructive approach in this dialogue and is therefore prepared to consult with regional partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u4	Minister, thank you for this good news. I would be happy to follow the evolution of these working groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u5	Mr President, Minister, we have talked a number of times in this committee about staff shortages. I have recently been surprised at the outsourcing of the guard, so I am surprised to read in the newspaper that the army and the police in my region of North Limburg will work together to carry out traffic checks. It is about the control of on-board documents and alcohol and drug tests. In itself, I have nothing against cooperation between public administrations, but given the framework outlined, I find that somewhat odd and I therefore have the following questions. Have any financial agreements been made between the police and the army? After all, this way the police are relieved for a piece. The military have a different statute than the police officers, so it would be more than fair for them to work on the same conditions at that time. Have any agreements been made on this? Who's gonna decide this? Is this something that is decided centrally or is it the local unit that makes this decision and which believes that cooperation with the local police services brings added value to them. I note that there is also a similar question about the local fire department on the agenda. Is this something that people will try out in North Limburg to carry out traffic checks in other places together with the police? I submitted this question some time ago, so I wonder if it has started in the meantime. Have such checks already been carried out effectively? What is the first evaluation of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u6	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, no financial commitments have been made within the framework of this initiative. After all, there is no question of removing the burden on the police. Both the local police and the military police carry out their own tasks within their own powers. So the military police will only control military and military vehicles. The military who take part in this action will work within their normal working regime and working conditions. After all, this is only about targeted and punctual actions that will be limited in time, up to a few hours. There is no question of structural cooperation. The collaboration in Limburg is a local initiative created by the good relationship between the local detachment of the MP Group in Leopoldsburg and the local police area, with the aim of using the mutually available resources, vehicles and personnel in the most efficient way possible by using an operative during control actions. There is no intention to develop this cooperation in a structural or national way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u7	Minister, that is a very clear answer. I do not really see any added value in organising controls at the same time as police checks. It is basically that the on-board documents of military vehicles are controlled by military personnel. I think that is a rather special situation. Anyway, your answer is certainly clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u8	Mr.President, Minister, my question dates back to November 19, 2019. So almost two months ago, the CHOD gave a rather cash interview to the newspaper Le Soir in which he indicated that he feared for the future of his army for structural, budgetary, strategic or human resources reasons. In particular, in view of the budgetary challenge posed by the military programming law and the significant staffing needs, it indicated that it was ready to close certain capabilities, either permanently or temporarily. As you know, for my group, the extensive outsourcing of a whole range of capabilities, especially surveillance, medical and technical assistance including this in operation, is of great concern to us. So, Minister, what are your emergency plans to deal with this budgetary and human reality? What functions and capabilities are threatened in the short or long term? Do you have any new plans for outsourcing that would extend beyond the provision of services such as the Horeca, including outside the national territory? As part of the current provisional twelfths and the difficulty of obtaining a budget during current business, how do you plan to meet the new military commitments planned, as well as urgent human, material and infrastructure expenditures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u9	Mr. Chair, Mr. Lacroix, as his name suggests, the transition team must prepare the transition from the current Defence situation to the integration of the new systems. In this context, one of the most important challenges is the evolution of the staff situation. The transition team needs to analyze the situation in more detail and propose control measures that will enable Defence to prepare for the future. This team is in the midst of work and it is premature at this stage to draw conclusions from it. The transition team must make proposals to ensure that the organization operates, despite the wave of retirements, while maintaining maximum operational output and ensuring that new recruits are trained and guided by experienced military personnel. If, despite these measures, the staffing situation causes Defence to temporarily or temporarily terminate certain capabilities, it will always ensure that a core of specialists are retained to re-establish them when the situation permits. A realization of the outsourcing projects provided for in the Strategic Vision is vital to achieve this transition to the future. Defence will therefore continue to implement the phase of outsourcing initiated and planned tasks that do not require military expertise or experience. Where the staffing situation will impose it, this outsourcing should be extended or accelerated. With regard to the budget, it should first be pointed out that the Strategic Vision provided, in addition to the resources required for investments, for an increase in the base envelope, which was necessary, among other things, for the recruitment and enhancement of the attractiveness of Defence. The provisional appropriations for the period from January to March 2020 shall be calculated at three twelfths of the appropriations as set out in the report of the Monitoring Committee. They therefore include the means necessary for the payment of the debt following the contractual obligations of the major material investments included in the Strategic Vision and the military programming law, but also those necessary for the growth of the base envelope. This envelope allows for the implementation of new systems and a build-up of capacity in the field of investments in current equipment and adapted infrastructure and the upgrading of ammunition stocks. In addition, the attractiveness of the military occupation will be increased in all its aspects and all activities that do not require any military expertise and experience will be carried out by non-military personnel by expanding outsourcing contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems to me that you are quite optimistic, if not too optimistic, about the transition team. I do not, of course, question the capabilities, intelligence and know-how of this transition team. But even if the appropriations are provided through the provisional twelfths for recruitment, I, what I hear, is that we are, in October 2019, 26,000 military. The goal is to reach 20 0000 by 2025. To achieve this goal, taking into account departures, 2,100 young people would have to be recruited annually. However, there are currently 1,750 recruits. There is already a very large gap from the stated objectives, even if we have the budgetary means. Are we going to recruit all azimuts by focusing on quantity over quality? It's really a question I'll come back to. Similarly, I will not speak again about the departures of non-commissioned officers and officers between the ages of 30 and 40. This is the case of 700 a year, which is enormous. Finally, there is also a very significant fall in the rate of coaching for the training of our military. So I really invite you, together with the transition team, to make sure that what we are told, or what is predictable, does not happen. It would be a disaster for the army. It would be a disaster for Belgium. It would be a disaster for our national and international credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u11	Mrs Moscufo and Mr Boukili are not present, so their combined questions Nos. 55001727C and 55001729C expired. Mr Verduyckt said that his question No. 55001811C is without object, whereas Mr Francken is not present for his question No. 55002727C, which voids those merged questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u12	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the military air controllers in Semmerzake moved on December 2. They will thus join Skeyes civil air traffic controllers based in Steenokkerzeel. The agreement concluded in October 2018 between Defence and Skeyes provides for integration between military and civilian personnel in the execution of certain missions by 2022. In other words, our military will be able to work for Skeyes. However, with the same work, both civilian and military will have major differences in status. First, the military has a lower income than Skeyes's employees. Secondly, our military have no right to strike, unlike their civilian counterparts. In my view, these differences in status are problematic and may cause us to fear that the military will decide to leave the army to join Skeyes. In their place, we would probably do the same. Minister, my question is this. How will you resolve these differences in status and avoid the departure of our military air controllers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u13	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Vicaire, all the military air controllers present at the Steenokkerzeel sites, as well as the Glons CRC, which will soon be installed in Beauvechain, account for less than 20% of all air controllers. Given that all of these air controllers will have equivalent responsibilities and tasks, Defence focuses on the consistency of a single status and fairness within all controllers. It should be noted, however, that the current licences are not equivalent and that military controllers are currently unable to control civilian air traffic. Studies are currently under way to align the two types of licences. In addition, as part of the increase in the attractiveness of the military air traffic controller occupation, the departure of air traffic controllers to Skeyes is already envisaged in the future for those who wish to do so after their period of profitability within Defence. These potential departures, and thus a greater turnover, are also taken into consideration by the defence human resources policy of this specialty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u14	Thank you Minister, that does not prevent tensions, and a strike notice is currently pending until January 28. So I think the question came up in the light of the current tensions at Skeyes. I am still afraid that the differences in status make our air force controllers strike breakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u15	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I delete my question No 55002223C, which I attach to question No 55002697C, since it also concerns MONUSCO. But as things stand, the minister has not been able to make his trip to the Congo. The Prime Minister has just met with President Tshisekedi in Davos. Everyone's in Davos right now. I believe that it would perhaps be more appropriate and effective for our committee to hold another question-and-answer session on our approach to the Congo in the future in terms of international policy and defence. It will be more positive and we will lose less time. Indeed, today, the two MONUSCO officers, who have been there for some time, have a comprehensive approach to Defence - Foreign Affairs. My question, therefore, was not really one, but rather one of consideration and suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u16	Indeed, it might be more interesting to take stock after the visit. It had to be postponed for known reasons. A new visit is scheduled for the beginning of February, so we will not be too late for the questions you are asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u17	Minister, we have already debated the worrying situation of certain military barracks on a number of occasions in committee. For example, the military barracks in Aarlen were under water and on the campus Saffronberg there were 600 candidate officers without water. In addition to this appalling situation, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the operationality of the military barracks. At the time, Minister Vandeput's plan was to close 14 barracks, taking into account the geographical distribution. In the run-up to the local elections, in 2018, I think the plan has ended up in the bottom slide. Minister, what is the current state of play of the Vandeput plan, which was announced at the end of 2017? Which army barracks are still operational today and which will close in time? Do you share the view that flexible workplaces should be created, taking into account the correct geographical distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u18	Mr Vandenput, the previous government decided not to close new quarters. With the implementation of previous political decisions, the 15 minutes of Wispelaere in Jambes was closed last year. Actually, there are 45 headquarters still operational. Pending a new government, no more quarters will be closed. A good geographical distribution of the barracks is appropriate for the promotion of recruitment and the attraction of the profession. In addition, staff are given the possibility, where possible and subject to certain conditions, to work flexibly, either from a satellite workstation in a barracks, located nearer to their place of residence or from their place of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u19	Thank you, Minister. It is fortunate that the previous government did not approve the plan of former Minister Vandeput, so no quarters were closed. As far as geographical distribution is concerned, two weeks ago we had a hearing on HR, where it was also heard that more barracks had to be located closer to the people. I look forward to another government that can implement such a decentralised distribution plan for barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u20	The subject is also dealt with in another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u21	Minister, Kleine-Brogel's air base is at the heart of the North Limburg relief zone. There is also an extensive fire station on the air base. It is also a coincidence that this fire station is ideally located within the flight base fence to provide optimal coverage for an area outside the air base. In the past, questions have been raised several times for structural cooperation between the relief zone and the defence sector. Until now, however, this has not been possible. In 2018 there was a fire very close to the airbase. Afterwards it became very clear that aid from the air base would have added value to the provision of the first aid. In the same year, a letter was sent from the relief zone to your predecessor, Minister Vandeput. In his reply he ruled out structural, official cooperation because of a lack of staff, means of intervention for civilian purposes, legal framework, etc. We regret this response. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. Are you of the same opinion as your predecessor, Mr Vandeput? According to him, official structural cooperation was excluded. To what extent can there be cooperation between Defence and local authorities, local aid zones and police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u22	Mr Matheii, on the ground, firefighters are always willing to help wherever possible and ad hoc. The fire services of the 10th Tactical Wing in Kleine-Brogel are only dimensioned to support the flight operations of the airbase. The fight against house fires is no longer even part of the task. The immediate effect of sending out the airbase fire brigade is to stop all operations and to close runways, which is not possible from an operational point of view. There is cooperation between Defence and the services involved in public aid. Defence shall provide support according to its capabilities and taking into account its own tasks. This cooperation is based on the exchange of certain information, knowledge and local procedures when drawing up emergency and intervention plans. On the other hand, Defence also actively participates in planning and conducting exercises to evaluate various emergency and intervention plans, at local and provincial level. A third option falls within the scope of public aid and emergency planning and concerns the provision of assistance to the civil authorities responsible for disaster, catastrophe and damage relief. The discipline of logistical support provided by the Royal Decree on emergency and intervention plans provides for the possibility of supporting the competent civilian authority by a number of means, including military equipment and personnel. In support of the integrated police and customs services, there are operational and non-operational cooperation protocols.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u23	Minister, ad hoc cooperation on the ground is indeed good. I myself am mayor of Peer, to which Little Brogel belongs, so I can certainly speak with that. It is only regrettable to note that there can be no opening-up to more structural cooperation. There is now a situation where there is a fire station, so to speak, within the fence of the airbase, and in the long term 500 metres or one kilometre further, a fire station must be set up. That is difficult to explain and does not make any sense either. We regret that we cannot achieve greater cooperation on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u24	The President: Mr Flahaut has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u25	Mr. Minister, in an anonymized interview that appeared in the media on 10 September 2019, a member of the Special Forces mentioned that certain insurances are almost priceless for the members of his group, because of the risks involved in the appeal in question. The man literally said: "Our debt balance insurance is hugely higher than for someone with an ordinary job. Hospitalisation insurance is not even payable anymore." However, on the website of the Central Social and Cultural Action Service of the Ministry of Defence, we find that the members of the armed forces in actual service are beneficiaries of, among other things, a hospitalisation fee. Here's what I'd like to hear from you. Firstly, is this hospitalisation insurance similar to that of what could be called civil insurance? Or has it been specifically adapted for members of the armed forces in actual service? If so, what are the adjustments? Secondly, is the premium for hospitalisation insurance for members of the armed forces in actual service different according to the different components and the task package within the relevant component? If applicable, what are the lowest and the highest premiums respectively? Where appropriate, within the respective components, which functions are covered by the payers of the highest premiums? Thirdly, and finally, do you agree with the ruling of the member of the Special Forces concerned that hospitalisation insurance premiums are virtually unaffordable? What are your reasons for doing so if so? What initiatives do you have in mind to provide a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u26	Mr Creyelman, the hospitalisation insurance offered through the Defense Department is indeed comparable in terms of coverage to civil insurance. However, there is no obligation as a defence officer to subscribe to this insurance. The calculation of the premium depends on the staff member's age category and not on the job performed. In addition, the contribution for staff who signed up for this insurance is paid in full by the Ministry of Defence. There is therefore no difference in contributions for the persons concerned. Premiums may be high for insurance contracts concluded directly between the insured person and the insurer. This is one of the reasons why the Department of Defense is offering this group insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that the DOD is meeting potential problems in hospitalisation insurance by offering this insurance itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u28	Minister, in the second half of 2019, the Security of the State and the General Intelligence and Security Service advocated a uniform system in order to communicate electronically in a secure manner. They specifically asked for an adequate, secure network to be established by 2024 to enable them to communicate easily with each other. Despite the fact that the outdated BINII network was already modified in 2015 with new cryptographic security features, it is no longer what it should be according to today's standards. It is not sufficiently safe and adequate. Minister, to what degree are messages sent using the BINII network? How are the messages with the highest classification between the different security services, the Crisis Centre, the OCAD and the Federal Office passed on? Do you agree that the current BINII network is not sufficiently safe and adequate according to today's standards? If not, what arguments do you have for that? Are you planning initiatives to set up the requested new adequate and secure network? Where appropriate, what stage are these initiatives at?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u29	Mr Creyelman, the BINII network is Homologized for sending messages to the classification levels of Belgian secret, NATO secret and European Union secret. Messages with these rating grades are exchanged by mail between the different services. This network is completely isolated and it is therefore not possible to send an e-mail with one of the rating levels already mentioned directly from the BINII network to other networks. The BINII network has been Homologised through current standards. The approval of the entire network and of each individual BINII customer is done by the ADIV according to the quoted standards. These standards are contemporary and of the highest possible level. They focus not only on the security of infrastructure or the means of information such as computers, printers, ICT and network, but also on the screening and rehabilitation of personnel who need access to these systems. No complaints, incidents or network security issues have been reported to date. There is therefore no reason to take initiatives in this area now. With regard to these systems, of course, there is an evolution that is being closely monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this explanation. If I have understood correctly, you say that the security of the state and the military security services in a memorandum that they made public in the middle of last year asked you a question that you will not answer. That's what I think I understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u31	Minister, after a three-year legal battle, the Washington Post newspaper was able to look at certain documents and interview transcripts that give a staggering picture of how policy-makers, military officers and diplomats view the US military operation in Afghanistan; particularly relevant. Interviews show that there was a complete lack of strategy or clear objectives during the conflict. There was no answer to basic questions like 'who is the enemy' and 'who are our allies'. Similarly, the question 'when did we win the war' remained unanswered, leaving the demand for the goals there open. Several stakeholders also admitted that the US simply did not understand Afghanistan, which led to many initiatives based on false assumptions and thus failed. In addition, the US injected much more money into Afghanistan than it could absorb, encouraging corruption. Finally, it appears that citizens were not properly informed about the war. To date, Belgium is also participating in operations in Afghanistan. That is why questions can certainly be asked about the extent to which this Belgian participation is taking place and has been done with a clear objective and a political, diplomatic and humanitarian framework. Minister, what lessons can Belgium draw from these Afghanistan Papers? If you look back at the Belgian participation in the former operations in Afghanistan, do you recognise that our country also failed to set clear objectives, an understanding of the context and a broader strategy? Do you feel that the current development in Afghanistan and, for example, in Mali is taking place within a framework with clear objectives and a clear context? Do you agree that a review framework for military operations and a thorough 3D-LO analysis are a must?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u32	Mrs Moscufo is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u33	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, since the start of the War on Terror in 2001, there have been several military operations in Afghanistan. The International Security Assistance Force, later transformed into Resolute Support Mission, are operations under NATO flag. Operation Enduring Freedom, on the other hand, was a purely American operation. For the time being, it is unclear which of these operations the Afghanistan Papers are doing properly. The Defence Lessons Learned Process takes into account the periodic reporting provided by NATO and contains feedback on the engagement of our own troops involved in the operation. These recommendations form an integral part of the evaluation cycle for the continuation or non-continuation of an operation. The statement in the recent article of The Washington Post criticises the American approach on the ground, but it is not yet clear to the defence staff whether there are any points of contact with the deployment of our Belgian military forces in Afghanistan. The deployment of Belgian military forces in Afghanistan has always been part of the Belgian contribution within NATO to improving the security situation and stability in the region. The military objectives have always been clearly defined. The missions carried out by the Belgian detachments in Afghanistan, most of the time within a German unit, were regarded as successes, both at national and international level. Belgian Defence's participation in operations is always subject to a process of appraisal, including a clear strategic vision and objectives that form part of international cooperation within structures such as the United Nations, NATO or the European Union. They are also submitted to the full Council of Ministers for individual approval each year and thereafter. Each participation is therefore already an informed and tested decision, which is borne by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u34	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but I am afraid you are proposing the reality far too rosy. We were also active with F-16s in Afghanistan at the time. We have been involved in this because we were expected to do so and asked for it, while it was obvious in Parliament that critical questions were asked about it at the time. The political objectives were not clear. Military and political were difficult to reconcile. We did not know who our allies and enemies were there and what the long-term political objectives were. If we look at the current reality in Afghanistan, my point will only be proved. We have always said with our group that it is a good thing that we are engaged in international operations. We have a certain responsibility, but it must be put on the table as a lever to enforce a clear political objective from the allies. We should not simply engage in a military operation because we are asked to do so. Our country is politically mature and must therefore force clear, good political strategies from our allies, otherwise we simply do not participate. I believe that is a good attitude in our foreign affairs and our defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u35	Unfortunately, this format does not allow discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u36	I'm going to ask my question quickly, since we have a timer – it's serious. Indeed, Minister, my question is just as serious. A few months ago, I was told of new cases of discrimination against students from the German-speaking Community – that is, German-speaking students – in the Defence. In this unfortunate case, which has been told to me, it is a disrespectful statement made towards students at the Royal Military School. The consequences were quite serious, since those who were studying or attending school eventually decided to give up. At a time when we want and need to improve attractiveness, I think we should also review certain behaviours, and at least remember that in our country too we speak three languages officially. Even if we don't ask for specific treatment, I think having a little consideration wouldn't hurt anyone. First, Minister, are you aware of this situation? Do you know if, for similar cases with other language groups, a point of confidence is established by the Defence in order to be able at some point to discuss this calmly? Finally, what could be envisaged, not to improve the situation, but to prevent it from happening too often in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, it is clear that, within the ERM, as everywhere in the Defence, there is no place for discriminatory statements. Every student within the ERM is briefed in this direction as soon as he or she enters the School. In addition, a Diversity Steering Team was established within the École Royale Militaire, whose mandate includes identifying concrete actions to raise awareness among members of the School. If such events had ever taken place, there were several systems and contact points in place to trace the facts through promotion managers, trusted persons, and the guidance unit. These systems or contact points have already proven their effectiveness in the past and are therefore sufficient to respond adequately and confidentially to any kind of inappropriate or unacceptable behaviour. More generally, there are different services within the Defence that are empowered to receive and deal with such complaints, if any. In the area of discrimination, the Directorate-General for Health and Well-Being is the first authority to deal with discrimination through trusted persons. The Complaints Management Service of the General Inspectorate may also be required to receive such complaints and, depending on the content of the file, is therefore in close contact with the Directorate-General for Health and Well-Being. Without being aware of any direct complaints of discrimination against German-speaking students, I am well aware that a student of the Royal Military School of German-speaking origin recently left Defence on his own initiative, following academic failure. The Committee of Deliberation examined the situation of this student officer. In addition to the short-term failure, the Commission noted the difficulties of expression in the more literary branches, but gave it the opportunity to start the academic year again. Despite several interviews with the points of contact mentioned above, explaining to him the reasons for his final failure and motivating him to remain in the Defence, he chose to leave the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u38	Minister, I see that you are very well informed of the case that I did not specifically mention in my question. Thank you, in any case, for having recalled all the devices available to prevent this from happening again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u39	Minister, as the London Summit has just concluded, NATO is preparing for a major exercise, Defender 2020, in April and May 2020. This exercise is presented as the largest NATO exercise on European soil since the end of the Cold War. 37,000 soldiers from 18 countries are announced: 8,000 European soldiers, 9,000 American soldiers based in Europe and 20,000 men from the United States. This major exercise will include airborne operations in Georgia, Lithuania and Latvia, a river crossing in Poland and combined manoeuvres in Germany. Mr Minister, I would like to know the direct and indirect Belgian contribution to Defender 2020 since this exercise will test military mobility – which is the subject of strong cooperation between the European Union and NATO – within the European continent in the event of aggression by one of the NATO states. I would also like you to recall the logistical challenges facing our army around the port of Antwerp and the innovative solutions that will be tested on this occasion. Finally, behind any NATO exercise and the military lessons to be learned, there is a political dimension that must not be overlooked. I would like you to detail the ambitions and the message to be conveyed by NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u40	Ms. Jadin, Defence is not actively involved in Exercise Defender 2020, but the Defence Staff is actively involved in operational planning, in close collaboration with other CFOs, including Mobility and Customs, by coordinating the deployment of various services that will assist Americans in landing and moving to their final destinations. The biggest challenge is to get all the columns out of the port of Antwerp without too much impacting traffic. For this purpose, the movements will be carried out mainly at night and will be supervised by the police movement control group and the military police. The other main challenges perceived by Defence are a lack of resources and personnel to execute full support for unloading, but the gaps are filled through contracts with the Americans. The support for mobility and logistics provided by Defence to Defender 2020 clearly contributes to a positive image of a Belgium on which the Alliance can count.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u41	Minister, while the Belgian State Security is fighting against the activities of Rwandan intelligence services in Belgium, in 2016 the Belgian Military Intelligence Service reportedly signed an agreement with Rwanda's secret services with the consent of the then Minister of Defence. While aware that this is a very confidential matter, the situation around this agreement remains rather nebulous, so that the P Committee has just taken up this issue with arms-to-body. Minister, can you take stock with us of this rather obscure situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u42	Ms Jadin, the SGRS is carrying out its tasks in accordance with the Organization Act of 30 November 1998 of the intelligence and security services. The SGRS does not publicly communicate on files which could endanger the security of the country, that of Belgian nationals abroad, its staff or its missions. The Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, the R Committee, is informed of the activities of the SGRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u43	Minister, the answer is no! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u44	Mr Minister, some 44 Pandur-type armoured vehicles, more than 20 years old by the way, which are used as a command vehicle, medical vehicle or reconnaissance unit, have become unusable by an update of EUR 30 million, a not bad amount. With the update, the Swiss producer who did the update has made sure that the armoured cars have become unsafe. The military who tested the updated armoured vehicle came to the conclusion that there can no longer be a safe braking and steering system which does not seem uncomfortable to me to feel safe in such vehicles, among other things because the interior space of the vehicles has become too small due to the additional installations and options. The solution proposed to recruit only military personnel less than 1.70 metres as drivers or shooters seems to me to be as ridiculous as it is laughable. I have the following questions, Minister. How the hell is it possible that the preparation of this file did not take into account the size of the military and the amount of space that the update would take? Who bears the operational responsibility for this farce and, if you consider that the Swiss producer bears all or part of the responsibility, is there any possibility of compensation? What costs are directly and indirectly linked to correcting this failed Midlife Update? When will the armoured vehicles underneath the update be re-usable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u45	Minister, Mr Creyelman has already outlined the issue of the Midlife Upgrade, but unfortunately there is more going on with the Pandurs. I would still like to outline that context. The Pandurs were originally not intended as a reconnaissance vehicle, but as a troop transport vehicle. In 2008 they were converted into a reconnaissance vehicle, but the Pandurs are not well suited for that. They are less armored than other reconnaissance vehicles, such as the Dutch Fennek, and are visual and thermally easier to see. The first commander of ISTAR expressed all his doubts about the operational employability of the vehicle in 2011. Apart from the Midlife Upgrade and the current problems there has been a problem with the Pandurs for many years. They were never deployed in a foreign operation as a reconnaissance vehicle, to which they were converted at the time. However, for budgetary reasons, it was decided to further develop the Pandurs and make adjustments to make the vehicle operational with the meanwhile known consequences. The decision not to replace the Pandur but to upgrade it was also recalled in the strategic vision of 2016. An amount of EUR 31 million was also reserved for this purpose. How has the decision been made not to buy new suitable reconnaissance vehicles, but to further develop the Pandurs, despite many signs that the vehicle is not suitable for exploration? What was the reason for this choice? Was ever considered buying new vehicles instead of rebuilding them? Can the Pandur's Midlife Upgrade still be saved? Is it an option to stop the programme and invest in new vehicles? To what extent have errors occurred in the companies that have completed the upgrade? Are you prepared to ask the Treasury Inspectorate to examine how the decision to upgrade was taken and how the contracts were subsequently awarded?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u46	The decision to transform the Pandur from troop transport vehicle to reconnaissance vehicle was taken in 2004. De Pandur had at that time an armor at least equal to that of the German-Dutch Fennek. In the preparation for the strategic vision of 29 June 2016, all possible options were examined. There were no new reconnaissance vehicles on the market, only existing types such as the Fennek that were no longer adapted to the increased threat of mines and IEDs in Iraq, Afghanistan and Mali. The traditional strategic partners of Belgium in ISTAR, namely Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, had either an update programme running for their existing vehicles, the Netherlands and Germany for the Fennek since 2013, or an update programme in preparation, Luxembourg for the PRV. Moreover, the upgrade of the Fennek is similar to that of the Pandur and concerns, inter alia, an adjustment of mining and ballistic protection, brakes and the engine. The development of the new common reconnaissance vehicle is planned for around 2025 and aims to produce a mature vehicle by 2030-2035. The Pandur is undergoing modernisation, the adaptation of mining and ballistic protection being the first step. The complete modernisation consists of four additional modifications. The contract for the installation of a mining floor to protect personnel in the vehicle from mines and IEDs reduces the interior height of the vehicle by about 10 centimeters. Seven vehicles have currently undergone the adaptation of mining and ballistic protection. Problems were identified in the delivery of the protective kits and in the technical re-assembly of the vehicle. The vehicles will be dismantled and restored in the following months in the context of a call for security. This opportunity is also used to improve the comfort of the crew on a number of points. So far, Defence has paid EUR 1.7 million for the first seven vehicles. The contracts for the four other updates were awarded at the end of 2018 and will be implemented after the adaptation of mining and ballistic protection. The adjustments will further improve safety and operationality. The first vehicles that will have completed the Midlife Upgrade will be available by the end of 2021. At the time of the conclusion of the various contracts, the Ministry of Defence has always complied with the applicable law and regulations and consulted all planned internal and external audit bodies, including the Treasury Inspection, the Parliamentary Committee on Army Purchases and Sales and the Council of Ministers. The various purchase files were submitted each time to the Treasury Inspectorate and contained the qualitative, quantitative and opportunity motivation for the upgrade, on which the Treasury Inspectorate issued an opinion, as provided for in Chapter 5 of the Royal Decree of 16 November 1994 on administrative and budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u47	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that we have agreed to hold a hearing on military equipment, with a specific focus on Pandur and Piranha. This hearing will take place on 19 February in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u48	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer, in so far as you have answered my questions. Honestly, I can't imagine that something like this wouldn't be included in the books. This may go beyond all kinds of bodies, but you mention a number of which, above all, need to check the financial accuracy of the picture rather than the technical part. I am not saying that you have political responsibility for this dossier, but I am surprised that everyone is being pointed at. I get the impression that in this file the Midlife Update has become a kind of midlife crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the decision to convert the Pandur into a reconnaissance vehicle was taken in 2004 and that all options were indeed considered, but that at that time only the Fennek was on the market. The Pandur has been maintained, but at the same time you say that update programmes for the Fennek were envisaged. So there were technological prospects for improvement of the Fennek. Both options could therefore have been better weighed. Apart from that, certainly from the moment the signals came that the Pandur fell through the basket as a reconnaissance vehicle, a great risk was taken to carry out the Midlife Update. If you do not want to break this off now, but want to continue, you are taking a big risk. This will continue to cost money, but fortunately there is not so much money wasted on it. The money will have to continue to be spent on the update. Given all the signs, that seems to me to be an irresponsible risk. We better save money by stopping the MLU and looking for solutions, possibly together with other countries, to solve the capacity gap. We can then possibly plan expenditure in the context of the joint purchase of the new vehicle, for a few years' time. That seems to me to be a scenario to investigate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u50	Minister, the subject has already been discussed in the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign shipments. I would also like to thank you once again for the transparency that you and the defence staff showed at the time. So you can look at this question as a sort of follow-up question, firstly, to frame the general situation here in the committee and, secondly, to give the possible new elements known in the research conducted by the Defence Department and in the terrorist investigation which started the federal prosecutor's office. Thank you in advance for any additions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u51	Mr Flahaut and Mr Dallemagne are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u52	Ms Ponthier, the circumstances in which the incident took place were explained to the members of the parliamentary committee responsible for monitoring foreign shipments on 8 January 2020. The investigation, including a rogatory letter from the Belgian Federal Office from 19 to 23 January 2020, is still ongoing. It is therefore too early to take final decisions. MINUSMA is taking all possible measures to prevent such incidents. It seeks to identify, anticipate and, if possible, neutralize the threat of FDI through a good intelligence network. An in-depth analysis is thus carried out after each incident, both at the tactical and technical levels. Our participation in the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali for 2020 provides for approximately five military personnel at the Intelligence Centre headquarters in Bamako; about ten specialists, analysts and field agents within the German Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Unit in Gao and about 55 military personnel from a multisensor platoon within the same German unit. Belgium also offers, by analogy with 2019, the deployment of two Mobile Training Teams of approximately ten military personnel who can provide training and training to African contingents participating in MINUSMA, each for ten weeks. Our military personnel in Bamako are supported throughout the year by a National Support Element composed of about fifteen military personnel. The Joint Support Detachment in Gao has about 25 military personnel. The total number of victims caused by FDI in Mali is 593, including 197 deaths in 2018 and 459 in 2019, including 137 deaths. The number of civilian casualties by FDI amounts to 245, of which 113 were killed in 2018 and 220 in 2019, of which 81 were killed. With regard to the force to which the military victims belonged, MINUSMA had 93 victims, including 8 dead, in 2018, and 49 victims, including 5 dead, in 2019. The Malian security forces had 187 victims, 51 of them dead, in 2018 and 148 victims in 2019, 48 of them dead. The other forces present, namely those of the G5 Sahel, EUTM, EUCAP and Barkhane, have had a total of 68 victims, including 25 dead in 2018 and 42 victims in 2019, including 3 dead. French troops engaged mainly in Operation Barkhane lost 27 troops in Mali between 2013 and the end of 2018. FDI led to the death of seven French military personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u53	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive report and the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u54	Minister, you recently reconfirmed after an oral question in committee and ask in the media the phasing-out plan which, after almost five years, provides for a gradual and progressive withdrawal of the security mission by the federal police. In a first phase, another 200 soldiers and a rapidly deployable reserve of 100 soldiers would be needed to support the integrated police. As of September 2020, the plan is for the police to re-implement the security of its sites. Only the nuclear sites in Flanders would require the deployment of 30 soldiers until a date to be determined, your answer was in the committee meeting of 18 December 2019. The federal police want a global agreement on this issue, including on a sunny level. Apparently there is still some defect and there is no global agreement, as the Minister of the Interior was surprised by your announcement as Minister of Defence. According to him, the issue was not yet discussed or discussed at the Council of Ministers and the number of soldiers on the street, as part of Operation Vigilant Guardian, would for the time being remain at the maximum of 550. What is the current state of the phasing-out plan? Has the plan been discussed at the Council of Ministers? If so, when and what is the result? Have you already had bilateral consultations with your colleague, the Minister for the Interior, and what was the result of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u55	Minister, the honourable Member has already outlined the situation in some detail. Of course, your ruling on 200 soldiers raises questions, especially as the Minister of the Interior was surprised. I also read the statement of Major General Johan Peeters that the phasing-out plan had been forwarded to the federal police. Something's not right there. In fact, I have the same questions as my colleague. What intentions are there with regard to the phasing-out? The most recent decision of the Council of Ministers concerned 550 people. In the meantime, was there a new discussion in the Council of Ministers or is the item on the agenda? How's the meeting with the federal police coming along?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u56	Mr.President, Minister, since January 2015, military patrols have been supporting the police in crucial places. At one point, there were even 1,800 soldiers on the streets. According to the latest figures I have in my possession, 415 soldiers would patrol permanently. However, the press reported that you wanted fewer soldiers on the streets, so you would like to respond to the military's demand that surveillance orders be reduced in Antwerp and Brussels. According to you, this number can be reduced to 200 actual people and 100 people on reserve. To implement this decision, you would only wait for the approval of the Inland FPS. Following this new announcement, your colleague in charge of the Interior said he was surprised. So, Minister, could you please indicate the status of the discussions between your ministry, your colleague and the Home SPF on the future of Operation Vigilant Guardian? How do you think it should evolve in 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u57	Mr President, Minister, we know that with the developments of the OCAM alerts the question of the re-evaluation of Operation Vigilant Guardian arises regularly. That was already the case under your predecessor. However, during your visit, just before Christmas, to the soldiers whose remarkable work we welcome, you announced that you would want to reduce the number of soldiers on the streets from 415 to 200, in the coming months. This announcement raises some questions, even though I hear your willingness to consult with the Minister of the Interior on certain organisations already planned for the current year. Minister, what about the downsizing of our streets? Do we always do so? If so, under what organization and coordination with the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u58	Mr Minister, the issue has already been raised by several Members and it is of little use that I repeat exactly the same questions. The most important thing is transparency in communication with the outside world, but also internally. There is no way that two ministers can explain the total opposite. You should not underestimate the effect it has on politics and on the outside world. Minister, I would like to clarify this matter more clearly. I also want to know who spoke in turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u59	Since my intervention in the Committee on Defence on 18 December last year, nothing has changed about the phasing-out plan. At the moment 420 soldiers are still deployed 24 hours a day and seven days a week in support of the integrated police, of which 94 are available quickly. The plan negotiated between the federal police and Defense provided for a gradual and progressive withdrawal of the security orders by the federal police after almost five years in an initial phase, so that, from December 2019 onwards, 200 soldiers deployed and a rapidly deployable reserve of 100 soldiers would be needed to support the integrated police. As of September 2020, the police could carry out the security of their own sites. Only the nuclear site in Flanders would require the deployment of 30 soldiers until a date to be determined. This proposal was discussed at the interdepartmental level within the framework of the Strategic Intelligence and Security Committee and the National Security Council. The expression I had was meant to create a perspective. Indeed, I am one of those who believe that the role of the military, except for serious and exceptional circumstances, must gradually return to normal. That was the meaning of my expression. I have no doubt that this is part of the next government's discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u60	Minister, your answer is disappointing. You said quite literally that nothing has changed since your statements in this committee on 18 December. In fact, I had hoped that in the meantime you would have had discussions and that results would have been achieved. Quod nun. I am particularly sorry that your colleague from the Interior does not show the same ambition. That will be understandable from his point of view, but it is very important for the defence sector to quickly reach a coherent agreement which will also produce results. Like your predecessor, you put a noble purpose first here. In practice, however, this leads to little or nothing at the moment because we do not see any change in policy. Together with you, we continue to advocate structural consultation so that in the short term, Defence can re-focus on all the challenges ahead. The importance of this will undoubtedly be clear to everyone. I therefore hope that the ministerial consultations will soon produce results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u61	Minister, I can agree with you because I follow your vision. The message is clear, the threat level has fallen. In the statements of the people of the army one can read the doubts between the rules. Here in Parliament, several groups have raised this issue, indicating that many people feel the same way. I fear that this dossier is somewhat paralyzed by principled steadfastness. I hope, however, that you will be able to force a breakthrough. Everyone has their own job and there are other ways of guaranteeing security in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u62	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I agree with him: the place of the military is not in our streets, except in exceptional circumstances. What is wrong today is that all the savings made by the government, particularly on the federal police, mean that there are two to three thousand federal police officers who could fulfil this role. The Minister of the Interior, instead of being surprised, should, in my opinion, fight hicc and nunch and, certainly tomorrow if the CD&V is part of the next government – I am not guessing and cannot say it in the place of negotiators, informants and future trainers – because one of the stakes will be, alongside the military issue itself, that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u63	Minister, I understand that the threat level has fallen to level 2, but that certainly does not apply to all places in this country. For the N-VA, the safety and protection of our citizens is crucial. This means that the specific sites where safety level 3 applies must continue to enjoy priority protection for us. I am thinking of embassies and nuclear sites, but also of the Jewish neighborhood in Antwerp or the Jewish Museum in Brussels, where an attack has already taken place. After all, we are still living in times of terror and we must not rest on our laurels. I am therefore counting on you, as Minister of Defence, to give this priority together with your colleague for the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u64	Minister, in the context of staff shortages in the military, this is an interesting slope. It is now about six months ago, since the summer of 2019, that Defense announced that it would be looking for secondary schools where the Defence and Security programme could be offered. With the entire current hype around Kamp Waes I'm interested in getting an interim state of affairs. After all, I assume that, when a case was announced six months ago, there have been initial contacts with the school columns, especially since the training would start from the school year 2020-2021. So my question is as follows. What are the initial findings of the interviews? How is the initiative received by the domes? Has it been made clear from the first conversations? The planning was, as I mentioned earlier, to start in September 2021. Will that date remain the target? I also have a purely practical question. There were 15 Flemish schools. I'm assuming it's about schools all over the country. What is the situation on the other side of the language border?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u65	The lists in question have already been sent to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u66	Mr Verduyckt, Defence is currently working on a project aimed at introducing a new area of study into secondary education. The course should allow young people to prepare themselves for a job in the defence sector or other stakeholders in the security sector, such as fire brigades, prisons, security and police by means of training and information. The first contacts with the Flemish and French-speaking Communities date from 2018. The initiative was warmly welcomed. Other security sectors, such as police, firefighters and guards, were also actively involved in the discussions. Defence has since continued to work on the project with a view to a start-up from 2021. The number of schools is 15 in Flanders and 15 in Wallonia and Brussels. That number is an estimate from the Defense Department. These are schools where the seventh year of Integrated Safety is being offered today. The interest in the subject will, in our opinion, grow progressively. We hope for a few dozen students per organizing school.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u67	Mr. Secretary, I haven't gotten much wiser. However, I hear that you are continuing with the initiative. I will continue to follow it, because I think it is an interesting piste. Mr President, you indicated that the lists were concerned. Where exactly can I find those lists?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u68	They were charged last time on the basis of earlier questions from Mrs Ponthier and Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u69	In that case, Mr President, I will find them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, the subject was briefly referred to in the Special Committee for the Monitoring of Missions Abroad. We will therefore not go into the information that has been provided in camera. My question is more about what is published on your department's website. It states that in order to allow Iraqi military troops to secure their sovereignty over their territory, Defence continues to participate in the Building Partner Capacity program. Some 30 military personnel work there as advisers or assistants from a secure location in Iraq. However, in the face of the current context of extreme tension following the assassination of Iranian General Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad in an American air raid, the Iraqi Parliament called on the government to expel American troops from the country. The resigned Prime Minister Adel Abdel-Mehdi denounced "a political assassination" which left only two choices: "calling foreign troops to leave immediately or reviewing their mandate through a parliamentary process." I would therefore like you, Mr Minister, to indicate what analysis you are making of the situation and, above all, its consequences for the presence of the Belgian military on the spot. What position does our country stand in the international coalition against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u71	Minister, like Mr Lacroix, I would like an update on the military situation in Iraq in response to the tensions there. I have the following specific questions. Has there been any change or the arrival of the Belgian military presence in Iraq? What security measures are being taken for the Belgian military on the ground? That is, of course, a very pressing question after the Iranian missile attacks on a number of bases. What is the future of the US military presence in Iraq today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u72	Mr President, the death of Iranian general Soleimani causes intense tensions between Iraq, Iran and the United States. The language used by both Iran and the United States was mainly intended to appease its own supporters rather than seeking a direct military conflict. Both countries are currently demonstrating the will to resolve the crisis through diplomacy and do not seem to be leading to a further escalation of the conflict for the time being. Since its inception in 2014, the coalition against Daesh has achieved significant results. After the liberation of all the territories occupied by Daesh and the support given to the Iraqi security services, the effort now focuses on stabilization and reconstruction. The results achieved in the fight against IS still need to be anchored. The cessation of the coalition's activities is therefore not desirable at the moment. Although Operation Inherent Resolve's activities are suspended, all coalition members, including the United States, confirmed their continued participation. Belgium remains committed to the coalition, as confirmed by the decision of the Council of Ministers at the end of December to extend our military engagement. The Iraqi authorities have not yet announced any further steps to terminate the mandate of Operation Inherent Resolve. The legal basis for the presence of international troops is therefore currently unchanged. Despite the fact that the situation in Baghdad is considered calm, the leadership of the coalition has decided to temporarily stop all activities and move headquarters outside Iraq. There are no more Belgian soldiers in Iraq as part of operations Inherent Resolve and NATO Mission in Iraq, with the exception of a team in the Erbil region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirm that the anti-Daesh coalition was achieving significant and positive results, but unfortunately, on two occasions, unilateral decisions have called this coalition into question. I will not go back to the Kurdish episode, but to the Iranian episode. Fortunately, reason has taken precedence over the decisions of President Trump and the Iranian authorities. Otherwise, we risked a widespread conflict, while being aware of the Iranian nuclear dispute. I am pleased to hear that the situation is under control and that Belgium, together with the European Union, has made a positive contribution to the process of de-escalation. I hope that this state of mind will continue and that we will be able to continue this struggle against radical Islamism together and united.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I fully agree with Mr Lacroix's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u75	Mr Minister, according to the press, tests show that the Piranhapantser vehicles are not suitable for firing antitank munitions. The so-called arrow ammunition causes damage to the 90-mm cannon mounted on the vehicles. The 18 Piranha picnics we're talking about were purchased ten years ago. This led to big questions at the time, because the cannon and ammunition could only be ordered from Belgian companies. Moreover, the caliber was not a NATO standard. The questions raised at the time in the procurement procedure therefore appear to be extremely pertinent. Only CMI in Seraing produced the 90-mm cannon and only Mecar in Nivelles produces the ammunition. Nor is it the first purchase file in which questions can be asked. We have just talked about the transformation of the Pandur into a reconnaissance vehicle, but there are also problems with the NH90 and questions are also asked at the A400M. Firstly, what is the future of the Piranha people in the Belgian army? Normal ammunition can still be fired, but that's not their primary task. Will the vehicles be deactivated? Secondly, what anti-tank capacity will the Belgian army have in the future? Thirdly, what lessons can be drawn from the dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u76	Mrs. Jadin is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u77	Mr Minister, I learned from the press, as did my colleague, that tests showed that 18 Belgian army armoured vehicles were still not capable of firing anti-tank ammunition. The 18 Piranha vehicles had already raised major questions more than ten years ago. Unfortunately, I was not there, but I note that since my very recent entry into office - I was indeed elected last May - it is already the third issue that concerns military purchases. I'm thinking about Lynx or Pandur. I feel like I am living, as a new Member of Parliament, a surreal situation. I wonder when they're gonna tell me a frigate isn't floating anymore. Today, you have to make reasoned purchases. Public spending is compressed. Tens of millions of euros cannot be spent on a military purchase that cannot be used for the missions assigned to it. Minister, I wonder at different levels. Do you have any other inappropriate purchases from our army's equipment? Are you aware of any solutions to overcome the lack of tanks capable of firing these anti-tank munitions? Can you tell me what happens to the Piranha in our Belgian army? Finally, do you consider a new procurement procedure within the Department of Defence for future military purchases, so as not to duplicate the mistakes of the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u78	In 2006 Defence acquired Piranha AIV in various versions, including the DF90 version, at a unit price of €3.6 million. These vehicles constitute the motorized combat capability as set out in the 2000 Strategic Plan for the Modernization of the Armed Forces 2000-2015, approved by all existing government parties during the decision-making process. Piranha AIV's specifications clearly stated in 2005 that fighting heavy enemy tanks and armoured vehicles was not a primary task of Piranha-based motorized capacity. The Piranha DF90 is not a battle tank. His most important tasks are, in descending order of importance: direct fire support to Ascended Infantry, the destruction of reinforced enemy bunkers, the destruction of positions of machine guns and snipers, the creation of openings in buildings allowing infantry to pass, and anti-armour capability against older aggregation tanks and medium armored vehicles. For the procurement of Piranha vehicles, the Ministry of Defence strictly complied with the laws and regulations in force and consulted all the internal and external supervisory bodies, including the Finance Committee, the Parliamentary Committee on Purchasing and Sales and the Council of Ministers. Therefore, no errors can be identified. As regards the 90mm ammunition, several contracts were awarded to Mecar, since that company had a factual monopoly on ammunition for the guns. Since the Defence was not authorized to approve its ammunition until 2014, the first operational fire could not take place until 2017. It was on this occasion that uncontrolled and undesirable behaviour of the turret was observed. These are symptoms that have an impact on the operational nature of the weapons system and on internal and external security. The origin of these symptoms was deficiencies in the initial design of the weapon system, which had not previously occurred, given the absence of arrow munitions. After various test campaigns, the manufacturer proposed a solution with a combination of hardware and software adjustments. This solution was implemented at the end of October 2018 on the entire fleet. However, shooting with arrow munitions is accompanied by a particularly heavy load on the equipment, chassis and weapons system, and it could have a significant effect on the maintenance costs of the system. For this reason, it was decided in January 2019 not to fire with DF90 arrow munitions anymore. Arrow-type ammunition armored cleaning is only one way of carrying out the missions assigned to Piranha DF90. The main anti-tank capacity of the motorized capacity on the Piranha is provided by the DF30, previously based on the Milan missile and today on the Spike missile. The latter has an effective range of 4 km against enemy tanks and armoured vehicles. The Spike missile is also the main anti-tank medium of the Special Operation Regiment (SOR). In addition to the Spike, the motorized capacity and the SOR also have shorter range anti-tank weapons, such as the RGW 90. The capacity spoke will be retained until the Piranha roll-out. In the framework of the Capacité Motorisée, the strategic partnership with France, the Piranha will gradually be replaced by Jaguar and Griffon vehicles in the period 2025-2030. After the installation of the new vehicles, the main anti-tank capacity will be ensured by the mission la moyenne portée, integrated on the Jaguar and used on tripod. Since the Piranha are still in use and will be gradually replaced as early as 2025, the resale of Piranha vehicles is not yet relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u79	Mr President, Minister, it is clear that major mistakes have been made here. Defense's response is that the battle with heavy tanks is not the primary task of the Piranha armored vehicles. You have listed a number of other tasks, which are no less. A battle with heavy tanks can be an operational scenario in which the Piranha may be located. The Piranha must therefore also be prepared for this. I suppose this is also the reason for the purchase of antitank munitions. One might ask why antitank munitions are purchased if it turns out that the Piranha vehicles cannot fire them without causing damage to their own vehicle and to the cannon. That doesn't make any sense. We have already looked at a number of purchase files here. It is indeed a question of taxpayers' money. We must be careful and consider all the scenarios carefully before we make decisions on expenditure. I know that Parliament plays a role in this. Mr President-in-Office, you will agree with me that Parliament sometimes lacks the expertise to look at all this at technical level. Perhaps we need to get some more external expertise, which is independent of Defence, in order to be able to better assess these types of dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-22-55-commissie-ic094x.u80	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. Unlike you, I see significant errors in this and the others I have cited. We will need to act with caution for our future military purchases. I welcome the committee meeting which will take place on 19 February with hearings on the Pandur and Piranha dossiers, which will certainly provide us with further answers and questions to solve these various problems for our future purchases.
