ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic135x.u1	Madam President, I have two oral questions, both of which are based on the answer I received from the Minister to a written question from me. I will put my two oral questions one after the other so that a coordinated answer can follow. In the answer to my written question No. 13 on the fight against social fraud, I have noticed a number of things. As regards the number of checks and infringements identified by SIOD, there appear to have been significant differences between the number of checks carried out by SIOD in Flanders and the number of checks carried out in Brussels and Wallonia. In 2018 it is specifically about 8,203 checks carried out in Flanders, 1,282 in Brussels and 4,566 in Wallonia. What strikes me is the number of infringements detected in relation to the number of checks carried out. In Flanders, 28.99 % of the cases audited were found to be infringements. In Brussels, 45.55 % of cases and in Wallonia, 34.43 %. There are, of course, several possible explanations, which I would have liked to have found out. What conclusions do you draw from the figures, which show a clear regional difference in the number of infringements detected in relation to the number of social checks carried out by SIOD? The SIOD, of course, investigates different types of infringements and forms of social control. What forms of social fraud are the greatest regional disparities? The number of checks is significantly higher in Flanders than in Brussels or Wallonia. The number of infringements is much lower in Flanders. Have you taken measures to avoid a perverse effect, whereby companies would move to Brussels or Wallonia in order to escape social controls or at least think to do so? In addition, I would like to put my second oral question. The same answer to the same written question has already shown a number of interesting cases concerning the collection of administrative fines following the finding of an infringement. Once the infringements of social laws have been established, sanctions, sometimes in the form of an administrative fine, are imposed by the Administrative Money Fines Executive Board of the FOD WASO. From the figures I note that there is a long period between writing the fine and collecting it. For the period 2010-2018, it concerns a sum of almost €17,5 million in fines that have not yet been collected. Regional differences also stand out here. Of the administrative fines imposed in 2018, just over half of the Brussels fines were paid in September 2019, or 53% of the Brussels fines and 51% of the Walloon fines. Persons abroad have paid only 17% of the fines imposed. In Flanders this was significantly higher than in the other regions of this country: 68% of the fines imposed were collected during the same period. Of the fines imposed in 2017, 53% of the fines were already imposed in the Walloon Region and the Brussels Capital Region, compared with only 16% of the fines imposed on persons abroad and, again significantly higher, 72% of the fines imposed in the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic135x.u2	Firstly, what are the reasons for the administrative fines to be collected? What steps have already been taken to meet this? What measures are still planned? Secondly, how do you explain the large difference between the three regions in the number of administrative fines paid? What's the reason for that? Thirdly, a very large proportion of the administrative sanctions imposed on persons abroad are not paid. How do you explain this? What measures have already been taken to recover fines imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic135x.u3	Madam President, I will try to answer the two questions at the same time, because they are partly linked. As you know, with the reform of the social inspection services, we are drawing up an annual action plan or a long-term action plan, with clear priorities for inspection services across the territory. They are, of course, linked to undeclared work, major cities, social dumping, international posting problems and fictitious companies. Overall, the objectives and priorities for the whole country are the same. We do not keep specific figures for each region, because there is a full transversal approach and prioritisation. We have asked for more coordinated and joint action. Our action plan contains a very clear target of 10,000 joint sealed controls per year. In 2018, 14.000 were executed. So we are doing better than we had planned, because we are doing more checks. You may be surprised, but if you look at the distribution of employers, so how many employers there are in each part of the country, you will see that there is a match. About 60% of the checks should then be carried out in the Flemish Region, between 12% and 13% in the Brussels Region and 30% in the Walloon Region. The figures are identical and can be explained in this way. There's another element that plays along. In addition to the social inspection services, which each have their own priorities, there are also labour auditors, who, together with people of ours, carry out field checks in the various arrondissements. Of course, different priorities are also laid down in the various districts by these labour auditors. This can be an explanation of the difference in approach, as a result of the follow-up of the collection and the like, because that is linked to it for a part. On the basis of these 14,000 SIOD controls, we can effectively see that there are about 30% positive controls in Flanders, 45% in Brussels and 35% in the Walloon Region. One of the reasons for this could be that Brussels has a very large city problem. It's about black shops, phone card shops, nail studios and the like, things that typically concentrate in the big cities. Of course, we find a lot of such phenomena in Brussels. This may be one of the reasons why more infringements are effectively detected there. In addition, we are not alone in monitoring Brussels. In addition to our controls, there is also the Channel Plan and a very strong fight against fictitious companies. We have also made a priority of the problem you are raising, namely that we are trying to avoid controls in Brussels. We work with the FPS Finance and other services to figure that out and check it out. All these elements together lead to an effective increase in the number of infringements in Brussels compared to the other parts of the country. The KPIs are also part of the reforms we have made. We have clearly made measurable agreements in terms of the number of checks and the probability of taking them. Those KPIs that have received the inspection services are mainly looked at by sector rather than by region. We are convinced that we must try to tackle phenomena that play. It is about the phenomenon of international postings, the phenomenon of undeclared work in certain risk sectors, the phenomenon of certain major cities, the nail salons and so on. We really look at each phenomenon. That is what we are setting targets for. This makes more sense for us. In this way one can also quickly map new phenomena. The SIOD also has a knowledge center, which should see if there are any shifts and movements. We also have a data mining service on it, which is trying to use the data we have to point to where we should be monitoring as a matter of priority. That is an answer to your first question. Of course, once checks have been carried out and infringements detected, effective collection is required. The figures you quoted relate primarily to everything that takes place within the Administrative Money Fines Executive Board of the FOD WASO. But there are other things. I was referring just now to the employment auditors. If they choose to work through the Justice Department and sue, there will be a verdict at the end of the journey and then there will be a collection. The procedure is arranged in such a way that if an administrative fine is not paid voluntarily, the file is passed on to the FPS Finance and a coercive action is brought. We do not yet have any idea what the results are. One of the aspects that we have stressed strongly in the reform of our social inspection services was what we call "the nine yards," nine aspects of the social inspections which need to be improved and which are now being addressed. One of its elements is to ensure that the results of checks and their results are traceable. Much more than today. It's not because files happen to go to Justice or the FPS Finance, that there's no follow-up. That is why we are now in the process of introducing a unique identification number, and that is why we are now aligning a number of ICT systems. There too, there must be a clear improvement. I hope that when you question my successor about this, you will be able to say perfectly how much is coming in through the FPS Finance. I do not directly explain the difference in payments in the different regions. It could be assumed that they are similar, because the procedure that preceded them, which I have just outlined, is identical. Payment is made either within the specified time limit, or after a reminder, and if there is no response, the file goes to the FPS Finance. It is not always easy to recover fines from foreign offenders. However, there is a procedure for this. For example, we can consider whether the FPS Finance can offset the fine at the expense of the funds remaining with the Belgian tax authorities. For example, the refund of VAT. That's where a deduction is made. This is a first possibility, which is not very clear in these figures. The Social Criminal Code provides for a second possibility, following the transposition of European legislation on cross-border recovery of administrative sanctions. It allows us to call on the foreign recovery services to recover the administrative fine in that country. Of course, that doesn't run smoothly everywhere. That is why we started concluding bilateral agreements three years ago. That is one of the operational possibilities for improving collection. This cross-border problem remains a focus of attention. That is why, at European level, on the European Platform on Undeclared Work, we strongly insist that we have better access to foreign data and that procedures are made easier. In addition to imposing a fine as such, we can impose other measures. For example, last year we withdrew about 1,700 A1 tests. This means that these people are no longer allowed to work here, with which the fraud stops de facto. This will be followed up, and in this way the mechanisms at the source will be paralysed and punished. At least these people have to go back to their country and can't work here anymore. These were in globo a number of elements in answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic135x.u4	Thank you for your reply, Minister. As regards the number of checks and infringements, I assume that the number of companies in the three regions of this country is in proportion to the number of checks. Of course, the number of infringements in relation to the number of checks in Brussels is significantly higher than in Flanders and Wallonia, even though in Flanders it is still more than 5%, which is not meaningless, and Flanders it is closer to Wallonia in that area. Brussels is the outlier of the three. You have given a number of possible explanations, which are mainly related to the metropolitan problem. Is that the only cause? In Flanders and Wallonia there are also some cities of some size with the same challenges. I am therefore not convinced that the metropolitan problem is the only cause. I do not want to say that I do think I know the cause. In particular, I would like to point out that it is important, one way or another, including data mining, to look for explanations and links between the different indicators, so that we can put our finger on causes. You have given very justified and as careful a statement as possible. That was very fair. I support you in this, but I think it is important that we do point the finger at the causes. In this way, first of all, we can avoid the emergence of wild stories, which have little to do with reality and truth. That's no good to anyone. Secondly, we will be able to use the controls as accurately and effectively as possible. 14,000 checks is a big deal. There are 4,000 more than the set target and they also cost people and resources. It is therefore important that we know the causes if we are to continue and strengthen the fight against fraud where necessary. As regards the collection of administrative fines, the total sum of unpaid fines to the FOD WASO in the period 2010 to 2018 would be EUR 17.5 million. If I have understood you correctly, you can always improve me if I'm wrong. We don't know how much of that EUR 17,5 million has actually not been paid today. So it is possible that further in the process of collection it appears that a piece of it has already been collected? I don't want to put words in your mouth, which is why I'm now replicating a question. I would therefore add that the results of the checks should be traceable by linking data flows. Anyway, with your answer, I remain somewhat hungry. I find it striking that the collection of these fines in Flanders is apparently much more efficient and effective than in Brussels and Wallonia. In Brussels and Wallonia, 53% of the fines were paid in 2017, while Flanders is 72%. Fines imposed on people abroad, let me take this aside for a moment, because that is a very different story. I believe that it is a form of justice and also demonstrates good and efficient governance if the percentages for the different regions are much closer to each other. I do not mean that the percentage should fall in Flanders, but above all that it should rise considerably in Brussels and Wallonia. That is why I did not hear a statement in your reply. That is why I conclude that there is still a lot of work to be done. In the coming weeks and months, I will continue to look for the cause, because I am very curious about it. I think something really needs to be done about it. It is not my concern that Flanders now appears to be a better payer. It is a form of justice and good governance. As you yourself say, the priorities for the whole country are the same. The collection of these fines must therefore be the same throughout the country, not only in terms of its approach but also in terms of its success.
