ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u1	I once again ask for the advice of the Risk Management Group (RMG). To be honest, I expected that I would have had it by now. Madam Secretary, you promised me last time they would be sent. You said at that time that you had a long, combined answer to my question about the Risk Assessment Group (RAG), the RMG and the Scientific Committee, their composition and their reports. Since 10 April, I have been asking about the composition of the RAG and RMG. I still haven't gotten an answer. Is it supposed to be me giving up? I hope that there will finally be a proper answer and that we, like the Flemish Parliament, will receive the reports of the RMG and the Scientific Committee on Coronavirus. I would have liked Minister De Backer to give me more clarity than he did last time. I asked him about the invitations to tender for the serological tests, which firms had been asked for, where there were many tests ordered and for what amounts. He then referred to a PowerPoint he had delivered. I checked out that PowerPoint; there's no numbers in it at all. I hope that this time there will be no fuss and that there will finally be answers. What more can we do than ask questions and hope for an answer? What's the point? Such sabotage is problematic for my job as a representative of the people. I therefore hope for clear answers to the questions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u2	I don't need to remind you that I'm following the patient's file closely. I can keep my speech brief, because I share the concern of my colleague. Yes, we're still hungry. Take home care: we have already mentioned several times that it is fine that the COOVID-19 bonus is arranged, but structural measures are also needed. What figures correspond to that? You said that the figures will be inventoried and that you will appoint an evaluation committee. Who's a part of that? How do they take on their evaluation task? What source is being used to release resources for this purpose? It may be interesting to continue to tap into the same source for structural improvement of fees. For example, giving an injection results in 5 euros gross, a hygiene 7 euros. It can't go on like this. In addition, I have a sub-question on the controls. The home nursing sector is already suffering very badly. This sector, if I understand correctly, accounts for only 3% of the budget, but receives 30% of the checks. What is your view on the controls in corona time? With regard to the health care institutions, you said that the conversations are still ongoing. You were somewhat frustrated that we asked again, and yet I will repeat my questions today, because we think it is important that the necessary resources are made available. I would also like to know whether you are using the BFM to arrange for more hands to come to the bed and raise standards. In order to deal with the shortage of care staff, you said that the unemployed will be trained, and I think you mean HBO5 training in particular. However, students from the HBO5 programme do not find an internship nowadays, which has become more problematic due to the four-year Bachelor's programme. Are you aware of this problem? What solutions do you propose? What about the EU directive in this respect? My final point is about hospitals. We would like to obtain the results of the survey you have carried out on this subject. How will you monitor that the funds are really being used to overcome the shortages caused by the corona pandemic, for which aid is really needed, and not to remedy the structural deficits of the past, as some Walloon institutions and politicians would like to see happen? At the last committee meeting, you said that the next disc is the same amount according to the same distribution key. But in the meantime, I hear from the people in the field that the psychiatric institutions are now included. Should I conclude from this that there will be less for each institution? What's the deal with that, exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u3	I would also like to endorse the statements made by my two previous colleagues. Madam Secretary, you heard, we're not getting any happier. In this crisis, problems accumulate, one after the other, one error after the other. As a Member of Parliament, it is very difficult to stay happy about that. In addition to the questions I have referred to, I would like to discuss a number of items with you. Firstly, according to a very recent newspaper article 5,000 patients would have been treated with chloroquine. I asked you at a previous committee meeting on which Sciensano based to advise against chloroquine. You said at that time that everything that is proclaimed by the scientists is also spoken to the government. They had based themselves on an article in The Lancet, which turns out not to be so scientific. In last week's publication, I read the doctor's statement that chloroquine would give positive results in an initial phase. I would like to know how you still distinguish between science and politics. I would very much like us to be scientific about certain information here and that Sciensano is doing the same. I'd like to have your vision on that. Secondly, with regard to the destruction of the strategic stock, there is one line of expenditure. I have already asked you whether the point was discussed in the nuclear cabinet or at the Council of Ministers. Apparently not. Do you hold onto that? You say you couldn't ask hundreds of millions to supplement the strategic stock. Why did you destroy him without having a plan to replenish him? Thirdly, I have repeatedly asked you whether there was a shortage of test material. In the beginning, that was never the case. When will you admit that there was a shortage of test material on 26 February and that it cost us lives? Finally, very topically, I am talking about the vaccination plan. I hear that other Member States are very much in favour of drawing up such a plan and having talks with producers. I hear you say again that you are waiting for the European Group purchase. That's gonna ring a bell anyway. I'm going back to March 3rd when you were waiting for the mouth masks. Is that how it's gonna work for the vaccines? Will you have enough? Have you had any discussions about the price at which the vaccines will be sold to Belgian patients? Have you reserved enough vaccines for our patients? I would very much have liked answers to that, Madam Minister, because I am very worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u4	Madam President, I have tabled four questions for this committee. The first concerns the maintenance of statistics on hospitalizations in the context of the VOCID. Women are known to have been particularly affected by the crisis. On the other hand, as they were still on the front line, they were overrepresented in hospitalizations and deaths. However, we do not have access to statistics on hospitalizations, which would be very useful in terms of reliability. I would like to know whether these figures will ever be available and whether you have already made this request. My second question concerns visits to the hospital during the deconfining. Since 2 June, visits have been allowed again. According to the returns of the land at my disposal, few hospitals again allow visits. It is therefore particularly difficult to live for long-term hospital patients but also for mothers who have given birth and cannot see their other children. What measures are recommended to ensure that such visits can take place safely? When did you contact the hospitals to inform them that these visits may take place again? Have you informed them of the need to allow such visits as quickly as possible? Could these visits be allowed for some audiences only initially? It is possible to proceed gradually. Finally, at this point, do you know how many hospitals can be visited again? This subject seems important to me, particularly in terms of the mental health of hospitalized persons. My third question concerns the presence of co-parents during pregnancy follow-ups, but also consultations for LDCs. Last week, you said that spouses can again attend the consultations. However, returns from the field continue to indicate that visits by co-parents are still not permitted by caregivers. So I think there is a communication problem at this level. When was this authorization decided? How did you inform health care professionals of the possibility of allowing co-parents to attend the consultations? Do you have any figures on the number of caregivers who again allow the presence of co-parents? Given the return of caregivers and patients alike, I think it would be really important to communicate again as soon as possible on this lifting of the ban. It is really very hard to live for mothers and this situation has a long-term impact in terms of the involvement of fathers or co-mothers in the life of their future child and it is therefore really important to resume these visits as soon as possible. Finally, I will not dwell on this question which I have already asked several times: there are always very heavy protocols imposed on mothers during childbirth, especially the wearing of the mask. I'd like to know if you forwarded the application to the risk assessment group last week. You didn't answer my question. Can you send a letter to all hospitals inviting them to lift these protocols? I think it is essential to allow these mothers to spend this moment in the least difficult way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u5	Madam Minister, I have two follow-up questions following the questions we discussed last week. You told me last week that there is already a refund in rehabilitation centres for dietists who help COVID-19 patients with their diet after hospitalization. You told me then that a pseudonumerary nomenclature had been created very recently, possibly outside the rehabilitation centres. You said you'd check that out. What's the status of that file? To what extent are you open to looking at a refund for this type of consultation, including for patients who are not staying in or connected to a rehabilitation center, but really for anyone who has been hospitalized or even diagnosed with COVID-19? In the Netherlands this works really well with a number of refunds. This ensures that people eat well again after hospitalization. That, together with kine, would give really good results. My second question is also a question we discussed last week, namely the obligation to wear mouth masks in shops. Last Thursday, a survey was conducted on this subject. Those numbers confirm what I was thinking. A third of the population indicates never wearing a mouth mask. A fairly large majority, 54 %, says that it is in favour of a mouth mask becoming mandatory in a store; 14 % says that a mouth mask should be required at all times and everywhere. You are not in favour of this, but you are still working on a communication campaign, in which a number of influencers or people who are being looked up talk about that social control to which you refer in an interview. They should indicate that if that one-and-a-half metres cannot be respected, then a mouth mask must be worn and that it must always be at hand and carry much more than it is now. How do you feel about a campaign like this? I think she's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u6	Minister, since the beginning of the crisis, your cabinet has called on several consulting offices, in particular to support the task forces and in the framework of "Data against Corona". To which consultancy offices have you used and for which missions have they been engaged? What was the public procurement procedure used and for what amount? In addition to the experts from the academic world, who have not been asked by the administrations, justifying the intervention of these consultancy offices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u7	Secondly, I have just learned that one of my questions (No. 55007022C) was finally addressed to Minister Goffin. However, it concerned a public health problem, since it addressed the presence of biocides in masks. From then on, I asked you if Sciensano's opinion had been sought. In other words, this issue was not about a defence market problem, it was about public health. So I don't understand why she was redirected to Minister Goffin. Although he buys masks, he is not in charge of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u8	Minister, an agreement has been reached between four countries – Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands – and the pharmaceutical group AstraZeneca for the production of a vaccine against VOCID-19 at the end of the year – provided, of course, that the clinical results are conclusive. At this stage, our country is not part of the agreement at all. Can you explain why? Above all, have you been asked to sign it? What initiatives are being taken by the 27 to ensure that future vaccines are made available within the European Union? Could other such contracts be signed with other pharmaceutical groups in order to reduce the risk of dependence on a single project? We know that several vaccine projects are being analysed. The company AstraZeneca announces that it wants to sell its vaccines at a cost. What initiatives do you envisage so that future vaccines can be financially accessible to all citizens? How can we ensure that firms do not take advantage of the crisis and competition situation to push prices? How can we simply ensure cost transparency in this area? My second question will be about serological tests, over and over again. Their non-use becomes totally incomprehensible. How do you explain that this rapid test of the Belgian company Zentech, validated at the end of April by the AFMPS, is still not used in Belgium, but in other countries (e.g. Italy)? On 19 April, Zentech signed a framework contract with the federal government to deliver 3.65 million serological tests. The contract contained an indicative delivery schedule. In view of this, at the beginning of May, a first firm order of 75,000 tests was to be placed. Prepayment was required at each order. What about today? According to some sources, the pre-order voucher should be signed by you, Madam Minister. That would still not have been done. What role does the RMG play in decision-making? Has there finally been a consensus on the use of these serological tests? How many serological tests have been performed in our country? Will Sciensano identify them in the same way as the PCR tests? Finally, at the previous committee, you explained that the public authorities had ordered other serological tests that had passed the validation stage. What are they? How many did you order? If you have a list of orders, can you send it to us? My last question is about testing. Today, contacts are increasing. Therefore, we are concerned about places at risk. A great deal of emphasis is placed on the protection of people at risk in hospitals, nursing homes, but also in companies. Moreover, some patients feel they need this PCR test to be able to travel. Minister, have to date identified clusters, areas where the population was more infected, other than nursing homes? Are protocols ready if a positive case is detected in a community? Why do we always refuse to test caregivers on a systematic and regular basis? Will the enlargement of the criteria be considered again in the coming weeks? As far as holidaymakers are concerned, how do you intend to proceed? Can the testing take place? If so, how? Are we going to use our theoretical screening capability for this purpose? Have you given clear information to doctors, who are sometimes harassed by some of their patients seeking a test?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u9	Madam President, Madam Minister, in Belgium and elsewhere in the world, the administration of chloroquine and its derivative of hydroxychloroquine to patients with VOCID-19 have given rise to controversy because of the published scientific studies relating everything and its opposite about this controversial molecule. Since the outbreak began, according to data collected by Sciensano, at least 5,000 hospitalized patients have been treated with chloroquine. With what effects? This is not yet known, as the Belgian study is in the scientific submission phase and has not yet been published. Following the study published in The Lancet on 22 May, which suggested that hydroxychloroquine increased mortality and cardiac arrhythmias in patients hospitalized for VOCID-19, Sciensano had modified its recommendations and warned Belgian doctors against its use. I asked you about that last week. Since then, the study has been decredible, but Sciensano's recommendations have not changed. Today, chloroquine is still administered in VOCID units in some Belgian hospitals. Minister, when will the Belgian study on chloroquine be published? Do you already have any information on this? If so, can you tell us more about them? At the international level, have other studies been published to learn more about the actual effects of chloroquine? Given that the study published in The Lancet has been decredible by a large part of the scientific community, why has Sciensano not changed its recommendations? Can you tell us how many hospitals are still administering this molecule to their patients with VOCID?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, we were learning this weekend that new VOCID homes had been discovered both in Beijing and in Rome. However, Beijing conducted a massive screening campaign and followed strict health measures, which did not prevent a new home. Two new outbreaks of VOCID-19 have also been identified in Rome, with more than 100 cases already detected and more than 10 deaths. Minister, the Deputy Director of the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday that no one had any illusions or thought that the problem was over. WHO also stresses that it will strengthen follow-up and really care about the situation that makes it afraid of possible resumptions. Apparently, the virus circulates less but does not lose its contagiosity. What action plan have you planned in case of a new outbreak of VOCID-19 in Belgium? Indeed, Pierre Van Damme, a virologist at the University of Antwerp, said: "The behaviour of our fellow citizens is worrying. The Belgian is happy to regain his freedom, but the Belgian is also sometimes careless." In this context, he also fears that tomorrow we will have consequences to bear. Are measures already being considered to meet the needs of front-line caregivers, who are already suffering from physical and mental exhaustion and who will need leave during these two summer months, like everyone else? Will specific health measures be established at borders as they open to prevent further spread of the virus? What specific recommendations will be addressed to travellers, in particular those who travel or return from Italy and those who may return from Beijing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u11	Minister, Minister, my question concerns the distribution of masks in pharmacies, strategic stocks, chloroquine treatments and international transportation. As far as masks are concerned, I was able to ask you about them last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u12	Madam President, I think you have forgotten the Flemish interest in the topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u13	The order on my list was just reversed. My apologies, Mrs. Sneppe, it wasn't intentional. Can Mrs. Taquin finish her story?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u14	Madam President, for once in my life, I want to stand up for myself. You do not give gifts to our group, nor do we give gifts to others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u15	Mrs Sneppe, if you insist, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u16	Madam Secretary, the saga of the mouth masks continues. Just when people think they've had everything, another body falls out of the closet. Avrox's mouth masks have not only arrived too late and one should not wash them at high temperatures, but according to what we read in the press, they are even quite dangerous. They would have been treated with a silver ion-based biocidal product. A characteristic of silver ions is that they never bind permanently. That means they're released, they're inhaled and they end up in the bloodstream. Madam Secretary, is this coverage correct? How did the controls on the masks go? What exactly was tested? Who did those checks? Will you have those mouth masks checked and recall them if it turns out that they are indeed harmful? This afternoon I got the message in my mailbox that there would also be something suspending on the hand gels that are in circulation. To really effectively protect against the virus, those gels should contain 70% alcohol. Samples, including shops, now show that most disinfectant gels do not contain 70% at all. Most come to 10 or 17.5% alcohol. Madam Secretary, what will you do about it? How are the gels that come into the market controlled? Of course, people must not get a false sense of security. Furthermore, an ambulanceman sent me a personal message. He said they're still short on personal protective equipment. In hospitals, too, there is still a very sparing use of mouth masks and other protective material, and in fact I still express it euphemistically. Is it true that there is still a shortage of personal protective material in healthcare? Are there any orders running? Is there any material being distributed? What's the status? Then I would like to talk about opening the borders. A lot of people start freaking out about leaving on vacation and booking a trip. They're gonna want to get out of their barn this summer anyway. I can't blame them. Madam Secretary, do you have a plan to get through Coronaproof this summer? Will the people travelling abroad be tested on return? Do you have a strategy on this? What is the advice of the experts on foreign travel? I'll get to the vaccines. Some countries are now uniting to be the first to receive vaccines while Belgium decides to wait. Madam Secretary, I'm getting a déjà vu through here because we were late with the mouth masks and we were late with the tests. Now, please, let's not be late with the vaccines. I call upon you to be bold and stand up for our people. You must make sure that we are in the front row to receive vaccines. I shall come back to the question raised by my colleague last week about chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine. Apparently that was a prophetic question because we could now read in the press that here too 5,000 corona patients were treated with this product. Apparently, all the parties had to repeat that question now in order to be able to put this spring on their hat. Are there any data available on adverse or dangerous side effects in these patients? What side effects were those? I also asked a question about Prince Joachim last week. In the meantime, we have heard that he has received a fine from Spain and I would like to know whether he will also receive a fine from Belgium and, if so, how high it will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u17	Madam President, Minister, Minister, I have some questions about the distribution of masks in pharmacies, strategic stocks, chloroquine treatments and international transportation. I was able to ask you about the masks last week. I have seen since the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association asked for specific recommendations and updates regarding the use and maintenance of masks that the State distributes via the pharmacies. Could you tell me what recommendations have been made, and what working methodology has been implemented with pharmacists in view of the contradictory information on these masks? With regard to strategic stocks in the event of a new pandemic peak, could you tell me what Belgian targets are for the coming weeks and explain our European bid for the storage of European medical equipment in our territory? What is this material? Will this also concern medicines? Can these stocks be offered to our people? How and by whom will these Belgian stocks and stocks be managed? On the subject of treatment, you have already answered us several times. From the data collected by Sciensano, it is precisely learned that chloroquine has been administered to at least 5,000 hospitalized patients. How has this choice been made in some places? Does the study allow for new conclusions regarding this molecule for the treatment of VOCID-19? Moreover, since yesterday, intra-European borders have been reopening a little. Could you please tell me exactly what sanitary measures such as distancing or equipment are in place on international aircraft and trains to ensure that the virus is not spread, given that the wearing of nose and mouth protection is mandatory on public transport, railway stations, airports and schools for anyone from the age of twelve? Last Friday we saw that our country must constantly explain to the Member States its method of calculating cases. Could you tell us what measures are being taken to best communicate the current situation of the epidemic in our country? What health measures are envisaged to allow Belgians to visit certain countries which condition their presence, in particular in terms of tests? With regard to the risks of a new epidemic peak, could you tell me what responses have been given to the EEIG experts since last week following their report and the concerns they expressed about our preparation? Is a new report on these preparations planned for the near future? Can you provide us with the work agenda on this aspect of the GEES Group? Finally, the company AstraZeneca announced the marketing of a vaccine by October, for an amount of 2 euros, in which several countries, such as France, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy, participate. Moreover, it seems that part of the production could be done in our country. Could you tell me how such an agreement is determined, considering that we are not part of it? Are any steps being taken within BeNeLuxA that you have initiated to purchase certain medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u18	I don't see anyone from the CD&V. If there is a CD&V member present, he or she may call me. I give the floor to Mrs Merckx of the PVDA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u19	I am still filling in in the context of today's topical and urgent debate. Madam Secretary, in recent days there have been many revelations in the press, first of all, about the saga of the mouth masks. We already knew that by the end of 2018 the stock of 22 million surgical mouth masks was destroyed. However, we have also heard that you have consciously decided not to re-establish this strategic stock. That was because the new stock cost 100 million euros, which was recorded in a note from the Public Health Office. You replied in the press: "Please note that we were in current cases during that period as in 2018 and that such a large amount would have been unspeakable." So, Minister, it is clear that we can say that the scary savings logic in which you and your government have been stuck for years has cost lives today. I guess I'm not the only one claiming that. I read today that Marc Van Ranst explains in Het Nieuwsblad: "If we had been able to start this crisis with a larger supply of masks, it would have been easier. In the residential care centres, fewer people would probably have died." The reports of the Risk Management Group which emerged also show that the guidelines on masks were clearly driven by scarcity and that, according to the reports of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the wearing of mouth masks, for example, the extension of the criteria, you were clearly on the brakes. We have talked a great many times about testing. We have also received some interesting revelations about this in recent days. I shall begin with a quote in De Morgen today, in which Mr Van Ranst clearly states: "The case definition at the beginning is deliberately very narrowly defined, contrary to the advice of the scientists." On 8 April 2020 there will be the report of the Inter-Ministerial Conference which shows that a number of participants are clearly committed to extending the test criteria. Mrs De Block, we are told that you yourself are slowing down and are advocating the roll-out of a realistic strategy. There can be no testing everywhere and there must be room for testing outside the elderly care institutions, you said. It is clear that you have been on the brakes in this discussion, rather than facilitating it. The third point I would like to address is that of health care staff. Its members organized an action this Sunday in several cities, among others in front of your firm. They turned your back on you, because they're angry. They are angry not only because of the crisis management, today, because they have had to go to the front without being protected, but also because of all the savings you have made in the sector, including hospitals, in recent years. I think I made it clear. There was destruction of the strategic mask stock. There has been a non-renewal of this strategic stock for savings reasons. There was a lack of reaction on your part, at the beginning of the epidemic, as was well detailed in the press, despite instances such as the WHO ringing the alarm. There was also your action, clearly established in the reports of the Interdepartmental Conference, not to broaden the testing criteria, for example. In the end, there's the anger of the nursing staff. Minister, in light of the above and much more, the PTB is seeking the establishment of a commission of inquiry. But don't you think that in view of all this, it's time for you to step aside?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u20	There are no members of Open Vld, although Mr De Caluwé had reported that he would attend this meeting online. I suggest that I give the floor to Mrs Fonck first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u21	Minister, I will not go back to the problem of vaccines against VOCID-19. Nevertheless, it is true that the announcement of the agreement concluded by Germany, France, the Netherlands and Italy with AstraZeneca for a volume of 300 million doses is calling for and, to repeat your remarks, unreasonable. However, what are the other possibilities? Have you reacted formally to these countries or to the European Commission? If you do not take another approach, it is obviously strategic and urgent that you can take the lead for Belgium yourself and ensure that doses will be available to our people. If you don't, you may end up with Gros-Jean as before once the decisions have been made and the vaccine stocks have been distributed. Either you manage to change the situation or you will have to act and make arrangements. I would also like to ask you about the updated home at Swissport Cargo at Liège airport. Is the situation under control? I think it is important to take stock of this. Have you had any contact with the Walloon Region in this context to ensure, as Minister of Public Health, that the screening, tracing and isolation components are sufficiently effective? Similarly, we regularly witness the emergence of new epidemic outbreaks. This is the case in a large market in Beijing, China, but also in Italy, where a double outbreak has been detected. During your exchange of scientific information with the various governments, have you discovered any evidence suggesting that there have been mutations? Furthermore, in view of the reopening of European borders, should measures be taken with regard to tourism, particularly in Italy? Finally, as far as masks are concerned, I will not go back to the deplorable saga with Avrox, but I would like to highlight two elements that I believe are paramount. On the one hand, in view of the fact that the specifications were clearly not complied with, it seems to me logical that these masks should be refused and therefore not be distributed. Although some insist that everything is fine, the government is not Avrox's lawyer, as far as I know. On the other hand, scientists and especially the Higher Council of Health, including the inter-federal spokesman, Mr. Van Laethem, confirm the need to wash these masks at 60°C. What is your position? Isn't it time to stop the distribution? If you continue to distribute them, you must be able to take on a range of quality guarantees. The responsibility of pharmacists is now engaged. A question arises about these nanoparticles of silver. Yes or no, are there any silver nanoparticles in these masks distributed by Avrox? It's a question of transparency. This could be a problem, as you know. With regard to FFP2 masks, deficiencies remain on the ground for caregivers and those who need them directly. What about it? Minister, what about rebuilding the stock in case of recidivism? Still on the subject of masks, Minister, will Belgium be part of the RescUE project to create crisis health stocks in different European countries with 90% funding from the European Union? I think this is an opportunity and we need to do it. I will conclude with my question on the Charter of Older Persons, which was announced by the Prime Minister. I can tell you that on the side of a whole series of seniors' associations, it's extraordinarily bad lived. I plead, if you make any progress in this matter, that these associations should be involved in the discussions. It should be noted that there are many younger people who are sometimes much more at risk and that the caricature of putting all seniors at risk and prohibiting a series of activities is neither sustainable nor scientifically correct. I think we need to do a good analysis. One person's reality is not that of another.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u22	Madam Minister, I too would like to comment on the fuss that has arisen in recent days as a result of newspaper reports. You would have indicated that the preparation of an operational crisis plan, in particular the creation of the strategic stock of 100 million, which the High Health Council and your cabinet would have called for several times at the Public Health Office, was not negotiable during a period of ongoing business. Madam Minister, was that estimate of EUR 100 million needed to withstand a possible pandemic or a terrorist attack, whether or not discussed at the Council of Ministers? If so, what decision has the Council of Ministers taken? If not, did that advice ever leave the cabinet? In my second question, I will return to what I presented to you last week, namely European cooperation in the search for a vaccine. The World Health Organisation adopted a resolution. You claim that immunisation against COVID-19 should be regarded as a public good for health and that everyone should have access to an affordable vaccine. These are important principles, which still need to be operationalised. Last week we read in the press, just like the week before, that these plans are very difficult to reconcile with the plans of individual Member States Germany, France, the Netherlands and Italy to drive for themselves. Madam Minister, once again I ask you why Belgium is not involved in this European story. How is it guaranteed that vaccines will be distributed fairly throughout the European Union? Mr Minister, I would also like to ask you about the saga of the mouth masks, although I hope every week that I will not have to say anything about it; that is hopeless every week. Avrox's mouth masks are claimed to pose a danger to public health. How many control tests were carried out, Minister? What about the World Health Organisation and the High Health Council's guidelines on washing at 60 and 30 degrees? Is there confusion or is there really a problem? Is there now an investigation into the harmfulness of the silver ion-based biocidal product by inhalation? Is that really a problem? I hear from colleagues that their previous questions have been referred to the Minister of Defence, but I think it is an excellent health problem, so I expect an answer from you, Mr and Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u23	Madam Minister, Minister, I thank you very much for coming to the committee every week to answer the numerous questions. It is important that Parliament keeps its finger on the pulse in the crisis. A possible second peak is already envisaged. My question concerns the preparation for that second peak. After all, I have read that experts suggest the possibility to announce local lockdowns. This could be the physical closure of a municipality or region, for example, but could also be limited to a ban on a number of local activities, e.g. a closure of the catering industry in a particular region. How concrete are the plans for local lockdowns? If a local lockdown is possible, who makes the decision: the federal government, the regional government or the municipalities themselves? What criteria will be used to announce such a local lockdown?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u24	I shall now give the floor to both ministers, who will have an hour and a half together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u25	Dear Members, I will try to deal with your questions thematically. Once again, it was asked why, at the start of the crisis, when there were a lot of shortages in the field of reagents, erasers and the like, it was chosen to set up a national testing platform. I refer to my answer to previous questions. We then had contact with several clinical labs and their suppliers, which showed that there were effective problems at that time. In the meantime, they have been solved for most labs because the orders they placed then are now being delivered very slowly. This allows them to be switched on in the different test strategies. You can also find this in the daily figures of Sciensano, which indicate that the majority of the tests are now carried out by the clinical labs. When there was an effective problem with the test capacity, we considered several options. We started with the clinical labs but that proved not feasible for logistical reasons, because of the uncertain supply chain. We then looked at alternatives together with the reference lab, Emmanuel André and the FAGG, first the universities and then the biotech companies. These companies have scaled up the process developed by the universities, which has led to the use of reagents and fewer reagents than in conventional clinical labs. In this way we have ensured that we have been able to carry out a very high number of daily tests during the crisis. That decision was adopted by the core on 23 March and this enabled us to start working to increase the test capacity. Capacity has been created. Today, 35,000 tests can be performed, knowing that with a third shift in the different laboratories, you can add 10,000 tests a day. This capacity has never been used. This situation is linked to the testing criteria. Since the beginning of the crisis, these criteria have been extended several times. We have already discussed this issue in this committee. The reasoning is always the same. It is after discussion with RMG and Sciensano that the testing criteria are established. Since last Friday, all people who have been in contact with an index case are invited to visit a sorting centre or their doctor for testing. Therefore, they have the opportunity to perform a PCR test to determine whether or not they are infected with the virus. The same applies to caregivers, those who work in health care. The testing was never refused. This is only a matter of strategy. You have to know how to do it. All health care personnel who have been in contact with an index case or a person who has been contaminated have the opportunity to be tested. In addition, various hospitals have already started testing their staff. Communities under the jurisdiction of the Regions have developed protocols in consultation with the Region on which they depend. In doing so, if a case proves to be positive, it is possible to test the entire institution, the residents, but also the health care staff. With regard to serological tests, it has been made clear that serological tests may be prescribed by general practitioners. They are reimbursed for health care personnel. These tests can also play a role in determining whether or not someone has been in contact with the virus. This information can be very important. It is well known that many call their general practitioner for serological testing, which is now possible. But if this test is reimbursed for health care staff, it is not the case for others who will have to pay EUR 9.6 – this is the maximum price as set out in the decree. Immunity testing is therefore possible. During the crisis, we tried to secure as many tests as possible, both PCR and serological. I explained this last time with the powerpoint presentation. I think I explained orally what orders were placed, but I have absolutely no problem repeating this very clearly. We ordered 1 million tests at DiaSorin, 1.5 million tests at Abbott, 3.6 million RAPID tests at ZenTech and 1 million at Octopin. We've secured those tests. That means we're making them available to the clinical labs to run tests. So far there are between 250,000 and 300,000 (...) preliminary studies and the clinical labs to see how we can use them there, if it depends on me also in the test strategy around contact tracing. I think we did our job and made sure that, at the height of the crisis a few weeks ago, we had enough tests to be used by the clinical labs. Suppose there was a second wave, then those tests can also be deployed at that time. So much for the most important questions about testing. For the different clusters, there are, on the one hand, the protocols determined by the Regions for schools, nursing homes, communities, etc. And on the federal side, we did the same exercise for the communities under our control. Therefore, the procedures are there. The Regions are building a front-line defence that will mobilise many more people, including mobile teams. It is important for the Regions to move forward as quickly as possible because it is really the first and second lines of defence to deal with in the event of a second wave. I just gave you the numbers on the serological tests. We have noticed that at the beginning many such immunity tests, even those with a CE marking, were not sufficiently high quality. That is why we have instructed the FAGG to further validate those tests. That's what happened. An internal procedure has been developed for this. Based on these test results and the availability of the tests, we started to secure those tests and placed the order I just announced. We've made them available to the clinical labs to start using them. At the moment there is no need to make additional orders. With 7 million serological tests we can talk about a strategic reserve, which can be deployed if necessary. The antigen tests are basically the same. An antigen test has been developed by a Belgian company. The validations were also carried out by the LHUB-ULB, by the laboratory of the national reference centre and by the CHU Liège. So there are three labs involved. They talked about a sensitivity of between 60% and 70%. Afterwards, other tests were carried out, at Iris Hospitals Zuid and the CHU Saint-Luc, where the results were less favourable. We have, of course, found that these have been carried out at various times in the epidemic, which can of course be part of the explanation. However, it is true that the federal government did not buy those tests itself, but that they could be ordered directly by the hospital laboratories. Remember, at that moment, it was intended to be used as a kind of triage, to quickly have a rash and to know who had the virus and who didn't. Afterwards, fees were made by the RIZIV, with regard to that order. So far, the distributor in Belgium has sold 87,500 pieces. Then there was a question about the further development of new technologies. As discussed last time, we have been looking for a number of weeks to see whether new technologies, such as saliva testing, can demonstrate the presence of the virus. A study was carried out in the scaffolding, led by Sciensano and with the help of the army, which makes a comparison between classical sampling, with a swap, and a saliva test, to see if the results are comparable. In practice, too, it would be more convenient to do saliva removals instead of sampling. If this study is to produce a positive result, we must look at how we are going to use it in the future. The federal government provides the swaps and uses the national validation testing platform for a piece, while Sciensano has defined the criteria. If sufficient tests are carried out and if the result is positive, the results can of course be published in a study. At that time we can also look at the cost and evaluate what might need to be changed in the procedures in order to enable saliva testing. The main questions are about testing and protection materials. Work has been hard on the protective materials in recent weeks. I can show that by means of figures, which I will now mention and also provide in writing in detail. In recent weeks, the distribution on the ground of approximately 100 million pieces of material, including 60 million surgical masks and FFP2 masks, 360,000 glasses, 30 million gloves and about 3.5 million aprons, are significant figures. Also recently orders have been received, so the number of materials now offers us possibilities. Firstly, we will see how we can build up a strategic stock. Secondly, we also want a decentralised strategic stock to be built up, which means that we are now distributing some of the orders received immediately across the premises, telling the health care providers in the first line very clearly that this is their personal strategic stock. That's what we're working on right now. For the decentralised strategic stock, in the coming weeks we will be distributing some 4 million aprons, 100,000 glasses, 40 million gloves and a small 90 million surgical masks. When I put the figures side by side, it means that today, in preparation for a second wave, we actually already have a strategic stock of about 18 million aprons, a small 35 million FFP2 masks, about 30 million gloves and about 80 million surgical masks. In the coming weeks deliveries will be coming in to increase our strategic stock. In comparison, I think I can say that the figures we can now present far exceed the previous strategic stock. That seems to me to be a good thing. It shows that we have worked hard over the past few weeks to distribute the material well across the terrain and to be prepared for the second wave at the same time. If there are deficits somewhere, they can be met with an emergency delivery. Rather, I am getting other signals, namely that we need to think about how we will organise the decentralised strategic stock. Of course, that requires storage space, but we want to give the people of the first line a package so that, if there is a second wave, they can immediately draw on the strategic stock. The same applies to the test capacity. We have foreseen that the central platform will remain in place until the end of September, so that capacity will be available. Together with the clinical labs, the hospital labs and the research institutes, we are fully engaged in anchoring the test capacity for afterwards. We are making every effort to avoid shortages when there is a second wave. In addition, we look at national production. You have already noticed that surgical masks are being produced in our country and FFP2 masks will be produced by the end of the summer. We have already built up a lot of production capacity in the field of testing, from tubes to erasers and reagents. This means that we have become less dependent on abroad in recent weeks. That can only reassure us and help us with a second wave. At the same time, we are also on other slopes. One of these runs is the European stock. We participated in a call for projects for RESCUE. I think the deadline was June 5 and we presented our project before that date. These are additional funding for the construction of a strategic stock for Europe. We were candidates for the management of this strategic stock. We are negotiating, at European level, what materials and volumes are being discussed. Other countries have applied. We are looking at how we can participate and deal with this with other countries. This will increase the response capacity at European level. This is important in a context where the virus has hit several countries more or less at the same time. This will also increase preparedness at European level. It is important for us to be part of this European project as well. We were candidates for some materials: FFP2 and FFP3 masks, gloves, blouses, protective goggles. Several materials are part of this offer, which was presented by Belgium at European level. In doing so, I have answered the most important questions about protective materials. The Council of State made it clear a few weeks ago that the competence for contact tracing lies with the regional authorities, Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, and that there should be a cooperation agreement to establish a solid legal basis for the contact investigation and application, with the federal government having a supporting role. The negotiations are in the process of developing the legal framework in the form of the cooperation agreement. This will be discussed again tomorrow at the Inter-Ministerial Conference and hopefully the negotiations will produce results so that the legislative work in the various parliaments can be effectively started. Work has already been done day and night to bring the file to a successful conclusion. With regard to the use of an application, subject of discussion, it is up to the regions to decide whether or not they want to use such an application. I understand from public statements that two of the three regions wish to use an application. The federal government has also always said that such an application can be an addition to the manual contact investigation. The legal basis for this will have to be put in place as soon as possible. Cooperation with the Länder is very constructive. It is, of course, important to stress the urgency of the problem. The establishment of a cooperation agreement would require a great deal of time under normal circumstances. We urge everyone to speed up so that the cooperation agreement can effectively provide the legal basis for the implementation of the app and the regions in the dossier can make clear progress. A question was asked about support in the various working groups and task forces. I have already replied extensively to this at previous committee meetings. We have used the existing framework contract between the government and Deloitte; no new tender has been launched. On this basis, Deloitte provided support to increase the efficiency of the Task Force Testing, which is responsible for processes such as procurement, logistics and also manages the various projects. This has also happened for the Task Force Data & Technology against Corona. There is input from external experts who have previously gained experience abroad on how data and telecom data can be used in mapping a pandemic. There is also the input of expertise on those specific purchases. That must certainly not be seen as distrust of the administration, quite the contrary. Our officials have worked day and night, with a lot of expertise, with diligence, with a lot of courage and effort and have done a huge amount of hard work. I'm very grateful to them for that. But specific purchases abroad require a very own expertise, which is not classically present at a government, because normally hospitals and residential care centres do that kind of purchase themselves. In this respect, we really needed that external expertise. I have also seen that the government teams and the external consultants have found each other very quickly on the ground. With this additional expertise, they have been working together to solve the problems and in many cases they have succeeded very well and very quickly. I would like to make one final point. We have needed this expertise at certain times, but now that we return to normality, we have also immediately decided to close down a number of contracts. For example, the Task Force Data contract was terminated a few weeks ago, because we were able to transfer all the models and the analysis of the telecom data to Sciensano. It is intended that the accumulated expertise, knowledge and skills, the good to know, the things that have gone wrong and the lessons learned will be transferred to the administrations in their entirety; that we will see how we can strengthen the administrations and how we can preserve that knowledge and that in the future the administrations will be able to manage such files perfectly themselves. If external support is still needed, it can be reactivated via window contracts or through very fast marchés publics. We actually install a watchflame function in the various services. That also covers the question of everything concerning the consultation. I shall briefly look at the additional, topical questions. I have been very clear about the ordering of serological tests and the consulting. Yes, serology is available for patients. Between 250,000 and 300,000 tests are carried out in a secure manner, as I explained. Similarly, I have provided figures for strategic deployment stocks. Our philosophy is that front-line healthcare professionals must have a stock that is decentralized. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I think that answers most of the questions. If I've forgotten something, I'd like to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u26	Colleagues, as regards Mrs Van Camp's question on hospital funding, 117 hospitals responded to the survey I referred to last week. The administration is still working on the analysis. So I can't give you any more information. Advances are indeed divided on the basis of a provisional key and into two discs. This will, of course, reduce the amounts: the first part was EUR 500 million instead of EUR 1 billion and now the psychiatric hospitals are also involved. Will the advances be regularised? They're still advances. We hope to be able to regularise the first one of EUR 1 billion by October 2020. That's being prepared now. As far as the additional costs for the month of May are concerned, in the coming weeks, the technical sub-group of the Federal Council will discuss this matter with my administration. Rebooting requires certain safety and hygiene measures. The fact that capacity must be kept free or that it must be possible to release quickly in the event of a second wave does indeed affect the functioning of each hospital. Article 101 of the Hospital Act, on which we can base ourselves, clearly states that the aim is to cover the costs and additional costs associated with the pandemic. That's what I said. Mrs Van Camp, I believe that the regions do not intend to confuse the problems of the COOVID-19 costs and the possible problems of the historical deficit, whether in Flanders or Wallonia. It is quite clear that we must all work together to ensure that the financial viability of the sector is preserved. This is the only way to deal with a possible second wave with full capacity. Mrs. Van Camp, about home care. At present, the RIZIV does not have the data on the new COOVID-19 provisions. They would be available in the coming days and processed by the RIZIV. In the course of the week of 22 June, an answer could normally be given to your question. Then there is the financing of the costs. For COVID-19, additional funding from the general budget is called for. I thought I already mentioned this. At the time of the adoption of the measures contained in Royal Decree No. 20 of 13 May, I refer to the position of the Minister for the Budget, where the financial impact of this Royal Decree, 157.2 million, can be financed through an allocation from the interdepartmental commission to the Social Affairs Office budget and a transfer from the Social Affairs Office's budget to the RIZIV through a specific amount. For nurses, this additional funding, without cohort care, was EUR 59.9 million for the adaptation of basic benefits and flat rates to 90% of the number of benefits in kind. For the follow-up of COVID-19 patients, this was 2.9 million euros for three months. This source of funding is currently used only for the financing of costs relating to COVID-19 of the measures contained in Royal Decree No. 20 of 13 May. As regards the evaluation of the nomenclature, at the end of May the Insurance Committee set up a working group on intervention in the costs incurred by carers for additional protection measures and protective equipment. This working group is composed of members of the insurance committee of the sectors concerned and met for the first time on 3 June. A representative of the nurses was present. It was a constructive consultation and on the basis of the input and additional information provided by the sectors, the administration submitted a summary note to the insurance committee on 15 June, with various proposals on home care. The note, the responses collected and the budgetary implications are now being examined in the short term. The RIZIV also plans monitoring of the new COVID-19 distributions. The insurance institutions were asked to provide the data relating to these benefits in kind more quickly than is normally the case. The analysis of this data and the use of the nomenclature will help us in the evaluation of the COVID-19 measures. You ask why there are so many checks, even in nursing. We know that a small group is cheating. The RIZIV points out that the home nursing sector is one of the few sectors that mainly operates through the third-payer scheme and does not charge brake fees. The insured person is therefore often unaware of what is charged in his or her name. I repeat, this is a small minority of the 30,000 home nurses. However, 11.2 % of the total closed check-ups of the Medical Evaluation and Control Office concerned home nurses. These files represent 65% of the number of fraud cases. When we look at the amount charged only in fraud files, home nurses' files account for 96% of the total amounts charged. These are mainly non-implemented benefits in kind. Mrs Van Camp, given these figures, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service will continue to carry out those checks. The department has good relations with the representatives of the home nurses, both on the Committee of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service and on the corresponding committee. These controls are also in the interest of the home nursing sector. For people who work seriously and honestly, it is good that the others are caught. In addition, the maximum available budget can be used for the majority of home nurses who do not fraud. An investigation may be initiated following an external notification or on the basis of an internal proposal from the inspecting staff. That's what's happening. Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Tillieux, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Merckx had questions about the vaccine. The FAGG follows the development of several vaccines against the COVID-19 virus. Six vaccines were developed in the clinical phase, two of them in Europe, in particular the vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and the MRNA vaccine, by the company BioNTech. CanSino and Moderna are the first vaccine manufacturers to report data on safety and neutralization. However, the level of protection offered by the products remains unclear for the time being. Mrs Merckx, Belgium has put in place accelerated procedures to facilitate the start-up and conduct of clinical trials in our country for the development of vaccines and treatments for coronavirus. Contacts have been established with various vaccine producers present in our country, in order to examine possible measures to promote research, development and production activities in Belgium. No price negotiations have taken place so far and our country has not granted any subsidies to Johnson & Johnson. The World Health Assembly adopted a resolution stating that immunisation against COVID-19 should be considered a global public good for health and that everyone should have access to an affordable vaccine. These are important principles that still need to be rationalised. The WHO will develop plans in the coming months to make these principles concrete in close consultation with Member States and experts. In any case, our country is an active member of the WHO and the European Union. Both bodies intend to develop vaccination plans at their level which will also indicate how and according to which criteria the vaccines will be distributed. In this sense, we have a say in these plans. We advocate that the distribution be carried out according to objective and evidence-based criteria. For the European Union, this plan is mainly discussed at the Health Security Committee, in which Belgium also has a representative. However, it is too early to communicate the details of this plan. Belgium has agreed to establish a formal European cooperation whereby the European Union, under the Commission's leadership, will negotiate pre-emptive rights with vaccine producers. The Commission is prepared to finance this right of preemption. This seems to us to be the most effective and appropriate way to ensure access to the vaccine. There have been meetings on this matter with the European Commission, in which we have participated. Last week Coreper said, also by the European Commissioner, that European solidarity is needed at all times and that they would take the lead in this process, together with all the countries that wanted to participate in it. With regard to the vaccine alliance between France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands, the four ministers of this alliance and the other European Health Ministers agreed in May to jointly draw up a European vaccination plan to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of vaccines among the Member States. We are doing everything we can to ensure that this alliance joins the European initiative, because working in parallel is counterproductive. Mrs Jiroflée, we do indeed believe that this cooperation should be tackled at European level. That's already happening. There have been meetings on this matter in recent weeks. Joining the alliance was considered disloyal by the European Union. The European Union has been very cool with regard to this alliance, but has asked them to include themselves in the European cooperation story. It is not surprising that this position was also supported by many other countries. It is not desirable that there should be no guarantees for all countries regarding the distribution and accessibility of vaccines. We know that the vaccine will initially be available in limited quantities. Priority will have to be given to those groups most at risk. The High Health Council's vaccination group was asked to make recommendations on this issue. I am sure that there will also be European consultations on this issue. We believe that an alliance should not be concluded with just one firm, but that all firms should be involved. After all, we will need all the vaccines to be able to vaccinate our people as soon as possible. Of course, we're gonna start with the most vulnerable people. However, given the low level of immunity in all countries, a lot of vaccines will eventually be needed. Many Belgian firms participate in this research. It is good that we can work with everyone in the same transparency and in the same confidence. That was the answer to the question why we are not part of that alliance. The European Commission has urged this alliance to enrol in the European story. I saw a message today that she will. I have a discussion on this with my Dutch colleague today. Many of you have asked questions about chloroquine. The Belgian study on chloroquine was submitted for publication. She's being "peer reviewed," peer-reviewed, by the newspaper. We do not know whether the article will be accepted or whether additional elements, such as additional analyses, will be required, which will postulate the timing of the publication. Mrs Taquin, it is premature to draw conclusions on the effect of this treatment on the Belgian population. It is also important to note that this is an observational study. Some factors that may influence the results are therefore not collected or studied. Clinical trials will be essential to verify or consolidate data. At the international level, there are many studies, but most have limitations on sample size and population representativeness and include the use of hydroxychloroquine in combination with other molecules or with various assays. A summary of these studies can be found in the recommendations of the Task Force Treatment at the Sciensano site under the title "Inpatient Treatment". You're asking me why Sciensano didn't change the recommendations based on criticism of the article in The Lancet. These are not Sciensano's recommendations but a task force composed of clinicians and scientists, the Reference Centre and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products, and it is Sciensano who coordinates and facilitates this group. This task force did not change its recommendations as a result of the deregulation of the study. Indeed, the decision to limit the prescription of hydroxychloroquine in clinical studies is not solely based on this study by The Lancet, whose bias was suspected of amber, but on the great controversy related to these treatments in general, with, to date, the absence of a clear demonstration of its effectiveness. These recommendations are continually reviewed with new public data. Mr Prévot, the majority but not all hospitals are involved in this surveillance. It is therefore not exhaustive. In addition, these data are collected in a timely manner and this monitoring has not been designed for per-hospital analysis. Mrs Creemers, you asked a question about rehabilitation. Last week I said that this complex case requires a multidisciplinary approach. Articles 22 and 23 of the Nomenclature provide for the necessary multidisciplinary rehabilitation services which can be charged to health insurance. They can be charged by physiotherapists and rehabilitation doctors who supervise the rehabilitation program. Other disciplines may also be involved. In addition to the fact that a physiotherapist or ergotherapist must always intervene in each of those multidisciplinary benefits, depending on the patient's needs, other disciplines can also be addressed, such as a logopedist, for example for swallowing disorders that often affect patients, a clinical psychologist, but also a dietician and a prothesist orthopedist. During the COVID-19 period it was also decided to provide an additional fee above the normal fee for those multidisciplinary rehabilitation services. This additional fee can be charged by means of a newly created pseudo nomenclature number and is provided because of the gravity of the multidisciplinary rehabilitation of COVID patients. It's only provided during the hospitalization of those patients. The additional fee is therefore not only for dieticians. The physiotherapists and the rehabilitation doctors can charge the multidisciplinary rehabilitation services and thus also charge the extra fee. The doctors will reimburse, on the basis of the fees of the multidisciplinary rehabilitation services, the various professional care providers who have provided the patient with care in rehabilitation. The dietists are therefore also reimbursed in this context. For patients who have experienced a severe type of COVID-19, for which the multidisciplinary (...) are only offered in physiotherapy services, especially given the severity in hospitals. Almost every hospital has such a physiotherapy service. If patients are no longer hospitalised or, as you say, have never been hospitalized, they may also be eligible for multidisciplinary rehabilitation if they meet the conditions of the nomenclature. Multidisciplinary rehabilitation can also be performed for outpatients. Because almost every hospital has such a service, it is sufficiently accessible to all patients throughout the country who have experienced a severe form of COOVID-19. Not every patient who has suffered from COVID-19 needs rehabilitation. Many patients who still need guidance after healing will also be able to be adequately supervised, not only with kinesi therapy. Sometimes, after healing, dietary guidance is also needed. Therefore, there are currently no plans to compensate for multidisciplinary interventions for dietists for all COVID-19 patients. If patients need dietary guidance after a severe form, they can only be compensated under multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes in almost all hospitals, but also in western patients. We will continue to consult with the professional association of the healthcare providers concerned on the more specific follow-up of some groups of ex-COVID-19 patients. Mrs. Depoorter, you had questions about cancer after the COVID-19 pandemic. Mrs Creemers asked about the same question. I will give you that answer. That's a very long answer. That hasn't changed in this week either. It is mainly about on-site care, although it was not intended to delay cancer treatments. However, some have been diagnosed later by delay. There were many questions about the strategy policy for the exit and the second wave, among others from Mrs Depoorter. We've been working on a plan for the hospitals for a few weeks. This is a different plan for the second wave than for the first wave. The emergency plan will be adapted to a possible second or subsequent wave. Hospitals have been commissioned to maintain intensive and non-intensive care capacity to enable the continuity of COVID-19 patient care and to deploy additional capacity. The Federal Hospital Services Board is also examining this issue with regard to funding. As has already been clarified, Article 101 of the Hospital Act allows the additional costs to be incurred. The financial aspects should be considered in this context. I have already replied in detail to the questions on support for psychological care during the topical and urgent debates that have taken place. Various initiatives were taken for the mental support of aid workers. Most forms of assistance relating to mental and physical support are competences of the Communities and Regions. It is therefore necessary to draw up plans at this level of policy. We have taken initiatives at the federal level which have already entered into force. Mrs Depoorter, you had a question about the GEES report of 13 May, which would show that 50% of the infections are care-related. We did not find this in that report. We did get this from Sciensano. Their data collection of hospitalized persons shows the source of infection for 13 % of the total number of hospitalized persons nosocomial. In other words, 13% of the population rose during a hospital stay. You'll make it 50 percent. That's a big difference. It's up to you to figure that out. Currently, the circulation of the virus is limited and there is a relaxation of the measures in hospitals. Someone's already allowed in. There may also be visitors. Hospitals must always be able to guarantee precautions. Strict hygiene is also needed. It is very important to receive more visitors. This can help to restore people in institutions and hospitals, but it is especially important for mental health, not only of the people who receive visitors but also of those who want to give them. I come to the new homes, which have been the subject of many questions. Consultations are currently taking place between the relevant services and the President of the GEES, Mrs Vlieghe. An evaluation of the approach of the first wave is made to be able to deal with a possible second wave even more efficiently. In managing the crisis, particularly with regard to consultation with federated entities in inter-ministerial conferences, we place a strong emphasis on preparing for a second wave. A framework agreement is currently taking the necessary steps to be ready, both for hospitals, the surveillance by Sciensano and the development of local teams for early detection and management of clusters, a competence of the Communities. Early detection and follow-up of contacts is a competence of the Regions. However, the federal government plays a leading role in the development of a second-line defence cooperation agreement. An Inter-Ministerial Conference will be held tomorrow. We want rapid detection, but also rapid monitoring of new coronavirus infections. In the first wave, various measures were taken to ensure the safety of care, as well as the establishment and financing of triage centres, sample collection centres and transitional care and home care centres. In addition, the distribution of personal protective equipment to all actors in the first line is still under way and will be completed at the end of June. As regards the workload of front-line care providers, the Framework Agreement on Early Detection and Management of Clusters and Small Homes provides for the provision of mobile teams that cooperate with the first line and which will partly relieve the above-mentioned providers. We hope to be able to create an initial support team per million inhabitants in the near future. The team will be able to share its knowledge and experience with the teams that will be set up at a later date. In addition, Sciensano is developing even more effective monitoring systems than before. We want to be able to work as finely as possible for detection. Mrs Merckx, you asked if the epidemic is under control. Currently, the circulation of the virus is limited and the reproductive number remains below 1, which means that 1 sick less than 1 other person is infected. However, we have to stay alert, because the recent relaxations have given us more contacts and we see more people on the street, on public transport, in shops and in the catering industry. So we have to be careful and stay alert. As far as immunity in the population is concerned, studies are continuing. seropositivity is stable both in blood donors and in health workers, which could also be expected. The latest figures reflect the infections occurring until mid-May, when we were only at the beginning of the exit strategy. So we still have to see what happened in the next few weeks, when there were more contacts. Questions relate to arrival at airports or access to European territories. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that several of my colleagues are also competent in this area. Various measures are possible with regard to arrival at airports. They are currently being evaluated. These include temperature control, which has little impact and requires managers to face many logistical challenges. However, this control is carried out in many countries. There is also the health questionnaire, which is difficult to assess. There is a certificate of immunity based on serological tests, but it is not recommended, as is the case with the negative PCR test. Quarantine is an important measure that needs to be considered for non-EU countries. The incidence within the Union is similar and therefore the risk of contamination between its Member States is comparable. If the epidemiological situation were to change, it could be re-evaluated country by country. Mrs Sneppe, you're asking me about holidays that are coronaproof, but they just don't exist. You can't live coronaproof: you can take all the precautions, but the virus is still present and so you can still get infected. The number of new infections is very low, but it's not zero. You have a similar risk in all European countries. So if you want coronaproof on vacation, I suggest you stay home. In the meantime, Belgium has advocated with the health safety communities for better coordination of external access controls at European level, in line with ECDC's recommendations. After all, we find that there are great differences in this regard. Note also that last week the Commission published a communication in which it proposes to reopen the external borders to the so-called third countries on 1 July. Here too, they are advocating a coordinated European approach which we, through the Minister of the Interior of Crem, fully support. We therefore look forward to progress in this area over the next two weeks. Travel outside Europe is not recommended, especially for leisure. In addition, you should stay at home if you have symptoms possibly related to VOCID-19. Voyager is therefore not to be considered in this case. In public transport, the wearing of a mouth mask is mandatory. So many ministers are working on it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Philippe Goffin, is primarily concerned with bilateral relations with all other countries, including the European countries. In Europe, Minister De Crem is in contact with his counterparts on the external borders and, of course, we are also in contact with other European countries as regards the extent to which the COVID-19 virus is still active in one country. There was a question about possible local lockdowns. A protocol has been concluded between the federal government and the authorities referred to in Articles 128, 130 and 135 of the Constitution establishing the generic structures for the sectoral health management of health crises and their working methods for the application of the International Health Regulation and the Decision on serious cross-border health threats. If it is found that the number of COVID-19 infections is high at local level, a number of measures could indeed become stricter again in the affected area. It may be about banning re-visiting in residential care centres or closing certain schools, sports clubs or hospitality stores. The regional, local or federal authorities will act according to the type of measures that are required. For the healthcare sector, the main indicator is to advocate additional special measures, the evolution of new intakes and the number of hospitalised patients, including intensive care. In addition, there are the signals given by the first line about the number of new infections or a fireplace of infections. Mrs Gijbels, the RMG's opinion on access to his reports only came in the evening two days ago. The RMG has decided that it will give those reports if Parliament itself asks certain questions. So it is up to the assembly itself and apparently it has already been done in the Flemish Parliament. It was Mrs Schlitz, I think, who asked me about the number of women and men, age and sex. You can find this information in Sciensano's weekly reports. On page 10, you are told how many men and women by age have been affected by the disease. Among hospitalized patients, it was mainly women who were affected with a difference by age. It is true that from the age of 80 they are mostly women, but we must know that there are more women over 80 years of age than men of that age. Women have a longer life expectancy. With regard to co-parents, you should not provide your marriage certificate. Whether it's a couple of two men, two women or a woman and a man, we're not going to question whether it's the husband. What matters is that the person has the right to be present. If you think he's the child's father, it's not up to hospitals to ask for evidence. We're very broad even if we can't go in a group with his partner, his mother-in-law and two sisters. That is not possible. Finally, less stringent measures have already been taken in hospitals, but it is especially important to be very careful about pregnant women. They are not at great risk, but various studies are under way to determine whether there are no more women who have premature deliveries. We are now very careful about pregnant women So far, that was not really the case. In any case, when it comes to pregnancy, there is a real risk. Mrs Creemers, I had another journalist on the phone last Sunday. I think it was Jan Bex who had sent me an e-mail with two questions about mouth masks in the shops. I replied to that too. I said that in this exit phase it is not mandatory to wear a mouth mask in the shop, but that the shopkeeper himself can decide to force it in his shop. Otherwise, access to the shop may involve too many risks, because not everyone has a separate entrance and exit. I have no problem with it when the shopkeeper asks to wear a mouth mask, out of respect for the shopkeeper himself and for the other attendees. I do not know whether the article with all kinds of questions has already been published. Mrs H annoyance, as far as your question is concerned, I think I can do it. Mrs Schlitz, I am going to send you a slightly more detailed answer to your question about visits to the hospital, but I think I have already said, on several occasions, that all the measures taken with regard to visitors are based on feasibility and the situation on the ground. With more than 100 hospitals, there are still many differences between them. It's up to them to decide. They have their responsibilities and, depending on their situation, they take action. The same applies to measures concerning the person accompanying pregnant women. In the case of definity in maternity wards, there is still a need to respect distances. The wearing of the mask is mandatory almost everywhere. During childbirth, I think it's not easy, but it's true that physical distance cannot be guaranteed. The wearing of personal protective equipment is essential. I understand that the pandemic and the measures taken are binding on many people, but they have been taken to protect public health and for the benefit of every citizen. As far as maternity and childbirth are concerned, I believe there is no argument to depart from the generally applicable protocols. Mrs Creemers, you had a question about the campaign to wear a mouth mask in the store. There is a federal campaign, conducted by the Chancellery of the Prime Minister with the support of the National Crisis Centre and the Public Health Office. An important part here is the importance of wearing masks to protect the most vulnerable people. There are posters, radio spots, banners and video spots, via traditional and social media. factsheets have also been developed. Everything can be found on the website www.info-coronavirus.be. For example, it also says when to put on a new mask. There is indeed also a group of influencers who support and positively highlight the measures. Those people do that to support the action and so voluntarily. There were questions about testing, tracing and follow-up. Mr De Backer has answered it in full. Mrs Schlitz, I have the statistics on hospitalizations related to VOCID-19. Sciensano replied that the information was detailed in the report. You will be able to consult them on the Internet, because I do not think it is your intention to listen to them. Sciensano has indeed observed a possible increase in the number of cases in Bilzen from 8 June. Two criteria are used to warn about an increase: if we see an increase of more than 20 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 7 days and if there is at least one case per day for 5 consecutive days. As both criteria were met in Bilzen, an initial e-mail warning for this situation was already sent to the Agency for Health and Health. A second e-mail was sent on 10 June and a third on 11 June. If the mayor says he didn't know anything, then something went wrong between the Flemish Agency and the municipality. The regional health authorities are competent to take health measures, but also to inform the local authorities. So something went wrong there. Ladies H annoyance, Taquin and Depoorter, you asked me questions about the presence of biocides in masks purchased by the Defense. Mrs Depoorter also had a question about it. The Minister of Defence has dealt with the whole dossier, but it is true that there are also aspects of public health. My colleague the Minister of Defence has also raised this issue of orders, among other things. Mrs Taquin, it is true that many press releases have been published in connection with the masks distributed by pharmacies. However, on the basis of the information available, the Biocides department of the Directorate-General for Environment (DG5) of the SPF Public Health, under the supervision of Minister Marghem, has examined the case of oral masks in fabric impregnated with Silvadur 930 Antimicrobial, which contains silver nitrate. To answer Ms. Fonck's question, this tissue was treated with this antimicrobial product in order to avoid the appearance of moulds that could cause unpleasant odours and thus prevent the deterioration of the tissue itself. The impregnation of the tissue with the product is not intended to give it any virucid or other action in the fight against coronavirus but to protect it from deterioration. Therefore, these impregnated mouth masks are products treated under Article 58 of the European Regulation on biocidal products, of which Silvadur is a member. As regards the human health and toxicology aspect, on the basis of currently available scientific data, the silver ions released by silver nitrate for textile preservation do not pose a proven health risk. Sciensano obviously followed the situation very closely in this regard. Ms. Taquin, with respect to GEES and her opinions, this group was formed by the Prime Minister to make recommendations to her on the exit strategy. I cannot give you the reasons why this was requested. I didn't ask. Of course I also received the reports, but it was to accompany the Prime Minister. As far as strategic stock is concerned, as of 21 December 2018, the circular "Budgetary prudence during the period of ongoing business" applies in view of the fall of the government. In accordance with this circular, some principles must be respected in relation to new expenditure files. These dossiers are limited to initiatives taken within the framework of four points. The review must be carried out by the Council of Ministers from the threshold of EUR 70,000. However, I recall that the Council of Ministers may decide to lower that amount even further in the context of budgetary restraint. It is therefore a matter of routine day-to-day management of administrative matters to ensure the proper functioning of public services; custody powers to be exercised within a given period of time; handling matters for which no new government initiatives are required and which the executive must deal with in order to ensure the continuity of public services, so that there would be no vacuum, which is detrimental to citizens; and urgent matters to be dealt with quickly, because otherwise fundamental interests of the nation to which the government is responsible are exposed or could be harmed. The urgency is now clear and that was also clear at the time when we started to make purchases, but in December 2018 that was much less the case. Nor was it clear at that time that the period of current cases would last for so long. I have expressed my frustration on several occasions. By way of illustration, at the beginning of 2019 we had a dossier on pandemic flu vaccines. We wanted to participate in a European joint procurement with two suppliers, so that Belgium was entitled to 6 million doses in the event of an outbreak of an influenza pandemic. An annual waiting permit of 2 million had to be paid for. We then submitted it to the Council of Ministers, including the demand for additional resources. The government agreed to do so, but the Minister for the Budget felt that we should compensate for this on our own appropriations. We did that, too. For 2 million we can, even if we have to leave other things to be done. We did, too. For 100 million, however, I cannot get that done within my budget, because that would mean that I would have to delete a lot of other items, which are also important. With regard to Mrs Gijbel's question about the Deep Knowledge Goup, I have prepared a long answer. It is certainly not a recognised health organisation and there is no serious publication on that name. It would be an investment firm in the technological sector. The methodology used to establish the ranking to which you refer remains somewhat vague. It's also a very volatile ranking. On 15 April 2020 Belgium was still in 19th place worldwide and the 8th in the euro area, while on 3 June, only a few months later, it was suddenly in 78th place worldwide, with a score of 498. My services say that the results published by the Deep Knowledge Group lack a scientific and verifiable basis and that they are therefore rather shady. I will let you have the rest of the answer and the explanation they give. Mrs Van Camp, as regards your question about the organisation of internships for nursing students, it will be no problem for you to obtain that information from your colleague in the Flemish government, Minister Weyts, who is responsible for this. As far as the plans to expand project 600 are concerned, we have indeed questioned ourselves. We have asked the social partners for an opinion and we have not received any signals that the internship capacity would cause problems within HBO5 training as a nurse. My associates have contacted Minister Weyts himself. There is no knowledge of problems with internship capacity either, but one would be sure to ask questions. As regards the conformity of HBO5 training with the European directive, I must refer you to the fellow Minister. Ms. Fonck had questions about seniors' associations. I think we need to be reasonable. Some seniors are healthy, others have co-morbidities. It is necessary to see the condition of the patient, how he is treated and whether his therapies are suitable for him. It must be borne in mind that if there are several risks, seniors are at the greatest risk. Mrs Merckx, on the case definition, you said that Mr Van Ranst has responded and that he is challenging the case definition. Well, he was on the Scientific Committee. If there is a consensus at the table, it does not give a pass to come back months later. The ERMG report says that I would say that it is not possible to test everywhere at the same time in the residential care centres and that there is still a need to test outside. By this I meant that the toilets had to be tested first with problems and then the other, until all the centres were tested. That's how it happened in the end, in less than three weeks. However, we could not afford to test only in the residential care centres. We also had to test in the hospitals and in all the people who were within the case definition. So you should not only read my words, you should also take into account the whole context and see what question this was an answer to. As far as the Swissport cluster is concerned, I have not yet received any information. But a meeting is scheduled tonight or tomorrow morning from eight o'clock. This will be an opportunity for me to learn more. It is of course succeeded by Sciensano as well as by health and medical services. As far as your questions on air conditioning are concerned, Mr De Caluwe, it is advisable to air-conditioning properly. All aircraft airconditioning systems were investigated. Of course, one cannot do without air conditioning in an airplane, but so far there is no additional risk involved. However, it has been said that there are different systems and that one gives more turbulence than the other. It remains very cautious, but so far no increased spread of viruses has been detected by air conditioning. They'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u27	We still have plenty of time to respond. I must express my apologies to Mr Creyelman and Mrs Sneppe, but I see that other colleagues are no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u28	Madam Minister, I do have a number of additional questions, Madam Minister, to start with about the national testing platform. The strange thing is that in his reports, the RAG says that it does not know of a shortage of reagents, but of a shortage of erasers. It is not entirely clear to me why they went to the national testing platform. In the past, these deficits have been identified as a cause or reason to leave the network of clinical labs. A number of points were also unanswered about the serological tests. What amount was ordered from each firm? Based on what criteria was it decided to just order from those firms? The test of DiaSorin, for example, is considered insufficient by RIVM, the Dutch counterpart of the FAGG. They don't recommend the test. The same applies to the ZenTech test, which is actually a self-test and is not recommended by the WHO and RIVM. I would have liked to know the following about Coris' antigen test. I had also asked the question in my question. How much was paid back, since it's all about community funds? How many of the tests were reimbursed? What is the evaluation of the test? How many cases did a PCR test have to be performed after an antigen test? So in how many cases was the test falsely negative? Madam Secretary of State De Block, on the reports of the RMG, I understand from your answer that I have to ask the question to the RMG myself. That's strange, since you mentioned the links were online last time and you had all the reports from the different expert groups with you. Nor have I heard anything about the Scientific Committee on Corona Virus, which was included in my question last week. I would also like to refer to a number of unanswered questions from last week, of which I still expect the answer, such as the questions about the number of infected care providers and the use of the teleconsultation. I have not yet received any answers to these questions either. I also seem to have missed the answer on the certificates for those who have to go abroad to prove that he or she is COOVID-19 negative. Some countries ask for such a certificate. I had also tabled a question on this subject, which I do not think has been answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u29	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Minister, listing good practices is a very good plan. I therefore hope that you will make the list public and that you will also list all the mistakes that have been made. We can learn from this, both from the things that we have done well and from the things that we have done wrong. What I have not yet received is the answer to a question from last time, in particular about the price paid by you for the consultancy. How much are the experts paid? What's their rate? Can we have transparency on this? Mrs. De Block, on the vaccination plan, I really have to say the following. We can't look at Fawlty Towers anymore, but people will start looking at the Health Commission. They'll find that very funny, too. How is it possible that we will be hurt again by the same stone? Firstly, as regards the alliance of four countries that have already made agreements with CSF, I would like to know whether the experts have advised you not to participate. You say that the FAGG is following the development of the vaccine and that they are focusing on the WHO. However, that WHO has let us know about the corona crisis and there are going to be voices saying that they are involved in certain pseudosciences. We are not really sure to what extent we are informed by them, and this could also be the subject of parliamentary scrutiny. What I find even worse, however, is that you say that the FAGG will also focus on the European Union. You have just said that you rely on and have a say in the vaccination plan of Europe. Mrs. De Block, I remember you saying here on March 3rd that you relied on the group purchase of mouth masks. A few sentences later, however, it turned out that you didn't know how many mouth masks would come, what mouth masks it would be and when they would be there. Is this the same here? Will our patients run out of vaccines? Madam Minister, the European Union's plan is not good for the Flemings. If the key that this government has allowed for the funds in the European Union is used, the Flemings will receive 6.5 million out of the 37 billion euros. If I were to convert it, that would mean that not even a sixth of the Flemish patients will receive a vaccine, but you say that you are counting on it. Madam Secretary, please come out of your barf, trade and make sure our patients get a vaccine. I'll get to the mouth masks. I welcome your reply on the use of the silver ions, but I remember a story of my professional toxicology in this respect. He talked about noble families who got drunk from silver cups and therefore cirrhosis. If we are going to wear these masks massively, how can you guarantee that there is no danger to public health? What is the added value of this antibacterial layer for fighting a virus? You say she can fight odors, but if the mask could be washed properly, then it is not necessary and we can simply reuse it after washing. Finally, I have heard your explanation of the strategic stock. So it wasn't discussed as such in the government. You have not had a vision of the re-upplementation of the strategic stock, not gradually, not acutely. That's nonchalance, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Your answer about the multidisciplinary rehabilitation in which the dietists play their role, also in the outpatient sector, is clear. I was also aware of the consultation with the professional association. I expect a lot of that. I also believe in the multidisciplinary approach to rehabilitation. I also believe in the multidisciplinary approach to primary care as prevention, but we will have that debate at another time. Then regarding obliging mouth masks and your interview with Jan Bex in the country's most important newspaper. I have remembered that you rely on the common sense of the people to exercise social control. You say: I count on common sense, people have to exercise social control, the shopkeeper can make it compulsory. I don't think that's enough. If I say to someone: I think you are too close to me, I would like you to wear a mask, then I get the answer: it is not mandatory, what do you say? You mentioned a campaign of influencers. Very good, but I don't see them. For me, it can go more and faster. We need to wear those mouth masks with more people, because for me it's too little, too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u31	Madam President, Madam Minister, first of all I would like to address you, Mr Minister. Indeed, I must confess that your answer to the consultancy fee leaves me a little on my hunger. I can understand that there is a framework market with Deloitte, in which one can draw at leisure. On the other hand, with regard to the missions requested, I wonder what the legal framework for these missions is. Indeed, when this market was launched, one could not imagine that it would have to be asked to carry out consultancy missions concerning supply chain management or legal problems regarding data issues during a pandemic. I am therefore quite cautious about this. I also note that in the documents which have been distributed in the Finance Committee, there are contracts of almost EUR 160 000 with Solvint, a company also specialised in supply chain. Is there a framework contract? I don't think so. I do not think that this has already been foreseen in the budgets either. There are also markets for YQ Purchasing, Kronos Group, Purson and Immax bvba. These are contracts ranging from 70,000 to 100,000 euros. What procurement procedures have been used for these firms? On the other hand, you said last week that two contracts had been entered into with lawyers under the "Data against corona" and the writing of the cooperation agreement. What is the amount of these contracts? Which firms are involved? What is the procedure you used? Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the information you have given me about Silvadur 930. I am going to do some research on European regulation, and I will ask you, if necessary, next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'll go back to the hospital statistics. In the Sciensano report, which I know, there are well-written statistics of confirmed cases, where women are systematically over-represented in the 20-59 age group. Second, men are more represented in the subsequent age groups. Finally, in the categories over the age of 80, women are in fact in excess. You are right to say that it is because of the longevity of women that they are over-represented in the older categories, but on the other hand a second factor concerns the gender issue: it is the over-representation of women in the 20-59 age group, on which I drew your attention. One of the causes that can explain this phenomenon is the majority of women in front-line occupations, both in care occupations and in cashier occupations. As a result, they have been more affected. Sectors are asking for statistics on hospitalisation as well. Indeed, the numbers of confirmed cases can also be biased. Testing has a potential bias. Women may be more tested as they work in more risky occupations. It would be useful to have the numbers of hospital admissions. This can be found on page 6. Gender is not included in this aspect. It would be interesting to have this figure to analyse the crisis, in case of a second wave as well. With regard to my question about visits to the hospital during the breakdown, I know that visits are now allowed, but it is up to each hospital to organize them. On the other hand, I did not have an answer on how the communication about the authorization of visits is made to hospitals. To what extent are they invited to organise such visits, in any case for those most vulnerable by the lack of visits? I mentioned earlier those mothers who cannot see their other children and who are sometimes hospitalized for several days or weeks because of a difficult pregnancy or childbirth. I'm also thinking about long-term patients. I would have liked to know what was being put in place so that these publics, as a matter of priority, could reconnect with the visits; and more broadly, what is being advocated. There's really a gap between what you're telling us in committee and the information I'm getting from the ground. Extremely few visits are allowed today. Even if each hospital organizes itself independently, you can, as the federal Minister of Health, send instructions to hospitals to ask them to implement certain measures. I think it is really important to insist on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u33	Mrs Schlitz, I have to ask you to conclude. You've been talking for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u34	Given the huge gap that is currently being observed, I would be very happy if I could learn more about how the information is being communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u35	Mrs Tillieux apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Tillieux asked me to excuse her. She also asked me to remind the Minister to send her the written answers to the questions on cystic fibrosis and UVC. Minister, I usually table four or five questions at this sitting and I do not always have an answer. Once it was not customary, I had only one, and I had answers about chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine. I hear that this molecule remains more than controversial and that we are waiting for a real study, serious both on methodology and on duration, in Belgium. I will not fail to return to you when we have more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u37	Mr Rigot is no longer here. The Flemish interest has already been excused. Mrs Taquin is currently taking part in the meeting of the Committee on the Interior. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u38	Mrs Sneppe, your colleague had asked me to excuse you, but I can still give you the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u39	Madam President, I was not sure I was going to make it. I'm on the train right now and I hope I'm sufficiently understanding with my mouth mask on. Madam Minister, once again you have given us very little answers. You too, Minister, have given us very few answers. For example, I asked whether there are any shortages of personal protective equipment and how they will be resolved today. If there is a second wave, I can imagine that it is the intention that the care sector should be provided with sufficient protective equipment. Hand gels are used in large stores and in other places, but my question whether or not they are useful was not answered. Madam Minister, with regard to my question on travel, it is not important whether or not I stay home. However, it is important that people returning from a virtuous holiday can be reassured as to whether or not they are infected, which is only possible by testing. That is why I asked you whether or not you will test people returning from vacation. Apparently, there's no plan, I'm establishing. In February or March, I asked for a plan to deal with the crisis. Let me repeat that question. Madam Minister, show us your plan, because if there's a second wave, I hope there's a plan and you're doing it a little more convenient and better than before. Madam Secretary, you have completely avoided my question about Prince Joachim. Doesn't Prince Joachim get a Belgian corona fine? That is a very simple question, which you can easily answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u40	No one is present from CD&V anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u41	Madam President, Minister, I think your answer is bold. What's going on? Today, a lot of people are trying to strike a balance. What is the balance sheet of tackling the crisis? That you've made important mistakes. You have not renewed the strategic stock, but the definitions for testing and the guidelines for wearing masks have also been set far too narrowly. Some scientists say today that this is likely to have cost lives. They make a fair balance of what exactly happened, but you seem unable to do the same. It is therefore necessary to answer all these specific questions and to call for a committee of inquiry. With regard to the destruction of the mouth masks and the fact that a replacement would cost EUR 100 million, the question is not what the Council of Ministers might have decided, but whether you submitted it to the Council of Ministers. You didn't submit it to the Council of Ministers. That is the mistake you have made, and we all know today what serious consequences that has had. You did not submit it, despite the fact that your administration had drawn up the note. You didn't do that because you've been in a blind savings logic for years and you don't want to get out of it. That has had very serious consequences. That's why a lot of care workers, as well as the population, are angry with you. I have a brief question for Minister De Backer. You spoke of a decentralised strategic stock, including the general practitioners, if I understood correctly. The material available to the general practitioners today, such as surgical masks and aprons, they use today. We do not treat patients without protective equipment, so I do not understand the logic of this decentralised strategic stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u42	I have received an answer to my questions. I understand that a number of steps have already been taken to work out local lockdowns, but that further consideration needs to be given to how they will be implemented in practice. I'm sure you'll be fine. I am convinced that local authorities will certainly want to play a role in this and take on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u43	Madam Secretary, I note that you are not allowed to play when certain countries conspire in Europe. I am convinced of the power of the World Health Organisation. I have also heard Mrs von der Leyen's appeal. But I am not reassured that there will be no double standards and two weights, now that I see to what extent those four countries have joined forces. What I'm also not comfortable with is in the masks of the Defense Department. I think you're reassuring everyone quite easily. I'm not a chemist at all, but it seems strange to me that these masks would be protected from bacteria in that way. Finally, Madam Minister, we all know the budgetary regime in current affairs. You explained that very nicely, but it wasn't really necessary. If I have listened to you correctly, you have simply never submitted the opinion to the Council of Ministers. You should have. You have not even warned your colleagues about the danger we would face if there were no strategic stock. I think that's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u44	Madam Minister, I agree with you on the European strategy for the vaccine against coronavirus. This is the best strategy, however, provided that everyone follows. Therefore, if France, Germany, the Netherlands and Italy continue to advance on their own, we risk being the pigeons in history. I therefore believe that the situation at European level needs to be clarified very quickly: either we are all adopting a European vaccination plan as partners or we need to find a plan B. As far as Belgium is concerned, I must say that I am shocked by the comments made by my colleague from the N-VA, who suggests that Dutch speakers would not be privileged, on the contrary. A vaccination plan is established on an objective basis, in line with priorities. I cannot imagine for a moment that scientists will make it a community story, as my colleague says. As far as hospitals are concerned, I am a little concerned that you are constantly talking about compensation for the extra cost of hospitals. As you know, as I do, there is also a need to compensate for the loss of funding due to the continuing decline in activity, as hospitals are now obliged to keep certain unoccupied beds. I therefore hope that you will take the various elements into account in this respect. The last point I want to address concerns masks. I thank the Minister for his answer to my question about the RESCUE medical reserve. I do think it is important to apply. On the other hand, you never specify what the objective is in terms of rebuilding a strategic stock of masks, while it would be interesting to clarify the matter with scientists, if not yet done. Finally, as far as Defence masks are concerned, I do not understand why we did not refuse delivery even though the specifications had not been complied with. The presence of silver nitrate is of some concern, and toxicity studies on this substance sometimes reveal a significant level of toxicity. Should we not conclude that the manufacturer compensated for the impossibility of washing the masks at 60 degrees by the addition of this bactericide, which is of no use to us? And, as far as smells are concerned, if we could wash at 60 degrees, we wouldn't have that problem. Minister, this is a real concern, and I think the government needs to look at this again. For me, this contract should have been refused because it did not comply with the specifications. Masks should probably not be distributed. Finally, I would like to stress the interdepartmental conference to be held tomorrow. The cooperation agreement must be achieved, since, as of 30 June 2020, there will no longer be a legal basis for manual tracing and digital tracing. On the other hand, I hope that the effectiveness of the "test, trace, isolate" will be further enhanced, because testing results still arrive well after 24 hours and, in my view, the tracing guidelines are still very restrictive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u45	I still have some punctual answers. Indeed, the opinion of the RAG speaks of no lack of reagents. Feeling on the ground was completely different. I think a number of labs have assumed the idea that, since they had placed orders, they had no shortage. However, these orders never arrived; a denomination was created on the premises in the delivery because the suppliers could not deliver. In the place of the 5,000 tests ordered they received 200 more. This has contributed to the deficit in the field, and that was one of the reasons for us to opt for another strategy, as well as a lot of other reasons which I have already explained in detail at other committee meetings. For example, there is the fact that other consultations had to continue. We couldn't let everything stop and had to safeguard the capacity. So we had an effective lack of reagents and wipers among others. As regards serology, it was effectively chosen to develop a validation protocol in the FAGG. Those tests are insured. I will not give you the amount per firm, because there are also economic interests. I have listed the volumes and outlined the strategy for using serology. There is, as always, some delay in the incoming numbers of antigen tests at the RIZIV. As soon as they are available, I will also be able to tell you the total amount of refunds for how many tests. The same applies to the PCR tests, which are performed after the antigen test. I will have to see if the dates can be linked and then I will be able to give you an answer. We will indeed list what has gone well and what can absolutely be better. An evaluation is definitely in order. Let me give you an example. A lot of people have offered help to deliver mouth masks. Only after a screening of the suppliers have we managed to identify the reliable suppliers. So now we have a list of suppliers we certainly want to work with in the future and one of suppliers we no longer want to work with. I announced the consultant's price at a committee meeting three weeks ago after a question from Mr Crombez. I also made it very clear at that time how it was achieved, and I repeated it in this committee. That was true for some of the names that were mentioned here. A hundred thousand euros went to Dalberg for the consulting work on data, because the agency has built up expertise abroad which was also useful to map the pandemic in Belgium. We worked with Deloitte through the framework contract that existed with the government. That amount has already been mentioned. I also mentioned the amount for the purchasing team, the purchasing team that has the expertise to purchase materials and goods in international markets; that was 300,000 euros last time. Those purchasers, all self-employed, including Cronos and SOLVIT, were appointed by urgent procedure, with a direct negotiation based on their expertise. They must be put in place as soon as possible in order to become active in international markets. The same goes for Eubelius, the law firm that guided us. This was done on the basis of a framework contract that was assigned to us through the Chancellery. For that cooperation agreement, the FPS Public Health has appointed the lawyers. The task force has worked with three major consultative blocks: for the dates, for Deloitte in the framework contract and for the purchasing team, which nevertheless had a very specific expertise. That was also apparent from the figures I quoted. Mrs Sneppe, you may not have heard my list of figures, but today our stock is many times larger than the strategic stock prescribed by the High Health Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u46	Some stocks of products already mentioned exceed the strategic stock volume expected a few years ago. We have also asked for a new opinion on the necessary importance of the strategic stock in order to update the planning. The RMG also validated federal-dependent volumes, making it clear that they were sufficient to prepare us for a second wave. Of course, we will have to take into account the national production we have launched. I'm thinking of surgical masks, FFP2, reusable blouses, tubes, swabs, etc. Therefore, we need to think about the organisation of a public market to secure these products in the future. The aim is to effectively establish a strategic stock for the first line in a decentralised manner. It is either used in times of crisis, and therefore remains untouched, or is systematically replaced by the health care provider himself and can thus be used, provided that it is supplemented. It is not intended to continue to make deliveries every month or every two, three months or until the end of time. It is intended that this really is a strategic stock that can be used in times of crisis and used or supplemented by the care providers themselves. In this way it will form a buffer in the first line if there is a new wave or a new crisis breaks out. For example, sufficient material will be available to pass the first days and weeks. In addition, it allows the strategic stock at federal level, at regional level, to be activated for rest homes and thus can be re-launched at the same time. For example, we are preparing ourselves for the three lines of defence for what could possibly come to us in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u47	Mrs Gijbels, last week I said that the composition of the RMG and the RAG can be found on the website of the FPS Public Health. All this is contained in the protocol between the federal government and the governments. On the advice of the RMG, I said last week that the RMG was still looking at it. Now the RMG says in its opinion that this should be requested by the assembly or by a representative of the people, such as you, who should clarify what questions he has in the opinions. As far as certificates are concerned, more than once we need to look at the travel advice for foreign destinations of Foreign Affairs. That depends on each destination. Today, for example, the travel advice for Austria has been updated: you will find there that you should not bring a certificate from Belgium. A few days ago, that wasn't so clear. It follows how it evolves in the different European countries: which countries ask for certificates and which ones do not, where is a quarantine required? Mrs. Depoorter, you're messing things up. You compare vaccination with a distribution key for European funds. That has nothing to do with that. I don't understand how you, as a gifted human being, can make such a comparison, unless you have some crazy intentions with it. I also told you that we have been working on the two stocks of vaccines for several weeks. There are the vaccines for the next flu, as we have done in previous years, and we now assume that more vaccines will be needed, as has also been shown by the opinion of the High Health Council. We also call for a European approach. The initiative of the four countries can perfectly be pushed into this, because they only have an agreement with one company that does not even have a vaccine yet. As far as that is concerned, I think they should look a little more broadly. So I will have another conversation this evening with my Dutch colleague, Hugo de Jonge. In relation to the plan, I said that this was not ripe enough and was not ready enough to submit to the Council of Ministers. If we had taken off the legislature, we would have succeeded and I could have asked for it. It is true that I could never compensate for the 100 million since we were in ongoing business. Mrs Depoorter, you have quite a pretence when you say that the plan was not ready and I haven't done anything with it. It wasn't ready, so I couldn't present it. However, I would like to remind you of the following, because memory is sometimes short. It is your party that started running in December 2018 because of a pact with which your Secretary of State had written for two years but who suddenly blew everything up because of the Marrakesh deal. As a result, we have been in current cases for a long time. You'll dishonor history if you forget. Mrs Schlitz, with regard to hospitals, recommendations were made and a letter was written by the Public Health FPS. But it was the Hospital Surge & Capacity Group that said that each hospital could decide the number of authorized people. It is up to hospitals and services to calculate the risk. You're asking me if the spouse is allowed for fertility treatments. Depends on the hospital. The information provided was the same for all hospitals. It is up to them to make the decision. Since this week, it has been possible for the spouse to attend ultrasound. For in-patient children, visits by parents have always been allowed. The opposite was not possible. With regard to the information for Mrs Tillieux on cystic fibrosis and UVC, my staff member is sure that they have been sent, but we will still send them back. Mrs Sneppe, if the handles are to be virucide, whatever the intention here, they must also be checked by DG5. If the quality of the hand gels is questioned, an analysis may be required. Mrs Merckx, you're always playing the same tune. Of course, you have a political intention. I repeat that I have no problem with a committee of inquiry being set up at all levels. However, I have already seen that in Wallonia your party has not had its way in this matter. Lessons can be learned from such a committee of inquiry. An evaluation will also be carried out at the level of the WHO and at European level, as in all democratic countries where the virus has passed. What you always do is threaten me with some kind of inquisition and blame me for all sorts of things in advance. That is, of course, your political intention, which has never been different. That's where you stand on the barricades, which is your right. You have been democratically elected. In my opinion, you're rather biased, if I may say so. Mrs Fonck, in my reply last week, I made it clear that two aspects of hospital revenues should be distinguished: the decrease in revenues due to reduced consultations, examinations, etc., and the additional costs. Both are obviously taken into account. The additional investments also cover additional costs that are not really related to the number of patients treated. This is why there are different distribution keys. In the meantime, work is being done within INAMI with working groups. I did not repeat these elements because I had already specified them last week. The two factors of lower incomes and additional costs apply to all hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u48	Minister, you say that you felt in the field that there was no shortage of reagents. Of course, that's vague. You also say that there was talk with suppliers and labs and that it was reported that there were problems, but I feel that they were not really spoken through. I know of e-mails that were sent to your cabinet in March, on behalf of clinical laboratories, saying that they had enough capacity. Those e-mails weren't even answered. How is that consistent with the research that would have happened on the ground? Furthermore, 7 million serological tests have been purchased by the government, some of which, according to the RIVM report, would be questionable. We can therefore have doubts about the amount of 1 million plus 3.6 million in total of 4.6 million tests. If I understand correctly, we should not know how much they cost. I have reservations about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u49	Mrs. Gijbels, that's an insinuation. I explained very clearly which laboratories validated the tests. If you want to question all those Belgian laboratories, you can do so. I have faith in the Belgian laboratories. I am confident that the validation has been done correctly and that the serological tests are doing what they are intended to do. I have also explained five or six times that we have had effective contact with different suppliers of different producers. The same issue has always arisen, namely that it was not possible to guarantee that sufficient reagents were present. There is, of course, a big difference between saying that we have placed an order and actually getting that order. The problem was just getting that order. That is what we anticipated. We have also anticipated additional PCR tests for other indications outside of COVID. At that time we also took into account the overload of these labs, the staffing and the locations. That is why the choice has been made, as I have explained several times, to work with the central platform, a temporary platform, in order to carry out the tests during the height of the crisis. The figures show that this was the right strategy, because between the beginning of April (...) we have the moment that the central platform has become active and... weathered that peak well, better than many other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u50	Mr. De Backer, I think we're talking side by side. My question is specific: how are the consultants and experts who advise the government in the GEES, the RMG, the RAG paid? At what posts are they paid? How much is going there? Can you give transparency on that? Mrs. De Block, there was a mix-up. Of course, this was an example. Of course, this is the Flemish concern. Will you defend us in the government as well as you have done in the distribution of European funds? If you intend to do so, we will only be able to vaccinate one sixth of our patients. When I talk about the alliance of the four countries, I refer to Germany, which closed the borders, which prevented the mouth masks intended for our country from entering. So there is a great deal of concern. Finally, Marrakech. If the answers are up, Marrakech is to blame. I would remind you that we were prepared to compromise. That too is history. Mrs De Block, you received a lot of legislative proposals after Marrakech with our support. So it was quite possible to put that forward, but you did not even say that to your colleagues. You did not bring it to the Council of Ministers, let alone Parliament. You did not even mention it to your colleagues at the beginning of this crisis, nor did you say it to us. We're not gonna convince each other, Madam Secretary, but do you know who's going to be the victim of this mess? Those are our patients, our caregivers, our young people who were indeed lost, our elderly who died without being able to say goodbye to their loved ones. If you're talking about pretentiousness, I find nonchalance to be a form of pretentiousness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u51	Madam President, may I say something about the insinuation that the government was unaware? At the request of the Minister of Defence to move the masks, it appeared that the masks had expired. So the Secretary of State knew that the masks had to get out of there so the hangars could stock other things. Then we've done an investigation through the Public Health Office. Then we've seen that the masks were decayed and unusable. We're not gonna give you any money to move masks that are decayed and useless. That is why we had the idea of doing this differently. That didn't get on the Council of Ministers. I've always said that. You say that when the arguments are dropped, the word "Marrakech" is used. There has been a time when your party could not say three words in a row without using the word "Marrakech," but that is not the case with me at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u52	Madam Minister, one more word, because I think it should be correct, moving is not destroying. We agree, you didn't bring it to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u53	Madam President, Madam Minister, thank you for this second answer, a little more specific. I will close by accepting your proposal to send me the document you mentioned in your first reply. Would it also be possible to have the FPS Finance mail you mentioned? Thank you. I still think there is a real problem of communication between caregivers and the government. There would be a real benefit in clarity and effectiveness in the field if a much clearer new communication was sent to the different caregivers, depending on their category, to re-explain the instructions that concern them. I hear you say some things that are not at all understood in this way in the field, whether with midwives, patients, or caregivers. In times of crisis, it is important to communicate well. A second clearer communication would probably not be superfluous. Thank you for the two documents you will send me by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u54	Madam President, I hope that I am clearly understandable, as I am taking a walk in the meantime. That way, you'll have seen all of Zedelgem. Madam Secretary, you have still not answered my simplest question today. What about Prince Joachim? Aren't the laws the same for all Belgians? To my question about the apparently poisonous mouth masks, supplied by Avrox, you have answered half of it again. I think this is gonna get another tail. I will save it for a question at the next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear the chloroquine treatment study is still under way. Similarly, the task force remains vigilant. It is particularly important to continue to see all this contradictory information flourish in the media. We obviously trust our experts. With regard to the study of GEES, consultation and coordination with federated entities are obviously essential to prepare us for a potential second wave. You maintain priority attention to early detection of emerging clusters. It is reassuring to note that the Interdepartmental Conference is on the bridge, given the division of powers between the Federal, the Regions and the Communities. Your response to the funding of triage centres is also very important, and I thank you for that. For mobile teams in support of the first line, if I understood correctly, such action would be carried out in each area with more than 1,000 inhabitants. I apologize because I was juggling with the Committee on the Interior. It was therefore not obvious to follow your entire presentation. I'll go, anyway, find out more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u56	Madam Secretary, it's clear you're a little tight. First, you say that the 100 million was too much money and you couldn't bring it to the Council of Ministers. You didn't submit it. Now you're saying that note wasn't actually finished. The same applies to the destruction of the stock. Those surgical mouth masks don't have an expiration date. 22 million masks were effectively destroyed, which were still in excellent condition. That was decided by your cabinet, that's right. It is clear that we have enough questions and that we need clear answers. The last stone must be reversed, in the name of all the victims who have fallen and to avoid a second peak. There must be an effective committee of inquiry, both at federal, Flemish and Walloon level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u57	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u58	Mrs Sneppe, I still have to answer the question whether I will give Prince Joachim a fine. His actions do not go unpunished, but they are facts that happened in another country and were fined there. I do not have any legal basis, nor does any other minister have it, to impose a fine on someone who has been caught in another country on facts that are not meant to happen and for which a fine is imposed in another country. Everyone's equal before the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u59	Madam President, on the order of business. I think it's a little disrespectful that people here are taking the floor while they're walking around a street with a walkman. I really don't think that's possible. Soon someone here will take the floor while he's jogging or showering. There are limits. There may be effective participation via video call to limit movements, but it has been abused.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u60	Madam Minister, the prince has also broken Belgian laws, because I thought the borders were still closed at that time. If no one is allowed to cross the border, not even to go to Holland to get a loaf of bread, then the prince may not cross the border to go to a lockdown party. However, I will note that he will not be punished by the Belgian government. As far as I am concerned, I should like to apologize, but at least I am making the effort to follow the sitting and, in the meantime, to go to a meeting that I have to attend. I will not take advantage of that, of course, but it is useful that we can do so now. So one can almost be in two places at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-16-55-commissie-ic209x.u61	Madam Minister, you may have answered my question, but to be sure, I would like to ask you what specific recommendations have been communicated to pharmacists. In the case of international trains, are any studies under way? Have any specific measures been taken? I would like to have the answers, but it may come later, via the report, if it has not been done.
