ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u1	It entered Mr Ravyts, Mrs Jadin, Mrs Dierick, Mr Bombled, Mr Verduyckt and Mrs Daems. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u2	Mrs Khattabi, you might not have expected someone of the Flemish interest to put an oral question to you first in this House, and then on the climate, in particular on the NEKP. The European Commission's report on the Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan was published on 14 October 2020. You know that these NEKPs are the key element in the governance mechanism set up by the 2018 Governance Regulation to implement the 2030 Energy and Climate Goals. With the NEKP, Belgium had to indicate how it would contribute to the long-term targets for greenhouse gas emission reduction under the Paris Agreement. Member States shall also set their individual renewable energy and energy efficiency targets for 2030 through these NEFPs. The European Commission has published its analysis and its findings on the Belgian NEKP, which, as you know, has been difficult to achieve. It's not integrated much either. We know the story of complexity. This has been discussed here more than once. The European Commission is keen on renewable energy policy, which would be "not ambitious." Belgium is aiming at 17.5% of renewable energy by 2030, whereas it should actually be 25% in order to reach the current European target of 32% by 2030. The Committee also believes that the Belgian energy efficiency plans are equally "low ambition." At the same time, the Belgian plan would be difficult to analyse because it would not follow the template provided for in the European Regulation. Anyway, that might be more of a designspect. What is your response to this analysis of the Belgian NEKP by the European Commission? Nowhere in the governance regulation shows what the European Commission will do in concrete terms when it fails to implement such a NEFP. Does the minister have any information? Then the word infringement proceedings falls, although it may be too premature to discuss them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u3	The next speaker is Mrs Dierick, but she left us. Then I have Mr Bombled, who is still here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u4	Minister, our country is one of those who have the ambition to adopt a strategy aimed at achieving the European carbon-neutral targets by 2050. In mid-October, the European Commission published its evaluation of Belgium's Energy-Climate Plan. This assessment highlights the difficulties of non-coordination of the four plans (federal and federal entities) as well as a complicated analysis as the Belgian contribution does not follow the model of the European regulation on the governance of the Energy Union and Climate Action. Indeed, some of the key competences for a strong climate policy are part of the so-called'mixed' areas of competence, i.e. shared between the federal state and the regions. This is particularly the case for the environment, energy and transport. The federal and regional levels have therefore drawn up separate plans and in the end, the plan submitted by Belgium is considered a draft and resulting from the uncoordinated stacking of the various plans. Although Belgium is committed to reducing emissions from non-industrial sectors by 35% in 2030, the Commission considers our plan to be unambitious. Another point concerns renewable energy. In this area, the final version of the plan submitted by our country targets 17.5% of final consumption in 2030. This target is considered 'not ambitious enough' by the European Commission, which had calculated an indicative target of 25%. What is your analysis of the European Commission's evaluation? What elements could be reviewed? What about the consultation with your regional counterparts? What are the avenues for improving intra-Belgian cooperation on climate governance? Is it planned to adapt the federal contribution to the National Energy and Climate Plan (NECP) in order to meet the new European Commission target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030? If so, what is the timing of this adaptation and what are the next steps? Thank you, Madam Minister, for the answers you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u5	"Mrs. Minister, the European Commission published in October its findings on the National Energy and Climate Plan to be submitted by each Member State last year. The Belgian climate and energy plan received critical comments. Renewable energy policy is "not ambitious." As far as energy efficiency is concerned, too, our country exudes "few ambitions." Moreover, the Commission does not consider the plans to be coherent. The European Commission states that the Belgian report is 'difficult to analyse' because it simply adds up the plans of the different entities without coherence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u6	"Mrs. Minister, submitting an adequate National Energy and Climate Plan for 2021-2030 has clearly had a lot of groundwork. Nevertheless, the final product is not to write about home. Although the overall emission reduction objective of the plan is now in line with the expectations of the European Commission, that body is quite rightly critical of the implementation of the plan. After all, it leaves a lot to be desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u7	Mr President, thank you. I will give a comprehensive answer to the questions asked. Let me start by telling you that I am still analysing the European Commission's evaluation in detail, in consultation with my administration and my fellow Minister Van der Straeten, who is responsible for Energy. I note that the European Commission is very critical of the Belgian PNEC. It reveals that our plan is not coherent, nor integrated, but is limited to the sum of partial plans developed independently, given the lack of coherence, effectiveness or synergy between the measures. For investors, there is no clear perspective based on a common vision. I want to add: hence the importance of the vision that I developed earlier on transversality and coherence between the different levels of power. With regard to greenhouse gas emissions, there will be a small deficit compared to the target if all planned measures under the NEFP achieve their objective. In addition, the Commission notes that insufficient evidence is provided as to how the measures described in the plan will contribute effectively to the reductions envisaged. Excuse me, I'm distracted by the volume of the translation... The Belgian contribution to the European renewable energy objective is still lower by 17.3% in the final plan than in the draft plan, despite the European Commission's recommendations, which requested a contribution of 25%. The Belgian objective is therefore called unambitious by the Commission. The Commission also considers that the Belgian contribution to the EU objective is too low in terms of energy efficiency. The Commission recommends Belgium to take additional measures and to develop a clear framework for this in terms of the expected results, but also in terms of the required funding. In the Commission's view, the NEFP also lacks quantitative targets for energy security and specific policy objectives and measures for internal market functioning. For research and development, national aggregated data are lacking. Nor does the NEFP contain a list of subsidies for fossil fuels, no quantitative target to reduce energy poverty or quantitative data on job creation. In other words, there is much room for improvement and reinforcement of the existing plan. Moreover, the challenge will only be greater. The plan will probably also need to be revised in the light of the increase in climate ambition for 2030, which is part of the European Council's December objectives. As you know, both the Federal Government and the Walloon Region and the Brussels Capital Region strongly support the European Commission's proposal to increase the greenhouse gas reduction target to at least 55%. I am confident that the minds will mature in the Flemish government as well, and that in December Belgium will be able to stand behind this objective. This will enable us to focus on adapting European climate and energy legislation, namely the ETS directive and the effort sharing regulation. The resulting new national objectives should form the basis for a revised version of the NCP. As regards its timing, EU legislation requires Member States to submit their draft revised NEFPs by July 2023, in order to submit their final revised plans one year later. Taking into account the above elements, we cannot, of course, wait for that deadline to strengthen the plan. In the coalition agreement, the government has already committed itself to adjusting its own contribution through an action plan, which I intend to work on in 2021. It is therefore necessary to adapt the NEKP, but I would also like to make an immediate commitment to its implementation. That too is one of the specific recommendations of the European Commission. Many of the measures contained in the existing plan require further implementation and further elaboration. I also take this challenge to heart and will engage in dialogue with my colleagues from the federal government and the regional governments in the coming weeks and months. In line with the Commission's recommendations and the government agreement, the federal team has already agreed that we will focus on the production and use of renewable energy, on the energy clean-up of public buildings and the encouragement to renovate buildings in general, and on measures to promote sustainable mobility, such as railways and zero-emission corporate vehicles. Rather than fearing an infringement procedure because the Belgian NEKP does not meet today, we must seize the opportunity that improving climate and energy policy can provide for post-COVID recovery, as a catalyst for public and private investment that is essential for achieving the Green Deal's goal of turning from a linear to a circular economy and for green transition in general. What is more, if Belgium does not want to miss out on European resources for recovery, we will have to devote at least 37% of the resources allocated to climate policy under the national recovery plan and we will have to respect the do no harm principle for other investments. The NEKP is one of the basic documents for the European Commission. The fact that the NEKP in its present form is not sufficiently ambitious does not prevent us from submitting an ambitious Belgian recovery plan that really sets our country on the right path towards a climate-neutral future. Nevertheless, it is of the utmost importance that the NEKP be operationalised as soon as possible. One of the key elements of a successful recovery policy and the climate transition is an oiled and thorough coordination between the federal government and the federated entities, which ensures mutual reinforcement of policies at different levels. The evaluation of the Belgian PNEC by the European Commission is already on the agenda of the next meeting of the National Climate Commission and the energy consultation between the Federal State and the Regions. This meeting is scheduled for 3 December. As part of the preparations for this meeting, the federal and regional energy and climate administrations are undertaking a joint analysis of the Commission's report and are working on proposals for further action. I do not wish to anticipate what these proposals will contain, but I can already point out to you that I intend to develop a transparent follow-up path involving all stakeholders and to engage in a dialogue with your Assembly. This is the only way to ensure that the policy is carried out on a sufficiently broad basis. That confirms the statement I made this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u8	Madam Minister, I am, of course, looking forward to your action plan for 2021. You have outlined the procedure and timetable for 2023 and June 2024. You have, of course, also demonstrated the link with the recovery plan, which is the 37%. I'm curious to hear about the consultation with your administration and the Regions. Working groups within that ENOVER are about the NEKP. If an agreement comes out of it, it must also be politically knocked off. That is planned for early December. I shall return to my next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u9	Minister, the NECP is the central instrument, the reference document for our climate policy. The raising of the European target for 2030 will require a review of the PNEC's ambitions upwards. I welcome your willingness to update this plan quickly. The European Commission proposes to explore mechanisms for cooperation between Member States and European funding to improve the use of renewable energy, including sustainable mobility, the renovation of public buildings and the development of clean energy by disinvesting in fossil fuels. Finally, given the differences in objectives between regions, it is essential to have an integrated vision and plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u10	Thank you for your rather comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. So there are opportunities. In recent years, we have not performed well in the field of our NEKP. Europe says so. We will continue to follow it in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u11	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. I do not have any additional comments at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u12	Everything will again amount to concrete measures. With that, the whole story stands or falls. The debate will have to go a long way on this. I will read your answer again, but it comes down to that every time. The federal government will have to take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u13	Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u14	The Confederation of Construction is not only angry with De Planckaerts, but they also sent a message a while ago following the state of the union of European Commission President von der Leyen. She made it clear that investing in renovation and making homes more energy efficient is the way to get out of the crisis. Other countries had already submitted plans at that time. I wonder what the state of affairs is for our country. Maybe I missed something. Where are we on that? It would be a great pity to miss out on Europe's support for EUR 5 billion, according to the Confederation for Construction. How's that going? Is there anything else that needs to be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u15	We share the view of the Confederation Build that energy renovations of buildings are crucial and that we should also use the European funds for relance for this purpose. Belgium has been delayed with its relance plan due to the long government formation, but in the meantime the new federal government has dramatically accelerated the work. For all information, I refer to my colleague, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine, who is drawing up the recovery and investment plan within the government. It goes without saying that the energy renovations of public buildings will take place at federal level. Whether and how much the country will invest in the energy renovation of housing depends, of course, on the contribution of the other governments that are primarily competent for this. However, as Minister for Climate Policy, I will ask my colleagues to make a strong commitment, should they not yet intend to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u16	I thank the Minister for her answer. Of course, I share the view that this part is important in the relance. So I do hope that you will convince your colleagues to submit the investment plans as soon as possible in order not to miss out on European aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u17	Madam Minister, once again I have a question concerning the European CO2 reduction targets. It is specifically intended for you and Mr Verduyckt to focus a little on the issues and to show how difficult your mission is. On 7 October 2020, the European Parliament adopted the report and negotiating mandate on the European Climate Law. A majority in the European Parliament calls on the European Commission to reduce emissions by 60% by 2030. It is likely that this will not happen; the standard will probably be fixed at 55% in December in the European Council. The same majority calls for the European Commission, through the ordinary decision-making procedure, to draw up a European roadmap by 31 May 2023 to be carbon-neutral by 2050. That is why we are now looking forward with interest to the December European Council, after which negotiations with individual Member States can begin. Now there is also something like Flanders, Flanders will not meet the climate targets for greenhouse emissions 2013-2020 by the end of this year. The progress report under the Flemish Mitigation Plan 2013-2030 shows that Flemish emissions for the non-ETS sectors only decreased by 3% between 2005 and 2018, while the target was - 15.7 % in 2020. It is also noted that emissions in the sector with the largest share of emissions, transport, have stagnated in Flanders over the past 15 years. In other sectors such as agriculture and industry, it is also a major challenge to reduce emissions in a context of economic growth, which we hope will be again soon. Belgium will have to take a position on the possible more stringent objectives, so intra-Belgian consultations will have to take place quickly. Have you consulted with Flemish minister Zuhal Demir? Is your first meeting actually scheduled for November 18th, at the end of next week? How do you respond to the reality of the particularly serious problem of Flemish emissions in the non-ETS sectors and to Minister Demir's proposals on leverage for reducing emissions through federal powers? That is also my colleague, Mr Wollants,'s stick horse. What results do the other regions in our country achieve for the period 2013-2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u18	On 7 October 2020, a hearing was held in the interparliamentary climate committee with Mr Peter Wittoeck, Head of the Department of Climate Change of the FPS Public Health. This hearing showed that the negotiations on the allocation of the Belgian climate objectives 2021-2030 between the regions of the region had not yet started, while this allocation should be completed by 1 January 2021. I do not need to remind you that the various governments have negotiated this for nearly 6 years in the negotiations on the sharing of climate effort for the period 2013-2020. This hearing showed that the National Climate Commission (NKC), responsible for these negotiations, had only met twice this year. Mr Wittoeck pointed out that this was not due to the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u19	In December 2019, the European Commission proposed its Green Deal. The key idea here is that the EU should become climate neutral by 2050. This objective of climate neutrality is currently enshrined in a Climate Law. The Commission presented its proposal for a climate law on 4 March. On 7 October, the European Parliament voted in favour of this climate law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u20	Last year, the European Council adopted the objective of a climate-neutral EU by 2050. The federal government fully supports that objective and the ambition of the Green Deal in general. Several Member States, as well as the European Parliament, also argue in the context of discussions on the European Climate Law that the climate neutrality objective would apply at both EU and Member State level. In any case, the federal government agreement expresses the ambition to make our country climate neutral by 2050. On 19 February this year, the Consultation Committee approved the Belgian long-term strategy for reducing Belgium's greenhouse gas emissions. It mentioned the common will of all the governments concerned to strive for carbon neutrality. In preparation of the national long-term strategy, the federal climate administration drew up a vision document. That report, Vision and strategic workflows for a decarbonised Belgium by 2050 "Input to the Belgian long-term strategy," presents a vision for the different sectors at national level, discusses options to reduce emissions and identifies priority workstreams to shape climate policy in the following years. These workstreams are the areas in which, in my view, we in Belgium should work closely together in the coming years and thus form a kind of work programme for the short and medium term in order to achieve the transition to climate neutrality by 2050. My administration is currently working hard on new scenarios for climate neutrality in Belgium by 2050, which can help form the basis for such cooperation. It is clear that the current targets by 2030 are not in line with the transition to climate neutrality by 2050, either at European or national level. The European Commission proposes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. Following an initial examination of that proposal in October, the European Council decided to decide in December to increase the European targets by 2030. The federal government, like the Walloon region and the Brussels-Capital Region, fully supports the European Commission's proposal. However, consultations with regional governments have not yet produced a united position. I hope that the Flemish Government too will soon mature and that we, as Belgium, will be able to support the minimum 35% targets in December. A recent literature study conducted by VITO, Ecores and Kenter on behalf of the National Climate Committee outlines the socio-economic impact of climate change in Belgium. This study shows, among other things, the high vulnerability of Flanders to sea level rises and floods. That is an additional argument to increase climate ambition. You have been able to read in the coalition agreement the objectives that the federal government has in mind in its own policy area. What concrete commitments the outcome of the European discussions will bring for Belgium will depend not only on whether the European Council decides to set the 2030 European target at least 55% and whether climate neutrality will also apply at national level, but also on the transposition of that objective into policies and choices made in that context, in particular on the architecture of European climate policy, the role of the different sectors and the distribution of efforts between those sectors between Member States. The Commission's concrete proposals for this will follow on the basis of the European Council's guidance in 2021, in particular in the context of the review of the different legislative frameworks. In addition, the government and the regions will have to consider which levers at the various levels we should use to implement the transition to climate neutrality in Belgium as well, and thereby achieve a necessary robust reduction of greenhouse gases in the medium term. It is clear that additional ambitious and forward-looking policies, complementary to strong measures at EU level, are needed in all sectors, in the non-ETS sectors, for which there are national targets, but also in the ETS sectors, for example in infrastructure and innovation, in order to deliver the transition to climate neutrality. We must, without delay, strengthen the national energy and climate plan, including the federal part, to which the European Commission invites us in its recent review; I am counting on the active involvement of colleagues in the government to do so. The establishment of the ETS Plan will also provide an opportunity to strengthen climate and energy policy, in particular through targeted investments in line with the NEFP. I also regret that emissions in the non-ETS sectors in Flanders have fallen very slightly since 2005, 0.2 percent on an annual basis, while in the other two regions it has fallen on average by 1.2 % to 1.4 % per year. That's 6 to 7 times faster than in Flanders. The reduction rates observed in neighbouring countries are also significantly higher than in Flanders. I am pleased that Minister Demir welcomes the green ambition of the federal level. I look forward to working with her to advance the entire region. Minister Demir rightly calls for strong federal measures, as the trend in the Flemish Region is a shared responsibility of both the Flemish and the federal government. Strategies at different policy levels should therefore complement and reinforce each other. I will therefore make full use of strong federal measures to achieve the transition in the Flemish region as well. Minister Demir himself refers to the VAT reduction for reconstruction after demolition, the thorough renovation of the building heritage in the hands of the federal government and the need for a performant, customer-friendly SNCB. All these measures were incorporated into the federal government agreement. Since the integration of extreme climate costs into prices through a carbon price is the basis of any effective and efficient climate policy, the fiscal reform envisaged by the federal government is also a very important lever to bring about the transition in Belgium. It is a priority issue in which the federal administration during the previous legislature has already taken an important step through the organisation of a national debate; we have already discussed it during the previous debate. As far as the National Climate Commission is concerned, I have been in action since day one. I regret that this year the NKC has only been called together by the previous competent federal minister. In 2020, it is the federal government that is chairing the NKC. In the meantime, on my initiative, the federal government has already re-established its delegation to the NKC. We are now working on the agenda for a meeting later this month. The distribution of the 2030 targets is not easy, as not all of them are yet known. Nevertheless, we plan to negotiate the so-called effort sharing faster than last time. This is also in the interest of all entities, because the revenues from emission allowances, which can be financed by climate policy and which are important to boost families and businesses, depend on a positive outcome in the negotiations on efficiency sharing. We will be transparent about all data and outcomes relevant to stakeholders, so that everyone can monitor the progress of climate policy and appreciate the ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u21	Thank you for your reply, Mrs Khattabi. I noticed a number of cases. Firstly, there is the fact that Belgium is already explicitly committed to a 55% reduction in the coalition agreement. I do not think that would be wise, since the European 55% target does not apply at Member State level. Nevertheless, Belgium has already announced to all European partners that this country is going for 55%. I also asked the Prime Minister whether this would not weaken our negotiating position. His answer was that we should not read it as literally as it is stated in the coalition agreement. Shouldn't you look at that in the government? What exactly is it about? Secondly, Belgium only controls the non-ETS sectors. In order to achieve the 55% reduction for ETS and non-ETS sectors together, a further reduction rate for the non-ETS sectors will therefore have to be envisaged. I can't hear you talking about that. What specific objectives are there? You are already committed to objectives without knowing whether they are realistic. With regard to climate policy, we may well be ambitious, but we must remain a little realistic. Thirdly, as far as Flanders is concerned, I think Flanders is already making a great deal of effort. For example, Flanders does not commit itself to objectives that we already know in advance that they are not feasible, but it does take action. For example, Minister Demir recently increased the premium for energy renovation. Recently 30 million euros were invested in innovative recycling techniques, making Flanders the world leader in circular economy. In Flanders, we like to stick to actions and not just words. Words are useless if they are not matched by deeds. So we do what we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u22	Mrs Khattabi, you will find that it will not be easy. Mrs Demir has already bounced the ball back to the federal camp for initiatives. You have listed them; I will not repeat them. It is clear to the Flemish Government that there is no assessment at state level in relation to the min-55 % target. There is a global assessment, as Mr Timmermans explained here. In Flanders, therefore, people remain very cautious. That was also Mrs Van Bossuyt's message. In any case, we will follow the dossier very closely. You're facing a titanic assignment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I cannot stress enough how important it is for Belgium to get out in time for the allocation of the 2030 climate targets. In this way, we can begin to work on the realisation of these objectives. That is why, and for other reasons, it is important that the National Climate Commission does its job well. We are counting on you to ensure this and to ensure greater transparency through adequate reporting of the NKC in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u24	Mr President, Minister, on 15 October the RMI presented its new Climate Report. It brings together the most recent results of Belgian climatic observations and Belgian climate research. The RMI aims to inform scientists, policy makers and the general public about the scientific knowledge about the perceived and future climate in Belgium. As a federal scientific institution, the RMI plays a leading role in climate research, observations and regional climate modelling. In Belgium, there appears to be a high demand from researchers and also from the public and policy makers for detailed, quantitative, reliable and consistent climate information and services, in particular on the expected climate change and its consequences. According to the RMI, in order to meet these needs, it is necessary to finance a structural framework for climate research and services at Belgian level. Cooperation with the various regions and communities, both at policy and research level, should be established. In this way, the RMI, as a leading institution in terms of climate, could ensure continuous scientific expertise and respond to key climate information needs. More specifically, the report calls for the establishment and financing of a climate centre. What is your response to the RMI's plea for the establishment and financing of such a climate centre? Have you had any contact with Mr Dermagne in charge of science policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Ravyts, for this question. I would like to begin with a brief historical background to the situation. On 26 November 2015, the Chamber of Representatives adopted a resolution asking the government to set up a climate excellence centre. The implementation of that application was considered through the National Adaptation Plan (NAP). Measure 2 of the NAP provided for the development of a roadmap of a Belgian climate excellence centre from 2017. The mid-term review of the NAP of March 2019 indicated that the roadmap has not been completed and that the action is not included in the general policy paper of the State Secretary for Science Policy. Moreover, the NKC never put this measure on the discussion table. The establishment of the Centre was considered financially impossible in the previous period on the basis of the estimate of potential costs: at least EUR 0.5 to 0.75 million per year, only for initial development and coordination costs. The final evaluation of the NAP, scheduled for the end of this year, is expected to reflect the above. I fully understand the question of the RMI, and I am prepared to support and relaunch this initiative together with my colleague Thomas Dermine, who is responsible for Science Policy. If the NKC does not intend to include this point in the future National Adaptation Plan, then I commit to defend it within the federal Adaptation Plan. What the centre will look like is still to be examined, but its alignment with the round tables on the objectification of the climate objectives and their evaluation makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u26	Mr President, I may have missed it just now when I was talking about Thomas Dermine. I may have used another name, I don't remember. It's a little late in the day. I understand that in the past five to six years there has not been enough budget for it. They didn't see it. The action was not included or not sufficiently in the Federal Adaptation Plan. It never came to the discussion table within the NKC. But you will now do your best to put it on the table, Madam Secretary. I think it would indeed be appropriate for a green government if such a centre of excellence could see the light of day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u27	Minister, environmentalists have been following this issue for many years: neonicotinoids. We heard on 15 September that the beet sector will again request derogations for the use of neonicotinoid products, whereas they are banned at European level. On 21 April 2020, in committee, Mr Ducrame had confirmed that in 2020 the sector had again benefited from a derogation from it, but had insisted that it would be the last. Article 53 of the European Regulation on Pesticide Authorisations (1107/2009/EC) provides that a derogation may be provided in "special circumstances" and in case of "danger which cannot be controlled by other reasonable means". My questions are as follows: What is the sector's approach to demand? Are you considering or your government refusing this exemption? If not, how do you think you justify particular circumstances and lack of other reasonable means?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u28	Minister, allow me to congratulate you on your entry into the matter as a minister, since we have not seen each other publicly since then. Neonicotinoids are potent insecticides used preventively by seed coating. In 2018, the European Union banned three of these types of insecticides in field cultivation. Belgium has derogated from this prohibition in 2019 and 2020 in order to fight against aphids that transmit yellow beet. There is a consensus that this product has significant adverse effects on nature, biodiversity, the problem of bees being just one example among others. A study of the LUCL in this respect has highlighted the harmfulness of these products because they have a very important remanence which means that residues are still found in crops following those of treated beets. However, while it is true that only 20% of farmers have used these coated seeds this year as the constraints associated with this derogation are high, it is our responsibility from a well-informed source that many farmers are dissatisfied with the results of the current alternative methods, in particular because to replace neonicotinoids associated with seed and not requiring any spraying, it has taken three to five aerial sprays with conventional insecticides, which is toxic to farmers but also to residents and is also not biodiversity neutral. I know that this matter is also within the competence of your colleague Mr Clarinval, Minister of Agriculture. However, at this stage in the case, Madam Minister, can you let me know what your point of view is on this matter? Do you intend to respond favourably to the request from several associations that no derogation be granted to three neonicotinoids? Will there be a consultation with the Federal Minister for Agriculture? Is there a European timetable in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u29	With regard to assessments and marketing authorisations for pesticides in Belgium, I would like to refer you to Minister Clarinval, who is responsible for agriculture. However, I would point out that there is a memorandum of understanding between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health that provides that the Minister of Agriculture will inform policy choices and/or legislative initiatives when he or she covers matters directly related to public health, such as food safety standards, pesticides, zoonoses or antimicrobial resistance, within a time frame that allows for consultation between the two ministers, if any. The government agreement states that the government will base most of its action on the'science-based' method, integrating the precautionary principle. It explicitly provides for a drastic reduction in the use of pesticides. Pesticides include, on the one hand, biocides, for which I am competent with the Minister of Health and, on the other hand, plant protection products, which fall within the competence of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health. Therefore, in the coming weeks, I intend to coordinate with my two colleagues mentioned above in order to further analyse the content of the government agreement and to define the actions to be taken to achieve this objective. In its 2016 opinion on neonicotinoids, the Supreme Council of Health indicated that the results of recent studies on effects on human health and ecosystems were important warning signs and stressed the urgency of a complementary study on the toxicity of these compounds, human exposure to them and their effects on ecosystem services. I intend to refer the matter to the Supreme Council of Health to update its 2016 opinion on these substances. Its recommendations could feed into discussions on the national action plan on endocrine disruptors, which was currently being developed in consultation with the relevant departments. As far as the European calendar is concerned, I refer you to the Commission's website. I read that the approvals of Clothianidin and Thiamethoxam expired on 31 January 2019 and 30 April 2019 respectively. The deadline for the submission of the Imidacloprid renewal file is 31 January 2020, and its expiry date is 31 July 2022. I quickly add that I have contacted my colleague Clarinval in order to know his intentions in this area. The Minister and I are not bound by an agreement such as that between the Ministers of Health and Agriculture. For my part, I will see if it is possible to envisage such an agreement, since the environmental issue is indeed not spared in this matter. In conclusion, I have not yet received the minister's answer as to his position on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. Clearly, I asked Minister Clarinval the same question. I guess I'll get an answer from him. It has been so many years since this issue was defended by the environmental sector, but also by the health sector, that it is difficult to understand, even today, that there is no other way out. Of course, alternative research does not always depend on the federal government, since the Regions are directly involved. Moreover, our regional counterparts - both north and south - are moving forward, but probably not fast enough. The very interesting debates in which we have participated on the collapse of ecosystems and on the climate crisis and the relationship between environment and health require very ambitious responses in a short time. We will come back to that, hoping that the administration and Minister Clarinval will explain to us in full transparency why derogations may be needed. We therefore hope that this will no longer be the case. I thank you, in any case, for taking care of this as much as possible at your level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u31	Mr President, I would simply like to thank the Minister for her full answer. I will also encourage him to work with his colleagues in agriculture and health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u32	Mr. Chairman, at the time of the change of government, we had many outstanding issues. They're reappearing today. This will not always be the case, rest assured. "In 2013, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) published a guidance document defining the risk assessment of pesticides on bees. The paper had been the subject of a scientific debate involving stakeholders. However, it has still not been recognised by the Member States of the European Union. It seems that for several months the EFSA has been trying to unblock the situation by working on a revision of this guidance document. According to information obtained by the NGOs PAN Europe and Nature and Progress Belgium, the EFSA would propose four ways to define the natural variability of the size of a bee colony. One of them, option °2, uses a mathematical model – the Beehave model – co-produced by Syngenta. This mathematical model from the pesticide industry has never been scientifically validated and there is no indication that it will actually protect bees. Among the criticisms that can be made of this model is the fact that it uses mortality data in pesticide environments. At the very least, it is surprising to consider that such data can be used to define 'normal' variations in the size of bee colonies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u33	Ms. de Laveleye, as with the previous response, I refer you, with respect to assessments and authorizations, to Minister Clarinval. I would remind you that there is a memorandum of understanding between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture. However, I would like to add that I am very careful about the work, given the impact on the environment and the obvious links with the Federal Bees Plan. I will ensure that my services are invited to contribute actively to the establishment of the Belgian position on these issues within the framework of the CPCIE Group on this subject, the Pesticides/Bees Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. In addressing these highly central issues in terms of biodiversity, environment and health, I knew the difficulty of having to juggle with three ministers in charge. I give you all our energy and good will to find solutions with your colleagues. We are not going to resume this morning's debate, but bees are at the centre of our biodiversity and our ability to feed. If solutions are not found quickly, we are facing disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u35	Madam Minister, my colleague Barbara Creemers and I have already had the opportunity to question Mrs Marghem on several occasions about the situation in which the four environmental federations of IEW, BBL, BRAL and IEB are in. As you know, in accordance with the new Royal Decree of May 2019, the four federations have introduced a five-year recognition procedure with a view to filing, after the recognition, an annual funding application for 2020. While the administrative decision on their recognition should have been given no later than 16 May, no reply was given to them, under the argument of routine cases. On 1 September 2020, the federations should have submitted their application for funding for 2020 on the basis of their new recognition. This date is, therefore, largely exceeded. After having already been deprived of subsidies in 2019, these cupolas are in the process of not receiving their subsidies in 2020. Minister, have you been able to analyze the request for recognition of the cupolas? Could a solution be found for 2019 funding? Could a solution be found for 2020 funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u36	Madame de Laveleye, thank you for this question, which allows me to highlight the importance of environmental cupolas for federal environmental policy. For the 2020 procedure, I signed the ministerial decree approving the cupolas from 13 October: IEW, BBL, BRAL and IEB are recognised cupolas for the years 2020 to 2024. The administration provided me with an analysis of the common demand for subsidies, which was returned by the four federations before 1 September. I gave my consent to the amounts proposed as early as 23 October. The federations will therefore receive the subsidy requested for the year 2020. However, the 2019 procedure has not been closed by the previous minister and is therefore still open. Different solutions are being analysed to compensate for the work done by the cupolas in 2019, but they must be legally validated and can only be implemented at the earliest in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u37	Minister, I would just like to say thank you. It's really a relief. It was a bit the quadrature of the circle and it was incomprehensible to leave the federations, who do the job every day to document the work of the government in particular, in such an impasse. I am extremely pleased to hear that solutions have been found and are even in progress for 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u38	On Friday, September 18, EFSA provided expertise on fluoroalkylic compounds. These synthetic substances with specific physico-chemical properties (waterproofing, electrical insulation, etc.) used for decades by a wide variety of industrial sectors and recognized as endocrine disruptors. By means of industrial discharges, landfill runoff, soil pollution and groundwater, these substances have gradually impregnated our environment. They store and persist in the food chain to our plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, the so-called PFAS chemicals represent an environmental and health hazard that we must fully consider. In recent years, significant cases of pollution to PFAS have been observed in countries bordering Belgium, namely the Netherlands and France. According to the researchers, for several years, two PFAS, C8 and GenX, have been found in drinking water via contamination of the local watercourse, nature and air of the Dordrecht region, in Holland, near a Teflon plant. To say the least, the number of cancers that have appeared in the population and their precocity would be of concern. A survey conducted by the Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail française (ANSES) in 2016 revealed that several areas had been significantly contaminated with PFAS. According to the French newspaper Libération, one of these areas is located near the city of Lyon where two sites of companies belonging to the chemical industry release PFAS in large quantities in the environment and, more particularly, in the Rhône. In August, the press revealed that significant pollution of PFAS had been detected in Belgium, at the Opel site in the port of Antwerp, caused by an underground foam tank. In this regard, the toxicologist Jean Tytgat acknowledged that "after a long exposure from a few months to several years", this pollution " presents significant risks to people and the environment" and promotes, in particular, "a risk of cancer". Madam Minister, the case of the Opel site shows us that the areas with high pollution at the PFAS do not only concern the countries bordering Belgium. Have any other cases of environmental contamination of PFAS been identified or suspected in Belgium? The Dutch and French cases mention pollution of waterways adjacent to contamination sites. Could the presence of PFAS from the Opel site be found in the Scheldt? In addition, have significant concentrations of PFAS been observed in other rivers in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u40	Mrs de Laveleye, you will allow me to have transformed the first question concerning the current exposure rates of the Belgian population into a written question. Belgian data from 2004 can be found on the website of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). EFSA's new scientific recommendations must be reviewed for public consultation (January 2021) in order to redefine acceptable thresholds. The new thresholds will reveal a problematic and unfortunately historical exposure for small children. Since these products have already been widely distributed in the environment for a long time, we will have to take steps to prevent them from continuing to accumulate and pass through the food chain, especially fish, eggs and fruit. Recall that the half-life of these products is several years and they will not disappear from the environment quickly. It will be important to ban at European level the most recent substances in the most massive uses, if not all these substances, as a precautionary measure. My administration is following the subject very closely and I will give it my full attention as well. As for measures to prevent the placing on the market of contaminated food – the main route of exposure with water – I intend to coordinate with my colleague in charge of Agriculture and AFSCA to further analyse the content of the government agreement and define the actions to be taken to achieve this objective. Belgium has actively contributed to the work of EFSA. For example, it is up to us to analyze the substance PFHPA. We also provided the Belgian exposure data that allowed the European assessment. Concertation on these matters is ongoing in European decision-making bodies in accordance with the rules on chemicals. Mr Senesael, concerning concentration data in the environment – as with biomonitoring, for example – I would like to point out that this is a regional competence for which my colleagues in the Regions will be able to provide you with more information on the campaigns carried out so far, for example the studies on PFAS in the environment published by the Walloon and Brussels Regions or the OVAM in Flanders. These data do indeed show the presence of these substances in our citizens and in the environment and the existence of polluted sites. Remediation of existing pollution has been shown to be difficult. Communication between the federal government and the federated entities and European research projects is carried out within the framework of the National Environment and Health Action Plan (NEHAP) as well as through the Belgian REACH Committee and the Coordination Committee for International Environmental Policy (CCPIE). In order to prevent this situation from getting worse, it is necessary to take measures as upstream as possible and at European level. Our country is actively participating in these European developments. Indeed, the Commission has responded positively to the Belgian demand via the 2019 CIMES to establish a European action plan limiting the use of PFAS only to essential uses. This plan is now being discussed as part of the sustainable chemicals strategy that is part of the Green Deal. Furthermore, several restrictions on the placing on the market of uses are being prepared through the REACH regulation with the participation of our experts. Fire-fighting foams are one of the main causes of contamination in all parts of the world. The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is in the process of developing a restriction, with the support of federal environmental experts and with the information also provided by the Regions. This restriction will be proposed for review by ECHA committees at the end of 2021. Ongoing collaboration between the federal and the Regions in this area is essential. Indeed, the efforts of the Regions to monitor these substances serve the measures proposed at European and international level, demonstrating the need for and ensuring that they are effectively monitored with a view to reducing the levels observed in the environment. Finally, mention should also be made of the recent adoption in Flanders of a plan on PFAS with regard to its competences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u41	Minister, I take note of your very comprehensive answer. I'm going to have to go back there to find out the different aspects of it. In any case, we see that the issue is moving forward – perhaps too late in view of the public health risks we have been facing for so many years. I imagine we will be able to continue the examination with you in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u42	Mr President, I have not heard many of the Minister's answers to my questions and I am somewhat sorry. Given the work I have already done on this subject, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the need to establish a regulation or, in any case, a regulation that will make it mandatory – given the tragedies that have already been experienced – to mention adequate information on the labelling of products containing PFAS. In addition, consideration should be given to carrying out advanced toxicological tests with companies involved in the manufacture of PFAS and products containing PFAS. Finally, I would also point out to the Minister that it might be useful, if not necessary, to start working together between the relevant public bodies and the companies involved in the manufacture of PFAS and products containing PFAS with a view to creating public registers of products containing these materials. I think I will come back a little later, with proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u43	Mr Senesael, I started by saying that concentration data is a regional competence. You will have the exact answers to your questions about these concentration data by asking the question at the regional level. But I understand your disappointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u44	Mr Senesael, the minister understands your disappointment. Does that help you a little?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u45	Mr President, you cannot know how this puts me in the heart!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u46	I don't see Mr Moyaers. He had a question about the ban on the use of rubber granulate in sports fields.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u47	I just texted him, but I didn't get an answer. I propose that the question be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Moyaers converted 55010065C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u49	Minister, it is now recognized that digital technologies have a negative impact on the environment. This impact is linked, on the one hand, to pollution caused by the manufacture and distribution of digital information processing and communication technology products and, on the other hand, to pollution caused by their operation and that of the Internet network. According to a 2017 study, the first form of pollution mentioned represents almost 40% of the carbon footprint of digital technology. In France, it was pointed out that the digital production and distribution phase accounted for 70% of the carbon footprint of digital technology across the country. As regards the second form of pollution, i.e. that related to the use of digital technology and the operation of the Internet, it is the cause of approximately 55% of digital greenhouse gas emissions. According to the Agence de la transition écologique française, digital technology is now responsible for about 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, forecasts of the increase in the use of information technology by the world's population point to a sharp increase in the carbon footprint in decades or even years to come. A study by Green IT, a French firm specializing in the assessment of the environmental aspects of digital technology, suggested that the sector's greenhouse gas emissions could be doubled in 2025, while its environmental impacts could be tripled. Minister, what is your view on this problem, as it also concerns our country? Do we have the means to accurately assess the environmental footprint of digital technology in Belgium and its various aspects (related in particular to the use and operation of the Internet network, data centres, etc.)? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u50	There was an attached question directed to Secretary of State Michel. It came from Mr D'Amico, whom I do not see among us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u51	Mr President, the question had been addressed to my colleague Michel, but he has redirected it to me. I will therefore answer both questions. The reports and figures you mentioned show that the environmental impact of digital technologies on climate, natural resources and the environment is real. This impact is scientifically documented, significant and constantly growing. It manifests itself throughout the life cycle of information technologies: production, distribution, use and end-of-life processing. Environmental impacts are not limited to climate impact The extraction of raw materials used for the production of digital equipment, their transport and the energy consumption associated with their use generate other environmental pollution than greenhouse gas emissions. As Minister of Climate and Environment, I must point out that the majority of us are too likely to underestimate in the public debate the ecological impact of digital technologies. One phenomenon in particular must attract our attention to new technologies: the rebound effect. This well-known effect of economists means that efficiency gains can result in a clear reduction in the cost of using a technology. The use of these technologies increases to such an extent that efficiency gains can be offset by increased use of these technologies. This is true of the increase in heating temperature in well-insulated houses or of the increase in the use of cars that consume little fuel. At this stage, we have only a partial view of the overall impact and rebound effect of ICT products in Belgium, both in terms of their production, distribution and use. I am considering asking the federal government of the environment to produce an assessment of the overall impact of these products. Since the digital market is a global market with supply chains spread across different countries, action levers for Belgium in terms of impact reduction during the production phase exist, but the most important levers are mainly at European and international level. As regards the use phase, the climate impact is mainly related to energy consumption. As regards the end-of-life treatment phase, Belgium and in particular the Regions normally have the necessary levers with the producer's extended liability body, Recupel. Different strategies address this issue, including, in order of importance: more rational use; digital sobriety; eco-design of information technologies to promote their life, reuse and recycling; improved equipment efficiency and management of digital systems; increased use of renewable electricity; and the use of data center heat. My administration is already working on this issue through the Eco-Design Regulation, which reduces the energy impact of products. Thus, there are Eco-Design requirements for servers and data storage products. The European Commission also wants to extend the concept of eco-design to include the material impacts of production. Belgium will also be part of the EU digitalisation for the benefit of the environment initiative and, in this context, supports the call for the Commission and stakeholders in the sector to develop guidelines for the various sectors concerned in order to achieve sustainable use of digital solutions while improving their efficiency and avoiding rebound effects. As far as the deployment of 5G is concerned, my administration is not yet aware of any studies of its energy and material impact. Indeed, the Green Deal identifies digitisation as a key catalyst, but also announces that sustainability must be at the heart of the sector and that measures to improve energy efficiency and the sector's circulatory performance will be envisaged. The government will ensure that the necessary conditions are in place quickly for all stakeholders to join in the introduction of 5G and the deployment of fibre optics. In this regard, account will be taken of scientific information, including aspects related to health, safety and the impact on energy consumption of the competences of federated entities. Mr Senesael, I hope I have answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u52	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. I am pleased to see that you are taking this problem at arm-to-body level, because its impact is constantly growing, as you pointed out. I also share your analysis when you say that there is not only the climate impact, on which my question focused, but also the other environmental pollution caused by these digital technologies. We must indeed take into account the assessment of the overall impact of these products. In this respect, we must not confine ourselves to our regions or to our federal state, but to consider the situation at European and international level. I fully support the strategies that you have set out and that need to be implemented, as this is a matter of particular interest to me and which I will be happy to follow with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u53	Minister, according to a survey conducted by Public Eye and Greenpeace UK organisations, Belgium would be one of the European countries exporting the most banned pesticides to Europe. This survey reveals that in 2018, a series of companies based in Belgium (including Kanesho, Bayer, Corteva and Arysta) would have exported 4987 tonnes of pesticides, mainly acetochlor and carbendazim, to about fifteen countries outside the European Union, such as Kenya, Chile and Ukraine. Acetochlor, a herbicide, has been identified as an endocrine disruptor and carcinogen, while carbendazim, a fungicide, has been associated with several health problems, including the development of congenital malformations. Both pesticides have also been characterized as substances harmful to the environment and ecosystems. While European legislation prohibits the use of such pesticides on European soil, it does not condemn their production and export to countries outside the European Union, in which their use is authorised. This poses a major risk to the health of the inhabitants of the importing countries, as well as that of our fellow citizens, since certain agricultural products containing residues of these pesticides grown in these countries are then exported to Belgium and consumed by its citizens. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can we have your feedback on this issue? The French Constitutional Council has chosen to prohibit the production, export and transport of agricultural products not authorised in Europe because of their effects on the environment and health. Are you considering initiatives to address this issue? Do we have the means to assess the quantity of products imported from countries using these hazardous pesticides and their danger to human health? Thank you in advance for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u54	Greenpeace UK and Public Eye published a survey on 10 September which shows that in 2018 EU member countries approved the export of 81,615 tonnes of pesticides containing substances banned by Europe. A total of 41 banned pesticides were allowed for export for this period, such as Paraqua, dichloropropene, cyanamide, and others. In this report we learn that Belgium is one of the main exporters, after the United Kingdom and with France, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany and Spain. On the importers side, there are 85 countries. Three quarters are developing or emerging countries. Among the largest are the United States, Brazil, Ukraine, Morocco, Mexico and South Africa, many of which export a significant proportion of their productions to Europe. These figures date from 2018, but those available for later years seem to be getting worse. In order to be able to export, companies must provide 'export notification'. The national (Ministry of the Environment) and European (European Chemicals Agency) regulatory authorities verify these documents and transmit them to the authorities of the countries of destination. What is your government planning to put in place to put an end to this type of practice? What position does Belgium hold at European level to prohibit this type of practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u55	Mr Senesael, Mrs de Laveleye, we are well aware of this problem, which, as you rightly point out, poses a risk to the health of the inhabitants and the environment of the importing countries, but also to that of our fellow citizens through the consumption of food imported from these countries when they are contaminated with substances banned from us. As part of the public consultation organised by the European Commission on its road map on the sustainable chemicals strategy, Belgium has raised this point – which you can find on the Commission's website – and its appeal has been heard. The Commission plans to ensure by 2023 that dangerous chemicals banned in the European Union are not produced for export. The French Constitutional Council Decision of 31 January 2020 provides for a ban on the production, storage and circulation in France of plant protection products containing active substances not approved by the European Union because of their effects on human and animal health and the environment. This provision therefore indirectly impedes France's export of such products. My services and I are closely following legislative and judicial developments around this legislation. However, we believe that such measures should be adopted at European level. The aim is to avoid the relocation of the problem to another Member State and to ensure fair competition within the European market. As such, we will ensure that we support any measures proposed by the Commission by 2023 to prohibit the production within the European Union of chemicals which are not authorised for use by us for health and/or environmental reasons. European legislation on international trade in dangerous chemicals and pesticides only requires us to report to the European Commission annually the exact quantities of products exported from the European Union for each country of destination. Within the Union, only dangerous substances and mixtures are labelled for their harmfulness. Treated products, such as foods, must not be and are not labelled according to the product with which they have been treated. It is quite possible that imported products have been treated with substances banned in the European Union. The assessment of the risks to human health posed by these active substances - and in particular residues which may be found in imported foods - is carried out by the European Food Safety Authority. In this case, it is particularly up to AFSCA to remove products that would be contaminated. Therefore, I invite you to consult with the Minister responsible for AFSCA. More generally, I intend to establish a coordination with the Minister of Agriculture to assess the extent to which the government agreement can help to improve the exchange of information between services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u56	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I take note of the fact that the European Commission has until 2023 to avoid this export production. Like you, I believe that a legislative arsenal for fair competition needs to be developed at European level rather than on a country-by-country basis. In your policy statement, you talked about the need, the importance of transversality. The subject that we are dealing with gives the latter all its raison d'être. I am thinking here of agriculture, AFSCA, but also the other sectors you mentioned. I thank you already for the debate that you are going to hold and which I hope will be productive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u57	Minister, I would like to reiterate the unacceptable nature of the situation. I do not understand that in 2020 there may still be companies that believe that it is acceptable to export prohibited products to us. This situation is incomprehensible! Having said that, I was very pleased to hear that things are moving forward at European level, as is the case in our neighbouring countries. Like you and Mr Senesael, I believe that coordination must take place at European level. But we know how this kind of debate takes place at European level. It will therefore be necessary for Belgium to set an example if we do not get satisfaction at this level. Your policy note, which we discussed this morning, refers to the principle of due diligence for companies, the principle of do no harm, value chains that must be fully controlled. This is entirely a matter of concern. In any event, I am reassured that you will follow this matter closely both in terms of our territory and at European level, because it is unacceptable to continue to think that we can export our "crasses" on the other side of the planet on the principle of 'far from the heart'.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, the report "Planète Vivante - La nature en Belgique", produced by the WWF in collaboration with Natagora, Natuurpunt, the Belgian Biodiversity Platform, the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences and about 20 researchers, public institutions and conservation organisations, reveals that a large number of species of wild pollinators are now threatened or extinct in Belgium. I'm not teaching you anything. In particular, the report points out that around 32.8% of wild bees are threatened in Belgium. This figure amounts to 53%, taking into account vulnerable or extinct bees. The bumblebee group, for its part, is presented as the most vulnerable. About 60% of them are almost threatened, 20% have disappeared from Belgium. Finally, researchers believe that populations of wild pollinators in Flanders and Wallonia (solitary bees, bumblebees, butterflies, syrphs and beetles) tend to homogenize: members of generalist species are increasing, while those of specialized species are decreasing. From a general point of view, a major use of pesticides, which destroy wildflowers, can be assimilated to one of the causes of the decline of wild pollinating insects. From a particular point of view, an American study conducted in 2018 by researchers in the Department of Biology at the University of Texas showed that glyphosate can increase the mortality of pollinators, especially domestic bees, by acting on their intestinal flora. Minister, have you read the report "Planète vivant - La nature en Belgique"? I have no doubt about that. Can we have your feedback on this, particularly on the question of the decline of wild pollinating insects in Belgium? Can we assess the impact of pesticides in general and glyphosate in particular on the presence of pollinating insects in our country? If so, what is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u59	Mr Senesael, the report "Planète vivant - La nature en Belgique", a large-scale and high-quality project, has just confirmed unfortunately known findings. It should also be noted that in its initiative, the WWF was able to count on the cooperation of public administrations. The Pollinators Working Group has for several years brought together experts from regional and federal administrations, civil society and academic experts on the issue of pollinator preservation. Thanks to this group creating, among other things, a science-policy interface, we are regularly informed about new data and new discoveries. We are therefore aware of the findings of the red list of bees in Belgium since its publication in December 2019. This list was presented by its authors at a meeting of this group. This working group has recently developed recommendations for measures that could form a national pollinator strategy organized around three pillars: 1. making agriculture favourable to pollinators; 2. make cities, infrastructures and areas favourable to pollinators; 3. improve knowledge and awareness of the condition of pollinators and the causes of their decline. This proposal for a national strategy will shortly be submitted to the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment. Finally, the studies point to the effects of glyphosate on pollinators but none is specific to Belgium. On the other hand, within the framework of the Federal Bees Plan, the government funded the BEESYN study, whose objective is to identify the impact of chemicals on bee mortality in Belgium, taking into account the interactions of these products with other potential causes of mortality. This study ends in December of this year and should provide us with recommendations for federal measures to reduce the exposure of domestic bees to dominant stressors, including pesticides for which the government wants to achieve an ambitious reduction plan. In the coming weeks, therefore, I intend to coordinate again with my colleague in charge of agriculture in order to analyse the government's agreement more closely and to define the actions to be taken to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u60	Mr President, I would like to express three thanks to the Minister: one for the quality of her answers, another for the strategy she has developed and which will soon be set up around the triptych agriculture, city, infrastructure and awareness of the cause of the decline, and a third for the ambitious fight she will undertake to carry out this pesticide reduction plan. She can count on the PS at her side.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u61	Mr President, Minister, my question is, of course, about the reformed Common Agricultural Policy. That's evolution, work in progress. There is indeed a problem with the state of nature in the EU. This is also referred to in the biodiversity chapter of Minister Khattabi's policy statement. The figures on biodiversity in Europe for the period 2013-2018 speak volumes about the endangered species of plants, birds and animals, despite the efforts that I believe are being made in terms of environmental conservation, including agriculture. We know the classic setup. Ecologists say that intensive farming represents a major threat to biodiversity. They argue for a different agricultural model. Of course, there is the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2030 and the Farm to Fork Strategy, two key elements of the Green Deal. That puts us in the middle of your powers, Mrs Khattabi. In recent weeks, the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy has been negotiated. In fact, the attitude of the ecologists is that the interim results of these negotiations, which have not yet been concluded, do not correspond to the objectives of the Green Deal. There's a lot of disappointment. In recent weeks, for example, Youth for Climate has also taken action. This is, of course, about the so-called eco-schemes and the percentage of European income support that would be reserved for farmers who want to work greener. On the one hand, this is a matter for the European Parliament and, on the other hand, for the EU's agriculture ministers, and, of course, this will still have to be discussed and clarified within the European 'trilogue' of the Commission, the Council and Parliament. It is a classic and somewhat flattened path: "No ecological paradise in an economic graveyard." Nevertheless, I would like to distance myself from the view that it would be an or-or story. I think it's more of an en-en-story. In Flanders, intensive agriculture and agro-industry are indeed carried out and the agricultural sector exports. So agriculture is also an economy. In between these cliffs you will have to struggle, Madam Secretary. How do you evaluate the mid-term reform of the European common agricultural policy in relation to the implementation of the Green Deal? Will you be involved in the context of agricultural policy by Member State within the framework of your powers? That is one of the innovations in the reform. Member States should draw up strategic plans, including eco-schemes, which are controlled and approved by the EU. I'm assuming this is about the regions. Agricultural policy has been regionalised at 90%. Do you have a say in the realization of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u62	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the common agricultural policy came after intense negotiations between the Member States in the European Council and a number of intense debates in the European Parliament. The result is therefore a compromise that is not ideal in all honesty, given the challenges and objectives of the Green Deal for which I am responsible at federal government level. However, as you point out, the agreement leaves a great deal of room for manoeuvre to the Member States through the drawing up of national policy plans, through which they can strengthen the environmental measures. In Belgium, these plans fall within the exclusive competence of the regions. As regards the European Farm to Fork Strategy, an ad hoc working group on the coordination of the federal and regional levels was set up by the PW ICLB to prepare the Belgian position. In this context, the federal and regional administrations concerned will be asked to exchange information on the dossiers under their respective competence to reach Belgian positions that take into account the multiple dimensions of this social debate. Finally, for a number of years, the Working Party on Pollinators has been bringing together experts from regional and federal administrations, civil society and academic experts for reflection on pollinators conservation. This working group has recently drawn up recommendations for measures that could shape a national policy for pollinators. This policy is based on the following three pillars: making agriculture pollinators friendly; setting up cities, infrastructure and space pollinators friendly; and improving knowledge about the state of pollinators and possible causes of their decline. The agricultural pillar contains recommendations that can be integrated into national policy plans. This proposal for a national policy will soon be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u63	Madam Minister, I am of course aware that this question may be a little difficult for you, given your powers. This subject only fits into a very limited part of your powers. Thank you, however, for the answer and the explanation. There is a limited approach to this strategic plan which is then made by the regions. It will be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment. We'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u64	Madam Secretary, in the Netherlands, RWE will repeat a test with a modified painting of windmill wings to combat bird mortality. An earlier study off the Norwegian coast indicated that if one of the three wheels of the windmills is painted, this would lead to a 70% reduction in bird mortality. That's a big deal, isn't it? The second offshore wind zone in the North Sea would just be planted at the current protected nature reserve Flemish Banks. And that can of course be an important track to reduce the impact. Are you aware of Norwegian experiment and what do you learn from it? Will you, as Minister responsible for the Environment, take initiatives to have such a pilot project also carried out for the wind farms off the Flemish coast in preparation for the roll-out of the second zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u65	Mr Wollants, you also asked my colleague Mr Van Quickenborne, who is responsible for the North Sea. My colleague will give an overall answer to your question. As far as my powers are concerned, I can tell you that it is very important, from the point of view of the Environment, in particular nature conservation and biodiversity, to pay careful attention to this issue. In close cooperation with the Minister for Energy and the Minister for the North Sea, I will closely monitor this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u66	Madam Minister, your answer indicates that there are a lot of ministers coming together in that North Sea and that it is not always clear who is competent. We have the North Sea Minister. We have you as Minister for the Environment and Climate. We have Mrs Van der Straeten as Minister for Energy. You must all work together in that small North Sea. It would therefore be a good thing for our committee to have a clear view of who is responsible for what, so that we can put our questions to the attention of the House. I had already mentioned this, but this question makes that clear once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u67	The question was put to Minister Khattabi and Minister Van Quickenborne. The practice will gradually make it clear who is responsible for what. You may add that it is not clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u68	Mr President, it is clear to me, but perhaps not for some of my colleagues. I shall simply continue with the practice of the past year and a half, in which Mrs Marghem always said in such questions: that is for the North Sea Minister, for your party colleague, Mr De Backer, who may have disappeared from politics. That was always the red thread. I will stick to that unless Mrs Khattabi has a different view. Then I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u69	Clarification will come. Mrs. Khattabi will take that to the government. There will be a division of responsibilities which this committee will take out of its concerns in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u70	Madam Minister, the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission launched a call for proposals on 13 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u71	Do you see this call as a first opportunity to set up climate tables or similar forms of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u72	Madam Minister, Executive Vice-President Vestager wants to launch a European debate on how EU competition policy can best support the Green Deal. The Competition DG has therefore published a call in mid-October 2020 to submit contributions and questions on cooperation between competition rules and sustainability policies. Competitive markets encourage companies to produce, invest and innovate efficiently and apply energy-efficient technologies at the lowest cost. This complements environmental and climate policies and regulations aimed at internalising environmental costs. Competition policy can thus contribute to the effectiveness of a green policy. The question is how the European competition rules can be applied in a way that better supports the Green Deal. The call will run until 20 November 2020 and will be followed by a conference in early 2021. Madam Minister, of course, stakeholders, namely industry, consumer organisations, environmental groups and competition experts, will have to make their contribution as a matter of priority, but they obviously need an efficient regulatory framework when it comes to state aid. Since you are also responsible for the Green Deal, have you responded to the call and contributed? Or do you still intend to do so through your administration? Have you had any contact with the energy sector in any way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u73	In fact, Mrs Vestager launched a call on 30 October to initiate a debate on how best to support the Green Deal. She herself presents three issues that could be discussed: state aid control, antitrust rules and merger control. The aim of the call for contributions is to gather ideas and proposals from all those involved, including competition experts, academia, industry, environmental groups and consumer organisations. I can only encourage those actors to take part in the consultation. Undoubtedly, some have already done so, whether or not through the European umbrella organisation. At this stage neither the government nor the federal administration has already established a position on the subject. Competition policy is a competence of my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment. The matter is raised through the Inter-Ministerial Economic Committee. The announcement by the European Commission on 22 September has already been discussed at the IEC at the end of September. In the course of the following weeks and months, Belgium will be able to adopt a coordinated position on this subject in appropriate times according to the appropriate channels. I refer to the coordination cell at DGE in the Foreign Affairs Office. However, in order to prepare the Belgian position, I think it would be useful to ask the Federal Council for Sustainable Development to take note of the results of the European survey, which will be used at the beginning of next year for a conference bringing together the various perspectives, and to advise the federal government to do so. Allow me also to draw attention to two points related to my policy statement, namely the test against the SDGs as a whole and the sustainability of value chains. In fact, I refer to the internalisation of external costs when competition policy is considered. That's important for a just transition. Finally, I would like to focus on two specific aspects of the questions. In any case, I will take the issue into account in the participation paths that I will set in motion in the coming weeks and months, from climate tables to the national conference on the fair transition, which will discuss the challenges of employment, social policy and the economy. As far as contact with specific sectors, such as the energy sector, is concerned, I believe that first and foremost the relevant ministers should be aware of this. As I have already pointed out, Belgian coordination will involve the colleagues concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u74	Madam Secretary, the last thing you say is very interesting. You'll take the file to the climate tables. I also put the question to Minister Van der Straeten, because the theme fits in with the social transition. You are not the only one to take a stand, but other stakeholders should also be involved, and it would be a good thing to warm them up to that. We have an interest in ensuring that all the good-looking heads of our country take part in this and make suggestions to Commissioner Vestager.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u75	Madam Minister, like Mr Verduyckt, I refer to the second part of your reply. It is very important that competition and the Green Deal are considered together. I note that you will include this in the participation pathways, such as the national conference. There is, of course, a link to your policy statement Sustainability of the value chain - internalisation of environmental costs. So it's a work in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u76	Mr de Caluwé has a question about the seizure of four undocumented parrots, whether or not they are resident?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u77	That is correct, Mr President, Madam Minister. I refer to an article in Het Laatste Nieuws of 5 November about the seizure of four parrots who have lived in Harry Malter's family park for more than twenty years. They were seized because they do not have the necessary identity papers and are therefore illegally staying in Heusden, near Destelbergen. The incident is a lot like a surreal, kafkaian story. It has nothing to do with non-respect for animal welfare rules. On the contrary, the animals that were seized are now going to a less comfortable accommodation environment, an asylum, while they have been kept and cared for in an animal park according to the rules of art for years. Animal welfare is no longer a federal competence. That is perhaps also why we are focusing on administrative rules at this level. On 17 June 2020 the auditors of the CITES cell of the FPS Public Health came out. In the case of two green-winged macaws, one blue-yellow macaw and one noble parrot, the transfer declaration with the identity of the previous owner appeared to be missing. Mrs Malter has stated that they are animals that have lived in the park for more than 20 years and were donated at the time by people from the neighbourhood who could not or did not want to take care of them anymore. The owner of the animal park has also made all kinds of documents available to the inspectors who show that she is indeed the owner of the animals. It's about veterinary statements, medical checks, photos and even DNA tests. It goes without saying that the stubborn attitude of the inspection causes the eyebrows to frown on the audience, especially in East Flanders. One rightly wonders why this very strict interpretation of the rules is necessary while the animal welfare of these animals is not compromised. In addition to the lack of proof of ownership, are there any other worrying factors concerning the accommodation and welfare of animals which would justify this very strict attitude on the part of the inspectors? Is the animal park also accused of commercial exploitation of the animals? If so, how does that prove? What does the inspection consider to be 'close ownership certificates', which the zoo should be able to submit in order to get the animals back? Where do the animals end up after impound? What are the plans for the animals after the seizure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u78	Mr de Caluwe, the CITES Convention is an international agreement on trade in animals and plants. The aim of the agreement is to map trade in protected species of animals and plants. This is done on the basis of a system of import and export licences. The activities of the Harry Malter family park are covered by CITES legislation, in particular the European Regulation on Exhibitions for Commercial Activities. The inspection of animal species has chosen to carry out additional checks on parks that should be well informed about CITES requirements within Belgium and within the European Union. On Wednesday 17 June 2020 an effective control was carried out at the Harry Malter family park in Heusden by the inspection service, in collaboration with the inspection services Animal Welfare. An inventory was made of all CITES specimens present. There were 48 CITES specimens present in the park. This is not just about parrots. The species found do concern the endangered species protected by the CITES Convention, otherwise my service would not act. These species have been protected since 1981. According to CITES legislation, these animals must be covered by a certificate of legal origin. The owner was asked several times to submit evidence, possibly to show that the park already owned these animals before the convention entered into force for these species. No evidence of this could be submitted. Following a guided tour of the park and the preparation of the CITES inventory, it was asked to submit all necessary documents, CITES certificates, transfer agreements or other evidence of legal origin and the registers of entry and departure. The owner stated that no registers were kept and could not therefore be submitted. The inspection service received several documents following the audit, several days later, but no written proof of legal origin could be submitted for four animals. This was especially true for a blue-yellow macaw, two green-winged macaws and a noble parrot. These are species listed in Appendix B2 to the CITES Convention. The following two findings were made. Firstly, commercialisation of specimens from Annex A or B without keeping the register of entry and departure. Secondly, commercialisation of specimens from Annex B without a certificate or proof of legal origin. The following infringements were identified. Firstly, an infringement of Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of wild animals and plant species by regulating trade therein. Secondly, an infringement of Article 8 of the Council Regulation of 9 December 1996 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein. Having regard to the fact that Harry Malter Animal Park has no written proof of the legal origin of the specimens and having regard to the fact that the animals are used in a commercial context, in accordance with Article 6 of the Law of 28 July 1981 approving the Agreement on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the Annex drawn up at Washington on 3 March 1973 and the amendments to the Agreement adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979, the administrative seizure of the four specimens described above should be carried out. On Thursday, November 5th, the inspection service Cel Suiten, together with employees of Nally's Parrot shelter, definitively confiscated the animals. The animals were housed in the parrot shelter. This is a temporary measure until our service has found a definitive place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u79	Colleagues, we all have to watch the timing, otherwise I will have to install a clock like this here. It appears to be efficient. No one should be impressed, but the secretariat tells me that the time limit is often discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u80	Mr President, I will do my best to keep my reply brief. Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Animal welfare is of course very important. I think that's very important, too. It's good that controls are being carried out. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of abuse, but I regret that the animals, who were well cared for here and seemed to be happy, are now in an environment where they may not have it very well. The owners were also able to show that these animals have been there for 20 years, at least on the basis of the information available to me. These include certificates of veterinarians. I feel like there was an disproportionate response. However, animal welfare is important. So I certainly will not condemn the people of the FPS and the inspectors for their decision, but I hope they can look at this situation with common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u81	Mr President, Minister, international climate negotiations always have a problem with international funding. This is about support from developed countries to developing countries, as developed countries have a historical responsibility for climate warming and currently also have a strong capacity to help developing countries in the fight against climate warming. The North-South NGOs have long been asking Belgium to drastically increase its contribution to international climate finance. This climate aid must be proportionate to the historical responsibilities and capacities of Belgium. In concrete terms, the dome 11.11.11-CNCD asks Belgium to provide an annual amount of 500 million. A pain in international climate financing is that it must be additional. This means that it must be additional funding and not just a shift from the existing development aid budget to climate projects. We welcome the intention in the government agreement to finally provide additional funding, in line with the international commitments made by Belgium with several international conventions. However, it is unclear what the amount is. Belgium's current commitment will end this year. This means that Belgium will formally renew its commitment to international climate finance by the end of this year. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, do you guarantee that Belgium will submit its commitment in good time and will dramatically increase it? Secondly, according to a calculation of 11.11.11, using objective criteria to calculate what a fair contribution would be for Belgium, Belgium should provide at least 500 million per year. Will you live up to this commitment? Thirdly, how much will Belgium's contribution to international climate financing be in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Daems, the questions you are asking about the report Evaluation of the socio-economic impact of climate change in Belgium are pertinent, but I can only reply briefly to them. I therefore propose that, if there is any interest in this, the authors of the study should go into it in greater depth in this committee. You rightly refer to the interesting literature study, because it quantifys many possible impacts of climate change on Belgium. I have three examples to illustrate that it is also relevant for all regions. Without additional adaptation measures, coastal damage costs will increase by 10-fold by 2050 and by 100-fold by 2100. Early deaths from heat will mainly affect urban centres such as Brussels due to the urban heat island effect. Finally, height and heat are...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u83	Mr President, Minister, I am sorry, but I think you are wrong to answer my next question. Could that be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u84	Mr President, Mrs Daems, it could be. I'm very tired. I took the wrong page. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u85	Madam Secretary, just take it back with the right answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u86	Mr President, Mrs Daems, the federal government recognises the importance of climate finance. The government is committed to increasing its contribution to international climate finance through the DGD, regardless of the development cooperation budget. The contribution of Belgium as a whole, of course, also depends on the commitment of the other entities. The Belgian contribution is therefore the subject of an agreement which has yet to be reached and to which I have already referred in other answers. We will conclude the agreement on the effort sharing 2021-2030 as soon as possible. And I apologize again, Mrs. Daems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u87	Mr President, Madam Secretary, it's okay. We've been here since 10:00 this morning. The day is long. So I do understand. However, I am somewhat disappointed in your answer. After all, I can still understand that you are not yet able to comment on the entire Belgian contribution. In the meantime, however, you must have an insight into the federal contribution. I have heard that in the initial version of the coalition agreement there was an amount of EUR 500 million. However, that amount did not reach the final version of the coalition agreement. So I am really curious when you will be able to clarify that. I repeat that it is urgent that Belgium renew its commitment by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u88	Mrs Daems, the next question follows and the Minister can already refer in part to the answer she has given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u89	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of September the Public Health Office published a study on the socio-economic consequences of climate change in Belgium. That study was carried out on behalf of the National Climate Committee. It would be EUR 9.5 billion per year, i.e. 2% of gross national product. The study details the costs by sector and reiterates that climate change will affect particularly vulnerable groups and people with lower incomes in Belgium. Can you share your vision of these results? Are they in line with expectations? What costs were charged in the final version of the NEKP? How are these costs proportionate to the investments proposed in the final NEFP? How much euro in absolute figures and how much percent of GDP is invested in climate action? In addition, a recent scientific publication calls into question such studies that try to quantify the socio-economic impact of climate change, essentially because they are based on illogical and simply wrong assumptions, including that 90% of GDP is by definition not affected by climate change because it concerns indoor activities. This publication concludes that the actual socio-economic impact can be an order size larger than is currently calculated. Can you confirm whether the study of the National Climate Commission contains similar principles, or not? In your opinion, are the current calculations a good estimate of the real impact of climate change? I know your answer may be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u90	Mrs Daems, I have already given you the three examples, but I can come back to them if you like. You rightly refer to the interesting study, which quantifys many possible impacts of climate change on Belgium. I will take just three examples which illustrate immediately that this is relevant for all regions. Coastal damage costs increase by 10-fold by 2050 without additional adaptation measures, and by 100-fold by 2100. Early deaths from heat will mainly affect urban centres such as Brussels, due to the urban heat island effect. Drought and heat are also detrimental to forests, because they affect the growth rate of trees and make the trees more vulnerable to the harmful bark beetles, and because they make the forests more vulnerable to fire, especially in the Ardennes. These possible impacts of climate change point to the highest need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt ourselves as closely as possible to the consequences that can no longer be avoided. For the sake of clarity, if the world does not reduce emissions, the consequences of climate change for our country will be catastrophic in the long term. It is therefore not a question of a choice between mitigation and adaptation, but of as much of both as possible. Fortunately, prominent climate scientists say that the goal of climate neutrality of the EU, China and the new administration in the United States will bring the goals of the Paris climate agreement within reach. In this sense, we are making considerable progress in the area of global mitigation, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The socio-economic impact the study points to is not included in our NEFP, which primarily includes measures to achieve the 2030 climate and energy targets. However, it goes without saying that we are taking these measures to reduce the costs of climate change and to reduce the benefits of good energy and climate policy. I share the analysis that quantifying the costs and benefits of climate change is very informative, but also has its limitations. After all, there are methodological limitations on what is measurable and there are value judgements on the value of human lives, rare animal species or the welfare of future generations. In economic science, this leads to discussion of what is or is not counted and what discount rate should be used. However, almost all studies show that it is socially and economically better to prevent climate change than to face it, which is enshrined in the Paris climate agreement and European regulation. In particular, studies of this kind should help us to shape a targeted adaptation policy, because certain governments, sectors or citizens are going to be more affected by climate change than others. It is my ambition not only to fight climate change, but also to deal with its consequences in a spirit of solidarity and fairness, and to use the federal levers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u91	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I would like to emphasise that the planned investments in the National Energy and Climate Plan are totally disproportionate to the socio-economic costs of the climate crisis. Moreover, I believe that this study contains a serious understatement of the real costs of climate change. We must be extremely careful and deal with such studies, which are based on very conservative principles. A recent scientific publication put the finger on the wound. Most studies on the economic impact of climate change underestimate the impact. This morning, in the debate on the policy statement, I asked how much the federal government will invest in the climate. You did not answer my question then, so I am sure that I will be talking about this again in two weeks' time when the budget is being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u92	Madam Minister, the aim of the EU Timber Regulation is to reduce illegal logging by prohibiting the sale of illegally harvested timber. Despite the existence of this European directive, illegal logging continues. Our country is one of the top importers of timber products in Europe, especially for the import of tropical timber. We therefore have an important role to play in combating deforestation and illegal logging.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u93	Mrs Daems, as laid down by law, the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) should be reviewed every six years. The next evaluation should be carried out in 2021. The European Commission is currently carrying out a fitness check of the EUTR, together with that of the closely linked FLEGT Regulation with a view to the upcoming review. It takes into account many factors such as the effectiveness, efficiency, coherence, relevance and added value of the EU in the fight against illegal logging. This preparatory phase is still under way. The European Commission has recently launched a public consultation to ask the general public and relevant stakeholders about the pertinence of EUTR and FLEGT. That must be done by November 26th. Previous evaluations and the findings of the European Expert Group following the implementation of FLEGT/EUTR in which Belgium actively participates indicate that the EUTR is not yet functioning optimally. Legislation is difficult to enforce and implementation in the EU is not yet sufficiently uniform, despite intense efforts. Belgium will continue to contribute to the evaluation, and lessons will undoubtedly have to be learned. However, it is still too early for a correct Belgian position on a possible revision. There is agreement between the regions and the federal government on the importance of these two dossiers. We have so far received little information from the European Commission. The public consultation Deforestation and forest degradation "Reducing the impact of products placed on the EU market" is linked to that of FLEGT and EUTR. The aim is to draw lessons from the experience of EUTR and FLEGT in future binding legislation on deforestation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u94	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. The fight against deforestation is crucial for protecting biodiversity and tackling the climate crisis. I am not entirely reassured that Belgium will play a leading role in this. Our country is a hub in the international trade of wood and wild species. I've questioned your predecessor, Mrs. Marghem, about it before. There is an urgent need for an action plan against trade in exotic animals and illegally harvested timber. The number of controls needs to rise dramatically. As far as the new binding European law is concerned, I would urge that other ecosystems should also be protected by this law. After all, other types of ecosystems also contain a wide variety and unique biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u95	Madam Minister, we all know by now that biofuels made from food crops are harmful to biodiversity, climate and global food security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u96	Mrs Daems, the choice for biofuels transport stems from a decision by the previous federal government and the other entities on fulfilling our obligations in relation to renewable energy and transport, which is part of the revised European Renewable Energy Directive. In the Federal Government, therefore, this falls primarily within the competence of the Minister for Energy. We therefore propose that the question be addressed to her, although we will of course approach the issue of biofuels in its entirety in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u97	Madam Minister, I have asked that question three times today, but I have still not received an answer. So I will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u98	Minister, the government agreement, in its climate component, provides for an annual climate assessment consultation with local authorities, including through climate round tables. At the same time, in its democratic renewal component, the federal government agreement provides for the establishment of citizens (composed in a mixed manner of parliamentarians and people drawn by lot) who would be responsible for developing recommendations to the legislature without any real knowledge (...) Nothing prevents the joint panel's recommendations from addressing climate issues. We can even expect that to be the case. And precisely, there were voices in favour of holding a citizen's parliament on the state of ecological emergency, and more specifically on climate. In a way, this demand to involve citizens in the political decision on climate objectives would be a combination of this need for democratic renewal with that of the climate emergency. Therefore, Minister, how do you intend to formalize this consultation with the local authorities? How would these roundtables be set up and composed? What follow-up do you intend to give to the establishment of a citizen parliament composed of citizens drawn by lot, which would make recommendations on climate objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u99	My colleague, the transition to climate neutrality is only possible if it is discussed and supported by all stakeholders. In consultation with the Regions, I will initiate a participatory process involving all stakeholders in order to make their contribution to the different possible trajectories for a just transition to a climate-neutral society in 2050 concrete in the construction, transport, industry, energy production and agriculture sectors. This work will be based on factual and in-depth analyses, some of which are currently being prepared. Preparations for these round tables are still under way. It's too early at this point for me to tell you more. But from the Dutch experience, we learn that everyone's participation makes a difference in the positive sense on the ground. We will learn from the Dutch experience. With regard to your question about the establishment of a parliament composed of citizens, I can already tell you that I met them last week. The initiative was therefore presented. I told them that their desire for citizen participation and transparency met with that of the government, that there would be an approach but that the citizen parliament would remain their initiative. I share with you, as with them, the importance of the reflection to be carried out in terms of the necessary democratic renewal. I am attentive to the many experiences throughout the world of citizen participation, including here, in Belgium, in certain cities and regions. The government agreement is clear in this respect: there is a desire to strengthen the confidence of citizens in the policy pursued in our country. This will undoubtedly involve opening up to new forms of participation. As I mentioned in my guidance note, I am of course very much in favour of more direct participation of citizens in politics, which will be implemented to address the environmental and climate emergency. In this regard, I am already in contact with civil society in order to reflect on the best forms of participation, but it is still too early to announce concrete elements. It should also be recalled that it is in connection with my colleagues, Ministers David Clarinval and Annelies Verlinden, who is responsible for democratic renewal and institutional reforms, that the best ways of involving our fellow citizens in the democratic decision-making process will be considered. I will therefore ensure that we can achieve concrete and, above all, effective responses, in order to be sure that this participation will advance the achievements envisaged in our climate and environmental policy. On the other hand, my will is to ensure that Parliament can, for its part, move forward and take the initiative on citizen participation. That is what I can answer to you at this stage of the work that is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic299x.u100	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I believe that citizen participation, as well as the way in which the government and Parliament will be able to implement it, are equally essential. Climate issues are also generational issues, in which it is not necessarily those who decide who will have to pay for the consequences of their decisions. You refer to the Dutch experience, but there have been many others. Thus, in the United States, James Fishkin demonstrated the importance of deliberation. We can replace parliamentarians with citizens, drawn by lot or not, but the most important thing is to manage to bring these people, through experience, to confront one another's point of view and to spend time around a proposal to reach a solution. In my view, if we succeed in applying this aspect of deliberation in the measures you are considering, then we will have succeeded.
