ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u1	Mrs Dierick, you asked me what steps I have taken in the past to encourage producers to increase the recyclability, repairability and sustainability of their appliances. As far as the new business model is concerned, a pilot project was carried out by the FPS Public Health in 2018 and 2019 with a company that provides lighting systems. That company wanted to change the business model for part of the product range and received guidance. The objective was to evolve into a product-as-a-service model. The company then provides a complete service to its customers and remains the owner of the installations and products it makes available. The guidance was to determine what needs to be changed at the design level of products and installations so that the components and materials can be easily recovered and reused later on. The lessons learned from these projects in product design were assessed in the framework of the work of the CEN-CENELEC Committee to set standards for the efficient use of resources in products. A guide for the companies was developed. The guide is still too complex at this stage to be widely distributed. In a second phase, the guide will be simplified and then distributed digitally. As regards the proportion of recycled plastic, in 2018 a study was carried out on behalf of the FPS Public Health to develop criteria that a producer wishing to allow to communicate about the proportion of recycled plastic in its products. This study reviews the various existing certification systems based on the mass balance. This resulted in a number of schemes that provide an equal basis for future certification of the proportion of recycled plastic. It is also important to note that in the context of the implementation of the new Directive on the one-off use of certain plastic products, the SUP or single-use plastics directive, the European Commission is developing a method that is also based on the mass balance to determine the proportion of recycled plastic in bottles. Those bottles should contain 25% of recycled plastic by 2025 and 30% by 2030. The results of the Belgian study will therefore be evaluated in the context of this new European work. The Public Health Office and the Environment DG will ensure that they take an active part in the work. In collaboration with the Benelux partners, the FPS Public Health co-financed a study on repairability in 2018. The objective of the study was to establish horizontal remedial criteria for all product categories, including decommissioning, the availability of loose pieces, the availability of repair lines, take-back systems, etc., and to contribute to the work of the CEN-CENELEC standardisation committee. Within the framework of the European Ecodesign Directive, that committee has been asked by the European Commission to develop horizontal standards for the more efficient use of resources, such as repair or recovery of components, recyclability, etc. Those standards will then be developed by product category covered by the Ecodesign Directive. The Public Health Office closely follows the work of CEN and is on the drafting committee of several working groups. In this context, the FPS has thus used and applied the results of the study on repairability, with the support of the Benelux colleagues. The issue of consumer communication needs to be further deepened. The European Commission is examining how to set up a pilot project on this subject. As regards recyclability, as already mentioned, the Public Health Office is closely involved in the work of the CEN-CENELEC EU Committee, which is responsible for developing horizontal standards for the more efficient use of resources. For example, the FOD contributed to the development of the standard for the recyclability of products and he followed that up. A strategic monitoring was launched at the recycling centres at the end of 2017. Over a period of three years, it is intended to analyse 13 material flows, e.g. pmd, waste electrical and electronic equipment, glass, paper, textiles, hazardous waste and construction waste, to identify elements related to product design that undermine the recycling of those products and the recovery of a component. The observations shall be made on the site at the sorting and recycling centres. On the basis of the findings, proposals will be made to remove the obstacles. This may be an action at the level of the sorting centres themselves, at the level of the producer, including distributors producers, or at the level of the Belgian or European legislator. After a public presentation, a joint working group was set up with the DETIC federations, for cosmetics, detergents and adhesives, Fevia, for food, and Comeos for trade and distribution. On the basis of the proposed results and contact with the parties concerned, members of that working group were instructed to present a series of actions in the desired direction. For example, they have organised training courses within their federations and have asked internal think groups for proposals to improve the design of certain products. For that last point, the process is still under way. The results will be presented to us in a few months' time. In the specific case of waste electrical and electronic equipment, WEEE, a working group, such as that with DETIC, Fevia and Comeos, is established with Agoria. The results of this working group will also be presented to us in a few months' time. Z I come to your second question. As I have already demonstrated, I have asked my administration, in collaboration with the FPS Economy and the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development, to propose new actions in consultation with the social stakeholders, in support of the development of the circular economy at federal level. Many proposals relate to the recycling and restoration of product sustainability in general. As far as your third and final question is concerned, ten Ecodesign Regulations were adopted on 1 October 2019. These were published at the end of 2019. Belgium has always supported the requirements regarding the availability of spare parts and repair information. I am therefore satisfied with these new rules, which will help both consumers and independent repairers. As mentioned above, my administration has actively contributed to a specific supporting standard currently being prepared at CEN-CENELEC level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u2	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply, which contains a great deal of information. I am, of course, pleased that work is already taking place on many fronts and that this issue is being addressed mainly at Benelux and European level. I think these are the right levels at which that should be done. As a country alone, we cannot do much. This needs to be addressed at European level. I welcome the fact that there are pilot projects from which we can learn lessons. It would be good to get regular feedback on this in Parliament, for example when studies have been completed that we can discuss its conclusions. That is a subject that we certainly need to put on the agenda in order to tackle. In my first question I had asked for some figures on complaints. I didn't get it, but you can give it to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u3	I'll get the numbers on the complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u5	Mrs Dierick, in February, several storms that affected part of the EU significantly increased the production of electricity from wind energy and thus the share of renewable energy sources in electricity production. In Belgium nearly 25% of demand was covered by wind turbines. In March, wind energy production was back at January level and there was more exports than imports. We do not have consolidated data for April, but it seems that total consumption has fallen again. The IEA has been able to perform some analyses, which seem to indicate weekly records for the share of intermittent HEBs sun and wind in electricity consumption in Spain and Italy, for example. Those records should be compensated by the overall decrease in electricity consumption during the lockdown. My administration does not have enough complete official data to carry out a sufficiently detailed analysis of the evolution of the past few weeks. At this stage, however, we can say that there is no evidence of a significant decrease in the share of renewable energy sources in the mix of energy sources used for electricity production in Belgium in recent weeks. An absolute decrease in production from renewable energy sources is possible, although there is evidence that some production surpluses were exported. In this case, the intermittent nature of the main renewable energy sources, wind and sun, must not be forgotten. The non-exhaustive data collected at this stage show a significant decrease for April in absolute terms of their production. Weak wind conditions can explain the drop. With regard to Belgium's neighbouring countries, it is still too early to draw up an inventory. Some data collected by the IEA appear to indicate that solar and wind energy production as a percentage of consumption does not significantly decrease. The results for neighbouring countries are general trends, the results for Belgium in recent weeks are based on unofficial and not yet validated data. In reply to your first, third, fifth and sixth questions, I have already replied to the question No. Mr Verduyckt's 635 at the plenary session of 23 April 2020 and then at the committee meeting of 29 April 2020. I repeat what I said. In this respect, the CREG derives its powers from the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, better known as REMIT. The aim of REMIT is to create a European regulatory framework, specifically for the wholesale market, to improve its functioning and to prevent and, where appropriate, punish abuse, market manipulation, attempted market manipulation or insider dealing. The aim is therefore to avoid any behaviour leading to unfair competition and to undermine the confidence of energy market participants. In this way, the determination of prices on the wholesale market should be based on a correct interaction between supply and demand. In accordance with its regulatory powers, the CREG continuously monitors the behaviour of all market players, which, of course, is taking place with even more attention during the current very exceptional period. The CREG has indeed established that ENGIE does not modulate its nuclear production in the current period of April. As you have already pointed out, this has an impact on the electricity market. As the CREG regularly does in the context of its powers, it has asked specific questions about this fact to Electrabel. It is not uncommon for the CREG to ask a market player for information, when facts occur that do not occur frequently and therefore require some clarification. At the moment, it's not a formal investigation. The CREG does, however, analyse the facts that have occurred. If ENGIE argues with regard to the safety of the plants, I encourage the CREG to contact the safety authority, the FANC, to have the arguments verified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u7	Mr President, Minister, eight major companies in the port of Antwerp have signed a cooperation agreement to examine the technical and economic feasibility of Carbon Capture Utilisation & Storage (CCUS) and the construction of a CO2 infrastructure to support this. The consortium has since been baptized Antwerp@C and submitted applications to obtain European grants for extensive research on this project at the end of May 2020. This concerns the construction of a new pipeline network, a connection with Rotterdam and the construction of an installation to make CO2 liquid and thus ship. The consortium aims to halve the 18 million tonnes of greenhouse gases that it emits, a substantial part of the total greenhouse gas emissions in Flanders. On 15 January 2020, you said in committee that the division of powers on decarbonisation in Belgium is complex. On the initiative of the Federal Government and in consultation with the Regions, a legal analysis of the precise distribution of these powers was launched. The aim was to develop a coherent policy. Within the framework of the European Green Deal, the European Commission would propose a decarbonisation package for the gas sector which would include the aspects of future energy policy in that area. During the preparation of the decarbonisation package, a cooperation between the federal government and the Regions was already launched in 2019 under ENOVER. This cooperation would be strengthened. Madam Minister, can you give an update on that legal analysis of the distribution of powers in this area? Is the federal government, like the Flemish government, prepared to support the project of the consortium in Antwerp which can lead to a significant reduction in CO2 in Belgium? Can you give an update on developments regarding the decarbonisation package for the gas sector in the framework of the European Green Deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u8	Mr Ravyts, the federal government recognises the need for deep decarbonisation of the energy system in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, including renewable and decarbonised gases, including hydrogen and synthetic fuels, as well as further electrification. In order to produce such gases and fuels, CCUS can form an interesting slope, for example by producing so-called blue hydrogen by SMR in combination with CCUS. However, the division of powers between the different entities in Belgium to develop policies on this decarbonisation, including CCUS, is complex, inter alia because different policy areas are directly or indirectly involved: besides Energy and Environment, including Mobility, Industrial Policy and Innovation. The AD Energy has therefore asked an external consultant for advice on a number of legal-technical aspects related to the division of competences on hydrogen and renewable gas as input to develop the federal position. In the meantime, this opinion was delivered to the AD Energy, where it is still being studied. In any event, any aid to the Antwerp@C consortium by the federal government can only be decided after the results of the analysis are known by the AD Energy. On 11 December 2019, the European Commission published the European Green Deal, which outlines the outlines of the priorities for the Von der Leyen Commission. It extended the scope of the previously announced decarbonisation package for the gas sector to a broader initiative on smart sector integration. For example, the optimal interaction between different energy carriers such as electricity, gas, heat and hydrogen, and between various policy areas, in particular Energy Transport, Industrial Policy and Agriculture, will be considered in order to achieve cost-effective decarbonisation of the energy system. According to the latest information, the publication of this communication on smart sector integration, which will provide the overarching framework for more targeted initiatives at EU level, e.g. for hydrogen, is planned for the end of June. My administration is therefore fully preparing for this and has already initiated initial consultations with the Regions in order to be able to determine a Belgian position in an efficient way once the document is published.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for the accurate information. The opinion was delivered to the AD Energy and is being studied. I guess I'm just in time, 'cause by the end of June, that's today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u10	That was the moment of the administration's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u11	I fully understand that. Together with you, I look forward to the overarching framework in relation to that smart sector integration. I will certainly come back to this in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I would like to interrupt. Is it possible that the questions are wrongly merged? Questions about the Just Transition Fund and the Energy Transition Fund have been merged under this item, but there are still questions about the Energy Transition Fund on the agenda. It's the order of questions that matters to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u13	I have received four questions about the Energy Transition Fund and one or two about the Just Transition Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u14	My question is about the Just Transition Fund. That has nothing to do with the Energy Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u15	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u16	I suggest we keep the order as it is on the agenda. I just wanted to point it out because questions about the Energy Transition Fund will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u17	I suggest that we simply follow the agenda to avoid confusion. Madam Secretary, do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u19	Mr Ravyts, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u20	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission proposes that 25% of all EU programmes that transfer money to Member States should be spent on greening. The European Transition Fund for the regions that are struggling with energy transition or conversion is now, at least according to the press, receiving much more resources. To finance this Just Transition Fund, linked to cohesion policy, the European Commission initially put a budget of EUR 7.5 billion first in spring. Now that, at least according to the press, is increasing to EUR 40 billion, with the Belgian budget rising to EUR 380 million, I speak conditionally from EUR 68 million to EUR 380 million. The release of fully allocated funding from the Just Transition Fund is, of course, linked to the evolution of national targets towards climate neutrality by 2050. In the February 2020 Consultation Committee, governments in this country have also committed themselves to regularly updating the national long-term strategy and thus reaffirming the common will to strive for carbon neutrality. At the heart of my question is the actual allocation of the JTF funds, which is done through the territorial Just Transition Plans. Even though European cohesion policy in Belgium has so far been implemented exclusively by the Regions, it is extremely important to use the JTF's financial resources properly. Consequently, in the spring, you stated that consultations should be held as soon as possible with the Regions, the Communities and all stakeholders. Madam Minister, can you confirm that the resources for the JTF will be increased by the European Commission and that the resources for Belgium will therefore also increase to EUR 380 million? That's what the press said. I'm just asking for your confirmation. What is the intra-Belgian state of affairs regarding the preparation of the Belgian territorial Just Transition Plan? To what extent has this already been discussed with the Regions? Can you give an overview of the handling of this dossier at DGE level, in CCIM, within ENOVER and within the FPS Finance, which you stated on 11 February that the FPS Finance had been asked to take on a coordinating role in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question is more specific and concerns the Energy Transition Fund funded by the extension of Doel 1 and 2. You have taken the decision to grant the Fund this year €23 million to 15 energy projects in different sectors, of which €7.7 million, or one third, must be allocated to the nuclear sector. I would like to know more about the projects supported in the nuclear sector (duration, beneficiaries, etc.).).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u22	Mr Warmoes has been prevented. He is asking for his question No. To convert 55006938C into a written question, but since it concerns combined questions this is not possible, therefore the question will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u23	Mr President, Minister, my question is not about the Just Transition Fund but about the Energy Transition Fund. For the introduction, I refer to the question submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u24	It concerns the Energy Transition Fund and the approved projects. Which beneficiaries received a grant? How much goes on renewable energy in the North Sea, so excluding biofuels? There are a lot of nuclear energy projects. How do they contribute to the energy transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u25	Mr President, I should like to start by answering Mr Ravyts' questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u26	That's good. Then it can replicate and then you can answer with regard to the Energy Transition Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u27	Mr President, as you know, the European Commission published its proposal for a Next Generation EU recovery plan on 27 May. It contains a proposal to increase the funding for the Just Transition Fund to EUR 40 billion. For Belgium, this would indeed mean EUR 380 million instead of the original EUR 67.4 million. It is of course a good thing that Belgium will have more resources to support the just transition in our country. Climate neutrality, however, obviously requires much more than this sum. We must not lose sight of the fact that, because of the lack of climate neutrality as a national objective, the possibility of halving the fund still prevails. This would be a great loss for our country. The increase in resources for the JTF would be a step in the right direction, but caution remains necessary. Moreover, this is still a proposal from the European Commission which is still to be approved by the European Parliament and the Council. With regard to the status of the Territorial Just Transition Plans, on 26 May, the Task Force Sustainable Finance, under the wings of the FPS Finance, first discussed the state of play of the JTF and the Just Transition Mechanism, of which the fund is part, within Belgium. As regards the steps for the development of territorial plans, technical and political consultations between the federal government and the Regions will take place in July to establish the terms of reference for the transition plan, in consultation with DG REFORM and DG REGIO of the European Commission. Which Belgian decision-making body will formally validate the terms or reference has not yet been decided. More important at the moment is that the actions of all the authorities concerned are coordinated as closely as possible. In August, the Commission issued the public contract. Technical assistance will then be provided in October. Finally, I would like to point out that under the National Energy and Climate Plan, the federal government has been instructed to organise a national debate on fair transition, involving all political actors, authorities and stakeholders. This dialogue will be supported by an analysis of the positive and negative effects of the transition to a climate-neutral society and will focus in particular on identifying policy options. It goes without saying that the outcome of this social dialogue is also an important element in any decision concerning the use of the resources that Belgium would receive from the JTF.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for updating the situation. I remember that on 26 May there was a first consultation of the FPS Finance on sustainable finance. There will also be a technical and political consultation in July. In August there will be a public contract at European level. The national dialogue in the NEKP on the fair transition, where the use of resources will be determined, is also very important. Thank you for the update. We will also discuss this after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the call for projects of 31 October 2019, 42 project proposals were received within the deadline, i.e. until 31 January 2020. Of these proposals, sixteen meet the selection or participation criteria; 15 of the 16 eligible projects received at least 50% of the overall rating for the award criteria. The Council of Ministers of 6 June 2020 therefore agreed to grant a grant to 15 projects totalling EUR 23 006 075. The projects are divided according to the three thematic axes of the Energy Transition Fund as described in detail in the call for projects in force on 31 October 2019 published on the SPF Economie website. In the light of the powers of the Federal State under the Energy Transition Fund, the three thematic axes are as follows: axis 1, renewable energy sources in the Belgian exclusive economic zone in the North Sea and biofuels; axis 2, nuclear energy; axis 3, security of supply and balance of the transport network. For a detailed description of these thematic axes, it is also referred to the October 2019 call for project proposals. I am going to send you, during this committee meeting, a picture that I am obviously not going to describe verbally because a small drawing is better than a long speech. This table will allow you to assess the quality of the projects or, in any case, their name, the thematic axis to which they respond and the amount of aid granted to them. In addition, you can see a more detailed table showing the descriptions of the 15 projects selected. To do so, I will provide you with the link that will allow you to access it. All the selection and participation criteria in force are listed in Chapter 3 of the call for projects, the issue of which, as I said, dates from October 31, 2019. This call for projects can be found on the Energy Transition Fund's website by clicking on the link I'm going to give you. The second thematic focus of the Energy Transition Fund on nuclear energy is to encourage research and development in innovative nuclear energy projects: fission and fusion, nuclear safety, dismantling, radioactive waste and spent fuel management with a view to preparing for the phase-out of nuclear energy. This list is not exhaustive. Mrs Van der Straeten, I can repeat what I have just said in Dutch, if you wish. But I think that you understand French very well and that no one wants to hear me read Dutch, a language that I may be less familiar with. We will send you during the commission the table and the links
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you. I am pleased to receive this link with the more specific details of the projects concerned. I must admit that I find it rather paradoxical that a fund which must provide for the exit of nuclear power, and which is financed by the extension of the Doel 1 and 2 reactors, is actually financing new projects in this sector. All the more so because the Euratom Directive requires the operator to take into account and bear all the costs relating to the management of radioactive waste, including the costs of research and development. I am thinking of a similar fund, the European Commission's Fair Transition Fund. We realize that the nuclear sector is completely excluded from this committee fund. I find it surprising that in Belgium we do not follow this development at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u31	Mr President, I have an answer for Mrs van der Straeten to her second question. No renewable energy projects in the North Sea have been selected this year, but they may not have been submitted either. In the previous calls were selected. Such projects usually have a long duration, which can be up to five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u32	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, which is a repetition of the legal framework and a repetition of what is on the website. In the end, we are talking about a number of other things, namely the assessment of projects. On the list of approved projects, a number of things are very striking. Apparently no fundamental research is done in Flanders, only in Wallonia. In addition, the assessment of the criteria for fundamental versus non-basic research should be considered. We are going to have the tableau and then we can take another look at it, but there are a number of special projects. ArcelorMittal's project concerns carbon extraction from coal combustion. This is being emitted and that is a biofuel project. I think that's something special. I have serious questions about the projects selected and whether they do meet the criteria. Do these projects really contribute to the energy transition? Maybe we should have a global exercise over the years. There have been a number of project calls over the years. We need to look at how the fund can work better so that the projects approved in it are actually more relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u33	I believe that we must first analyze the entire file, which is accessible to you through the links that I am going to communicate to you. Legislation can, of course, always evolve and can be put forward. I'm not saying things are perfect. The royal decree which establishes all the criteria and which serves as a rule for the administration to evaluate the projects proposed each year can obviously be criticized and improved. It should be discussed at a later stage, when everyone has the same knowledge of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u34	Mr Cogolati, do I have to answer you now or can I do so in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u35	Madam Minister, if you send me your answer quite quickly, that's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u36	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55006757C by Mr Ben Accour and 55006759C by Mr Wollants are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u37	Madam Minister, in October 2018, then Federal Minister for Consumer Affairs, Kris Peeters concluded an agreement with all the energy ministers of Belgium to simplify the energy bill. Consumers needed to understand more about their consumption, their cost, the terms of their contract and the exact way in which the invoice is split up. This simplification had to be completed by 1 March 2019. According to statements by the Flemish Minister of Energy at the beginning of April 2019, the further implementation of the agreement would be prevented or made difficult by the federal government entering current cases. Can you confirm that the October 2018 agreement to simplify the energy bill could not be fully implemented? What aspects of the agreement still need to be implemented? What legal changes are needed for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u38	Mr President, I will be very brief. I totally agree, but I'm not qualified for the file. That is the responsibility of the Minister of Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u39	I am surprised, Madam Minister, because I believe that the agreement was concluded with the various energy ministers. The Minister for Consumers is also involved in this, but it seems strange to me. So I will also address my question to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u40	First, I will simply reply to Mrs Dierick, who lived with me in the previous legislature, that it was a gesture of kindness and collegiality by Mr Kris Peeters. Secondly, the text before me is very clear. My administration is of the opinion that this is the responsibility of the Minister of Consumer Affairs. I am therefore my administration, but I would like to remind Mrs Muylle that we have this agreement – because she does not know it – and to work with her as quickly as possible, knowing that she is busy with a lot of other things. We can talk to him about it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u41	I was going to say the same thing as my colleague Dierick. Madam Secretary, you were present in October 2018. I understand now that this was a collective gesture of gentleman Kris Peeters. We will ask Mrs Muylle about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u42	Mr Warmoes has asked his question No. 55006815C turn into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the political agreement reached at the Pentalateral Forum on the role of hydrogen in the coming period. This showed and is also reflected in a number of other signals that we hear, that the Netherlands wants to play a leading role in a climate-neutral energy supply in Europe in the coming years. It sees hydrogen as a crucial factor. It therefore wishes to further position itself as a kind of hydrogen hub in North-West Europe. This Pentalateral Forum includes, of course, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, France, Austria and Switzerland, as well as the Netherlands. Madam Secretary, that is why I would have liked to hear from you the following. What exactly was decided during that Pentalateral Forum? What are the consequences for the federal policy on hydrogen in Belgium? What role will Belgium play in the further development of hydrogen in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u44	Madam Minister, my question is, of course, in line with Mr Van Lommel's question. We have noted that the Pentalateral Energy Forum has made a statement on the cooperation to be provided in the field of hydrogen quite recently during May 2020. The commitment or intention is to develop a shared long-term vision, identify any regulatory or trade obstacles, promote the cross-border use of hydrogen and so on. Mr Van Lommel has already referred to the Netherlands, but Germany has also recently proposed its national strategy on hydrogen. Madam Secretary, that's why I have some questions for you. What was the role of Belgium in preparing the Joint Political Declaration of the Pentalateral Energy Forum? What specific emphasis has Belgium placed on this issue? How do you view the development of hydrogen? Where do you see a role for our country? What does Belgium expect from the European strategy on hydrogen? What views were expressed by our country to the European Commission? Is a national hydrogen strategy in cooperation with the Regions also on the agenda for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u45	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, at the end of May the joint declaration of the Pentalateral Energy Forum on hydrogen was indeed signed by the Penta-countries, including Belgium. In that statement, the Penta Member States essentially express their commitment to strengthen cooperation in the field of hydrogen produced in a CO2 reducing manner, with the aim of contributing to the full decarbonisation of the energy system, mainly with a focus on hydrogen produced from renewable energy sources. This green hydrogen will play a role in the decarbonisation process especially in the longer term. The role of hydrogen in the decarbonisation process is mainly recognised in the context of decarbonisation of difficult to decarbonise sectors such as industry and transport. Hydrogen will also play an important role in an integrated future energy system in Europe, based on sector coupling. As there is no new federal government yet, there is no integrated national strategy on hydrogen. It is therefore not yet clear what the concrete consequences are for the federal policy on hydrogen. However, the interfederal reflection paper on hydrogen, which was drawn up in 2019, mentioned that the federal government initially has a facilitating and coordinating role. As things stand today, it will be taken as a basis. In mid-June, the European Commission would issue both a smart sector integration strategy and a hydrogen strategy. For Belgium, too, hydrogen development is likely to play an important role in an integrated future energy system in Europe, based on sector coupling. Hydrogen opportunities are generally found in the industrial sector, for example in refineries and the steel and chemical industries. The Belgian ports also seem to have a major role to play: the ports of Antwerp and Ghent and Port of Zeebrugge. In addition, several Belgian companies, such as Colruyt, Air Liquide and Agfa-Gevaert, are already strong players in hydrogen technology and want to develop it further. In addition, on 6 March, the FPS Economy launched a call for expressions of interest from the federal and regional Belgian entities for an IPCEI hydrogen pardonez-moi, maize je ne connais pas l'acronyme. The aim of OIB is to identify those actors who could participate in these projects on a European scale on Belgian territory, and I note that there is currently no IPCEI hydrogen as such. On this basis, a substantiated decision will be taken on the participation in IPCEE hydrogen. In a more general sense, Belgium will also continue to focus on the analysis of the opportunities for the development of hydrogen. Mr Delvaux, Belgium is an active member of the Pentalateral Energy Forum. The pen for that statement was held by Austria and the Netherlands as leaders of hydrogen. My services have followed the discussions closely and actively, together with representatives of the Regions. Belgium therefore fully supports the message of the political declarations. On your second and fourth questions, hydrogen is certainly very important for Belgium. A number of test projects are already under way, including in the port of Antwerp and at Fluxys. My services also provide the permits for the hydrogen lines. My administration is currently examining the powers for the development and use of hydrogen. On that basis, we will propose a federal vision on hydrogen. Structural energy consultations are already taking place on hydrogen with the Regions in the Hydrogen Working Group to develop a national vision on hydrogen. On 18 July, the European Commission will propose the strategy it has developed without consulting the Member States. So we will carefully examine the Commission's strategy proposal and submit our comments in order to achieve a balanced strategy that meets our expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u46	Madam Minister, the objectives of the Pentalateral Forum are, of course, expressed in terms of commitment. The focus is on green hydrogen in the context of further decarbonisation. You said that there is no new federal government yet, and although I have some sympathy for that, I can only hope that people have not been idle in recent years. If such consultations take place, I wonder what Belgium actually has to say in that debate. After all, these meetings are very important. You say the federal government has a facilitating role when it comes to the further investigation of opportunities. That answer is therefore rather vague and woolly. There is no doubt that we can be more ambitious with regard to hydrogen. After all, we see that the Netherlands wants to be an absolute leader for the whole of Europe. Why can't we just step up, investigate the opportunities and pull the cart along?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u47	Madam Minister, it is important that we have historically many pipelines in Belgium. You have also referred to the various pilot projects, small and large, which are now under way. The green hydrogen sector in particular is very positive. So Belgium has a lot of assets in the hydrogen story that we need to use and we need to call on Europe to be ambitious in it. We need to work on a clear vision of hydrogen while at the same time ensuring that we do not miss the boat. We already have a pioneering role in offshore activity, let's also develop it in relation to hydrogen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u48	With this question, I will look at a specific aspect of project funding. Madam Minister, you have announced that 15 projects worth EUR 23 million will be subsidised and that half of the grants will go to projects of renewable energy production at sea. As a federal minister, are you also following the Flemish range? In February 2019, the Flemish government and some companies signed the Blue Cluster Pact, with which they want to focus on sustainable initiatives on, in and around the North Sea. Here, too, we are working with a call for projects that aim more broadly than only for renewable energy. At the beginning of last year, one of the members of the cluster announced a project for a multifunctional island at sea, including energy generation and energy storage. The aim of the study was to assess the techno-economic feasibility of a multi-use island. The Federal Energy Transition Fund grants a feasibility study on the profitability of a multifunctional island with important energy function off the Belgian coast, namely the C-nergy project. The study C-nergy is based on a combination of innovative techniques for energy generation and energy storage on an artificial island. Both projects deal with the same subject, unless the Minister can refute it. The focus of the fifteen-month federal subsidised study of Econopolis Strategy nv, Uliège and Dredging International is on all energy-related activities and potential cost reductions. Are the projects under the Energy Transition Fund actually targeted at Flemish innovation projects related to the blue economy, especially when they include energy generation in the North Sea? To what extent is cooperation between the federal government and the Land of Flanders on future renewable energy production and energy storage at sea, regardless of some legal procedures on permits? I refer, for example, to the plans for hydrogen plants and the opinion delivered to DG Energy by the external agency mentioned in a previous question. You subsidise, the Flemish government subsidises, but in fact the subsidised projects have the same objective. Could you give me some clarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u49	Mr Ravyts, as far as your first question is concerned, so far the nature of the projects envisaged in the Energy Transition Fund has not been aligned with the Flemish Blue Economy innovation projects, even if they are intended to generate energy in the North Sea. As regards the second question, in the framework of the offshore tender and the onshore grid enhancement, a specific working group on ENOVER, within the framework of the so-called licensing and facilitation committee, regularly consults the federal and regional authorities. Cooperation between federal and regional authorities around hydrogen is also part of the ENOVER Working Groups on Hydrogen and Storage, Smart Sector Integration, among others. Since the transmission system operator Elia is also responsible for the development of the transmission network in the Belgian part of the North Sea, offshore production units are connected to the transmission network at sea. For example, the energy is made available for any kind of reduction, both on land and at sea, and thus also for the announced hydrogen plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u50	Madam Secretary, as I expected, your answer is short and measured. There is indeed no coordination between the projects in the Energy Transition Fund and the Flemish innovation projects. If you think about it, that is strange. Some companies go to the federal government and submit their projects, while others are part of the Blue Cluster with the Flemish government, while I think it is the same, namely energy generation and energy storage on an artificial island. I don't think that's an ideal situation. You are not responsible for this, but your party is still fond of federalism for cooperation, and I think that there should be some thought about it, all the more so because there is cooperation on the offshore tender and the landing of renewable energy. That makes sense, in accordance with the powers of the licensing authorities. We can come back to this in the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u51	Madam Secretary, I did not receive an answer. I would still like an answer to my question or at least the overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u52	I can refer to the answer I gave earlier, but I can also, as suggested, send it to you by e-mail during this meeting. You will then be able to examine it in detail, including through the computer links to the Economy FPS site, which will allow you to see the quality of the files in the smallest detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u53	Madam Minister, on 20 May 2020, Europe proposed the 2030 Biodiversity Strategy Bringing Nature Back into our Lives. It's quite a sandwich, I'll summarize it briefly. By that date, 30% of the European country and 30% of the sea will be considered a protected area. The things that linger are the planting of three billion trees, the reduction of pesticide use by 50% and the whole approach to rivers. Madam Minister, I assume that you have taken note of this strategy in the meantime. I would like to receive an initial response from you regarding this performance. What does this mean, in your view, for Belgium in terms of nature expansion and restoration and in terms of budget? Today, in our country, 37% of the sea area is protected, through the Natura 2000 plan. In practice, however, we see that it is mainly about paper protection and that there are still a lot of activities taking place there. Does that mean that this strategy will finally change?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u54	Mr President, the 2030 EU Biodiversity Strategy, with its proposed objectives, was welcomed, firstly because of the need for urgent action to protect and restore biological diversity and soil. It was also welcomed in view of the impact of biodiversity loss on the economy, our health, citizens' well-being, climate, food and so on. It is for these reasons that the strategy takes a holistic approach, involving all relevant sectors, in order to arrive at an integrated approach. The federal government welcomes this approach. The objective of nature expansion includes areas with legal protection status, such as reserves, areas with important natural values managed in a sustainable and nature-oriented manner and connecting zones between the areas. In implementing the EU strategy, no concrete targets have yet been set for each country. This would also be premature, taking into account the fact that this strategy will for the time being only lay the foundations for the international negotiations on a global biodiversity framework, which will be adopted next year in the Convention on Biological Diversity. After this, the objectives will have a concrete impact. A specific network of federal level experts, as well as the three Regions, was established for this dossier. Through this group, the consultation on this strategy is already ongoing. This group is currently preparing the position sheet, which will then be submitted to the Cabinets in preparation for the informal Council on the Environment of the European Union, scheduled for the end of June. Cooperation will also take place with the network of experts working on the Farm to Fork Strategy to ensure a consistent approach to both strategies. What does this mean in concrete terms for Belgium? The strategy indicates that a significant proportion of the 25% of the EU budget allocated to climate objectives will be invested in biodiversity, in particular through nature-based solutions. The implementation of climate action will thus also address biodiversity challenges. The common agricultural policy will also contribute partly to funding in order to ensure coherence and consistency between European biodiversity and the Farm to Fork Strategy. An implementation plan with concrete measures, indicators and milestones, instruments and resources will be developed in a subsequent phase, following the adoption of the biodiversity strategy by the European Parliament and by the European Council. On this basis, the budgetary impact can be determined. The European Biodiversity Strategy also provides an opportunity for financial support for implementing measures, the establishment of cooperation and capacity building. Investing in the protection, recovery and sustainable use of biodiversity is also essential for economic recovery after COOVID-19. For example, it was calculated that the cost-benefit ratio for an effective global nature conservation plan is at least 100 out of 1. This is not surprising as the Global Economic Forum sees biodiversity losses, climate change and other environmental challenges as the biggest risks to the economy. In addition, investing in natural capital is seen as one of the five most important fiscal recovery measures with the highest economic multiplier effect and a positive climate impact. The strategy stipulates that 10% of the defined 30% of the area should be strictly protected. It also provides for the establishment and implementation of an action plan with concrete objectives, measures and monitoring for all Natura 2000 sites. According to the provisions of the Habitats Directive, activities in Natura 2000 can continue, provided that they were assessed for potential environmental impacts and no impact is caused on the natural values present. In addition, certain activities are permitted and nature restoration is also carried out in this area. In the Belgian part of the North Sea it is mainly about restoring gravel beds. Underwater noise is also limited in order not to disturb the natural habitat of porpoises and seabirds, among others. Given the urgent need to halt biodiversity loss, including in marine areas, strict protection is now being introduced on a limited area of demarcated areas. Therefore, it is not necessary to strictly protect the entire marine Natura 2000 site, but to implement and monitor the management plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your initial response. Climate change and biodiversity are, as you say, the biggest challenges in terms of environment. Moreover, they are very closely linked, and so is the health crisis that we are experiencing today. You say that this is welcomed, and that is important: I expect you, as a minister, to welcome and say the same thing. Furthermore, you say that there are no concrete objectives yet and that further implementation plans need to be made. In the future, therefore, we will certainly talk about this. I look forward to that, because there are a lot of interesting things to say about that. Nature restoration does not always go hand in hand with planting trees and such, but we can have those concrete discussions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u56	Madam Minister, EY carried out an audit covering the functioning of NIRAS and the effectiveness of project management. I have the following questions. When did the audit take place and what exactly was the audit about and what was not? What were the conclusions of the audit? What issues were addressed and where; in terms of internal organisation, processes and procedures, or points that need to be addressed through any legislative amendment? Finally, can you deliver the report to the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u57	Mr President, I need a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u58	You may also give me the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u59	Maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u60	Today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u61	I hope so. We do not have the answers from the administration at the moment, but perhaps in the afternoon. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u62	Madam Minister, as soon as you receive them, please send them to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u63	If they don't get to you fast enough, send me an e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u64	That's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u65	Of course, I'm not gonna stand by the computer to check. In any case, my collaborator will do it; if it is not this afternoon, it may be tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u66	On the other hand, this issue was set out in our agenda on 9 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u67	June 9th, yes, I know. I agree. Sometimes you have to insist a little. I insist, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u68	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is my responsibility that there would have been a stoppage of subsidies to the French- and Flemish environmental federations in 2019, when we know the importance of their collegial work, in particular for the preparation of successive COPs in which Belgium participated and for federal environmental plans. By the end of 2019 you would have told environmental federations that you would no longer be able to implement the corresponding funding, since the government at the time was in day-to-day business, while the programs were already in place and the subsidies were already taken into account in the respective accounts of these federations. The situation at the government level has changed since then and is likely to change in the coming days. This is why the federations strongly hope to see federal funding provided. Minister, is it envisaged to allocate the subsidies as they were already allocated to environmental federations in recent years, so that they can fund their 2019 and 2020 missions? If not, can you provide me with the reasons why the federal government has definitively terminated or could permanently put an end to subsidies for regional environmental federations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u69	Mr.President, Minister, the four environmental federations (IEW, BBL, BRAL and IEB) did not receive the 2019 federal subsidies. They had responded to the call for projects in accordance with the regulations, but you were unable to respond to the request for grants, and the amounts that should have been allocated to them were therefore totally lost. However, the work has been well done, including their contribution to your National Energy-Climate Plan. Secondly, the 2020 situation is again more than critical. In accordance with the new Royal Decree of May 2019, the four federations introduced a five-year recognition procedure that would allow them to apply for annual funding for 2020 after the recognition. While the administrative decision on their recognition should have been given no later than 16 May - we are on 30 June - they are still waiting for an answer. However, without a recognition decision, the four federations will not be able to apply for subsidies for 2020 before the deadline of 1 September, implying a loss of 100% of their federal funding for 2020 and administrative insecurity for the following years. Minister, how do you explain that federations are forced to carry out their missions without the financial support expected since 2019? Has partial compensation been provided for 2019? What is the status of the process of recognition of federations to date? Will they be recognized in time to apply for 2020 subsidies on 1 September?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u70	Mr President, I understand the situation very well since I myself have received messages and replied, on several occasions, to the representatives of these associations who have contacted my firm. My wish is to inform you correctly through the answers I will give you. It has never been in my or the government's intentions to permanently abolish the subsidies of the environmental federations whose important work we recognize, particularly at the international meetings you mentioned, Mrs Jadin. However, these subsidies are non-compulsory, which means that the State does not have an obligation on applicants to deliver these subsidies to them. But it is the circumstances and not the will of the State that intervene in this matter. Ms Jadin pointed out that the government situation was going through various stages. These circumstances due to current affairs, budgetary prudence and the budget available only in provisional twelfths resulted in the impossibility of allocating subsidies in 2019. This is not at all a measure taken against these federations! It's a precautionary measure. This was explained in particular to the Director of Inter-Environnement Wallonie, the only organization to have asked to be received in the interview. The Director fully understood the situation, given her past experience in a ministerial office. I don't remember his name, but I still remember our interview. With regard to subsidies for the year 2020, before they are paid to the federations, they must be recognised. A call for applications has therefore been launched, but given current affairs and the fact that recognition will apply for a period of five years, it does not appear that a government in day-to-day affairs can make such a decision for the future. Depending on the change in the situation, in the coming days nothing is impossible, but for the moment we cannot make such a decision. Mrs Creemers, the environmental organisations are very well aware of what is happening. Moreover, it is not customary to communicate about a grant if it is not compulsory, such as contributions to international organisations. No compensation is planned, given the budgetary caution that has been going on for a long time. There is also no legal basis to do this because there is no KB. Given the budgetary caution of a government in current cases, caution should be exercised on important financial commitments. It is therefore necessary to comply only with the compulsory subsidies, not with those which currently have no legal basis to obtain them, as for internationally recognised organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u71	Minister, thank you for these answers. I understand the difficulty of the department which cannot pay these subsidies at the moment, since it is not a compulsory expenditure with a legal basis, but a recurrent expenditure – despite everything. I think it was a funding that federations could rely on. I imagine this poses some organizational problems in their accounting. I wonder what the other possibilities might be. For the 2019 subside, since things are what they are at the federal level, could retroactive compensation ever be considered, as long as we could imagine having a government that could then put things in order? Or will it really be lost funds for 2019 and 2020? Knowing that this could also pose problems of accreditation for these federations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I am very puzzled, astonished and rather unhappy. With regard to the year 2019 first, environmental NGOs have done the work for which they are subsidized, and you have benefited from it. The Royal Grant Order specifically recognizes that environmental NGOs play a crucial role in federal policies that promote sustainable development. The missions of these organisations are research, information, awareness-raising and advice on climate issues. I believe that we cannot say today that climate is not a priority This is probably the first priority we face. This requires that these platforms have the tools to carry out their missions. In addition, we know that the administration has made recommendations to you to find ways to address the shortfall in subsidies for 2019. I don't think your firm has answered that so far. It did not require 100% of the 2019 subsidy, but to find solutions. For 2020, May 16 was the date of a five-year recognition. It was not yet a financial commitment. On the other hand, not giving them federal recognition clearly commits the next government. This leads to a legal vacuum against which the next government, which we hope to see completed as soon as possible – I think that is also your case – will be in difficulty, because we will not have followed administratively what is provided for by the new royal decree. In any case, it was the legal opinions that circulated and on the basis of which we were able to reflect on this dossier. We place these structures in an impossible situation, because they will continue the work for which they are recognized without any support. Politically, it is very particular that our government does not recognize their expertise and value it through a somewhat creative solution. We know that the circumstances are complicated and that Mr. De Croo replied that by September at the latest, he would send an opinion to Enabel or other organisations benefiting from multi-annual grants. In short, we need to hear that a solution will be found so that these actors can benefit from money again this year. It is not possible to let them work under such conditions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u73	Madam Minister, I can only share the indignation of my colleague. The royal decision on which our umbrella organisations continued to work dates from 12 May 2019. That's when the government was in on-going business, isn't it? Then why do you instruct them to make both the 2019 grant files and the recognition files that had to be submitted by last month at the latest? It'll take them all time and work. I find it difficult to understand that they have remained in the dark for so long and that this is only now coming to light. The government is in ongoing business, but Parliament is not. If the problem was so great, why couldn't we work around it in Parliament? The four umbrella organisations in the field of the environment can provide a great deal of input. I don't understand why this is coming up now, why they still don't know anything about 2019 and still don't know if they'll be recognised for the next five years. I can't reach that, especially in these times of climate change. That is why I can only advocate an amendment to that regulation. The umbrella organisations do not know whether they will be recognised and whether or not they will have to submit a dossier by 1 September. That's not how they work, is it? It concerns at least one full-time staff member and means of operation per umbrella organisation. These organisations cannot work in this way and we cannot therefore ask them for advice. I therefore call for openness with regard to umbrella organisations and an amendment to the regulation so that they can submit applications in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u74	Madam Minister, my question concerns a dossier which we already know very well. On 13 June, more than two weeks ago, the public consultation was closed on a proposal for geological or underground final disposal of highly radioactive waste on Belgian territory. The proposal, together with an accompanying environmental impact report, goes through a legal procedure requiring the advice of several official bodies in addition to the consultation of the public. In the meantime, it became known that the Walloon Region's opinion is very critical and talks about significant shortcomings. The Walloon Region asks NIRAS to investigate alternatives. The Brussels-Capital Region has also rejected the plans. Can you explain the content of the opinions of the Walloon Region, the Brussels-Capital Region and also the Flemish Region? What other official bodies have given advice? What are the most important comments here? What are the results of the public consultation? What are the next steps in the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u75	Madam Secretary, the public inquiry is indeed over. On his website NIRAS says that the search resulted in a lot of valuable reactions. Can you clarify how many answers were finally received? In the meantime, did all the Regions give any advice? What is the content of their opinion in general? What is the timeline of the further procedure and when will NIRAS deliver its policy proposal to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u76	Mr President, I have a very comprehensive answer. Firstly, the overall figures relating to the reactions of the public. There were many comments and responses to the consultation closed at midnight on 13 June 2020. There were 12.160 responses from Belgium, of which 12.075 via the dedicated website and 85 by post from municipalities, private individuals, organisations and so on. There were 9.397 responses from abroad, of which 9.244 via the dedicated website and 154 by post, SEA contacts abroad, private individuals, various agencies, organisations etc. Finally, there was a petition with about 40,000 signatories, mainly from Germany and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. That petition does not concern the subject matter of the draft plan. It calls for the closure of the Objective and Tihange reactors as soon as possible, the extension of the consultation beyond the duration of the lockdown and its opening to citizens, local authorities and all the other institutions of the neighbouring countries concerned. Figures are likely to evolve somewhat, in particular because letters with a postmark prior to the conclusion of the consultation will still be sent to NIRAS. As regards the opinions of the Regions, the governments of the Walloon Region, the Brussels-Capital Region and the Flemish Region make a series of joint observations in their opinions. According to NIRAS, it seems that, among other things, the following comments should be highlighted. The three Regions point to the generic and conceptual nature of the documents submitted by NIRAS and consider that NIRAS makes it difficult to provide a detailed opinion on all the points of the draft plan and the environmental impact report for the long-term management of conditioned high-radioactive and/or long-lived waste prepared by NIRAS. The Regions also share the desire to continue looking for alternative solutions or variants on the geological storage system. The governments of the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region recommend the possibility of long-term but temporary storage below the surface. Moreover, the Regions share the desire to ensure a certain degree of flexibility, and thus the reversibility of the management solution, so that future generations can decide to recover buried waste. More specifically, it should be noted that in the Walloon Region's opinion there is concern about ensuring the participation of the defederalised entities and the municipalities in the adoption of national policies. As regards the opinion of the Brussels-Capital Region, it should be noted that there is concern about the involvement of the Region in the whole decision-making process. I also note that the Region stresses that, in the long term, a decision should be taken on the long-term management of conditioned high-radioactive and/or long-lived waste, but that it considers that this decision can be taken only with guarantees of reversibility. The Brussels-Capital Region also points out the need to ensure that the facilities provided by waste producers to finance the disposal of high-radioactive and/or long-lived waste are available and sufficient to avoid the transfer of these financial burdens to governments and future generations. The Flemish Region has made a very technical analysis of the documents submitted by NIRAS and, for example, examines the robustness of the plan or the effects of the plan on the hydrogeological level. The Flemish Region considers that taking a decision in favour of a storage solution cannot exclude the need to be flexible and take into account future developments and innovations. Many of the concerns expressed by the Regions in their opinions, and in particular concerns related to the reversibility modality, the consultation mode of all stakeholders and the issues related to the choice of a site, will be addressed by NIRAS at a later stage of defining national policies for the long-term management of high-radioactive and/or long-lived waste. Finally, as regards the other official bodies, at the end of the consultation, i.e. on 13 June 2020, NIRAS had the official opinions of the regional governments, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the SEA Advisory Committee on the procedure for assessing the impact of plans and programmes that could have a significant impact on the environment and on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The SEA Advisory Committee shall assess the quality and completeness of the draft environmental impact report and its legibility as responsible for the assessment procedure pursuant to the law of 13 February 2006. The Committee notes that its comments on the draft Register were taken into account. It notes that the draft report was amended in view of the generic and conceptual nature of the draft plan. It provides an overview of the environmental impacts to be taken into account in the future. The opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development is divided. Some members consider that a decision of principle in favour of geological disposal should be taken without delay, while some members claim that this decision is nevertheless premature and regret the lack of studies on other options. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency considers that geological disposal, and in particular disposal in galleries or deep holes, is the safest long-term management option for conditioned radioactive and/or long-lived waste. In addition, the FANC considers that storage, regardless of its variant, is a burden and a risk to future generations. Some of these opinions highlight the potential benefits of a shared storage solution with one or more other countries. As far as further steps are concerned, all these reactions are currently being analysed by NIRAS, with a view to drawing up the legally foreseen statement, as well as a long-term policy proposal for the management of highly radioactive and/or long-lived waste, possibly adapted on the basis of these reactions. Afterwards, NIRAS will submit a final policy proposal to its supervisory authority, the federal ministers responsible for Economics and Energy. That'll be something for September, I think. We'll see if I'm still gonna be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u77	Madam Minister, of course the NIRAS proposal has a generic conceptual character. Above all, I remember the word 'flexibleness' through the advice of the regional governments. However, it is important that the FANC indicates this was already the case earlier that underground geological storage is the safest option for shared storage with other countries. Of course, our group is not a specialist, but we believe that the above is the most logical solution. I know there are other opinions here in the gremium, but above ground storage seems to be a little more risky for the FANC in the long term. Of course, it is easy to say that we should be open to innovation and flexibility. However, we must move forward in the dossier. You stated that there will be a final policy proposal in September 2020. I am very curious to hear that proposal. We shall, of course, discuss this further here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55007138C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u80	Mr Cogolati, in accordance with Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Standing Technical Committee, the Standing Technical Committee shall meet at least twice a year. Extraordinary meetings may be held if the circumstances so require and the opinions of the Standing Technical Committee shall be drawn up for the attention of the Board of Directors of ONDRAF, while failing to bind the latter as specified in Article 13, §5, of the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 which lays down the tasks and procedures for the operation of ONDRAF. The Regulation does not provide for a copy of its opinions to be sent to the ONDRAF supervisory authority and for a copy of its opinions, a request should be made to the organisation itself or to producers that are part of that committee, in accordance with the applicable legislation on administrative transparency. At the extraordinary meeting of the Standing Technical Committee on 8 February 2018, the members of the Standing Technical Committee delivered a positive opinion on "the proposal for elements for the Royal Decree laying down the process for approving the national policy on the long-term management of high-level and/or long-lived waste and introducing the first part of this policy". There is no scientific and/or technical committee in all respects comparable to those you quote. Article 13(4) of the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 provides that "the Board of Directors shall draw up opinions from the competent scientific and industrial circles which may inform it in the performance of its task". In this context, it states that "it shall constitute a standing technical committee composed of representatives of the producers of radioactive waste". This committee allows all producers of radioactive waste, as well as the representatives of the Belgian State, in its capacity as financial responsible for nuclear liabilities, to express their views and deliver an opinion on a series of subjects relating to the management of radioactive waste. The establishment of this committee by the King – this consultation is therefore regulated – ensures a consultation between the sector and the operators concerned prior to the decisions taken by the ONDRAF Board of Directors and thus contributes to a better understanding of the technical issues. This can be particularly valuable in a technical area such as radioactive waste management. Consultation with producers also gives priority to solutions that take full account of the constraints and concerns of all stakeholders, which is particularly useful since the regulation provides for the conclusion of agreements between ONDRAF and radioactive waste producers. This does not in any way call into question the principle that it is for the Board of Directors to exercise its discretion and to take and justify its decisions in an impartial and independent manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u81	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I must admit that I am still surprised at the presence of this committee, which, by its very nature, is not impartial, since it directly represents nuclear operators and producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u82	He's not the one who decides. It's the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u83	It is he who advises directly and who is organically integrated in the ONDRAF organization chart, which is for example not the case with ANDRA in France where there is an additional independent committee, which advises directly the National Assembly and the Ministry of Energy. It would be interesting to examine these European examples in order to be able to move towards a fully independent institution in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hanus's 55007243 will be converted into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u85	Madam Minister, I should like to begin by congratulating Belgium on being the fourth country worldwide on offshore wind energy. That's how it was announced yesterday. The construction of wind turbines on land is becoming a bit more difficult, because there is a debate before the European Court of Justice on the Flemish standards on drop shadow, noise and safety. As far as offshore wind turbines are concerned, I hope that my question will continue smoothly. In connection with the Offshore Task Force, on 11 February 2020, you stated that public procurement would be launched for an external coordination mission and a certification mission. Once the external coordinator has been appointed, the task force will be expanded with technical experts to provide the external coordinator with all the existing studies and data for gap analysis as soon as possible. Afterwards, the long-awaited studies can start in the Princess Elisabeth zone on the west coast. On behalf of the ENOVER Working Group, the Task Force also organises interim consultations with the regional administrations and Cabinets in the framework of the permits to encourage the progress of the onshore grid enhancement projects. Through the WinMon.be monitoring programme, the offshore sector itself evaluated the environmental impact on the marine environment of both the construction and operation phases of Belgian offshore wind farms over the past ten years. During the Global Wind Day of 15 June, the scientific partners and the Belgian Offshore Platform summarised what they have learned so far about the environmental impacts of offshore wind farms in the short and long term. These effects appear to be very diverse. The nuanced insights make it possible to further reduce the undesirable effects and promote the well-considered effects towards maximum environmentally friendly development of offshore wind farms. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play on the Natura 2000 surveys? Have the studies soil, wind, water for the new development area Princess Elisabeth started? To what extent can the shared and pampered insights on the environmental impact of offshore turbines on the marine environment influence and accelerate the studies? What is the state of play on the various aspects of the Offshore Task Force?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u86	Mr Ravyts, the procurement process with consultation procedure for the external coordinator for the preliminary studies on soil, wind and water is in its final phase. The external coordinator will assist AD Energy in the implementation of the data tap analysis and in the procurement of the companies that will carry out the desktop studies and field studies. For study questions, I invite you to contact the Minister responsible, Mr De Backer, who will follow the environmental studies in the Belgian North Sea. For your second question, too, you must contact Mr De Backer. As far as your third question is concerned, I can tell you that the next meeting of the Offshore Task Force is scheduled for early July. Agreements will be made there to ensure that existing planning is respected. The Task Force shall follow up several topics, including the Natura 2000 studies, the necessary preliminary studies with a focus on the recruitment of the external coordinator and the launch of the preliminary studies, the development of the onshore and offshore grid MOG Ventilus and Boucle-du-Hanaut and the development of the regulatory framework for the future tender.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u87	Madam Secretary, I will certainly address the questions to Minister De Backer. I conclude that the preliminary studies have not yet begun. Plans will be agreed at the beginning of July 2020. This will be exciting in the light of the core exit in 2025. We will also come back to this in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament 55007268C by Mrs Dierick is converted into a written question, as is Question No 5, by Mrs Dierick. 55007287C by Mr Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u89	Mr President, it is the day of written questions and answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u90	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u91	This allows us to move forward, since there are still 38 points on the agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55007292C is also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u93	Madam Minister, I am trying to follow up on the consequences of the judgment of 5 March 2020 which destroyed the law of 28 June 2015 on the extension of lifespan. The new fact is that on 19 June the Federal Council of Ministers approved your proposal to launch a public contract to carry out the necessary environmental assessments. The contract will be awarded through a negotiated procedure without prior publication, with consultation of a specific economic operator, as the service provider must have a recognition. My questions on this are as follows. What steps has the coordinating administration, the Energy DG, taken in this file since the judgment? It's almost four months later now. There's not that much time left, we know that. Is there any clarity as to the procedures necessary, given the current and relevant European directives? I remember you saying that there was a problem with the law of 6 December 2018, for which a royal decree has recently appeared on the federal environmental impact assessments required for Class 1 establishments, which are ionizing radiation. You said there were problems with this procedure. Finally, on 15 April, you could not give a precise timetable for this dossier. Can you do this already?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u94	Mr Ravyts, if I may, I will reply this time in French, because I have not received a translated version. If I have to wait until I find the words in Dutch, we will still be here tomorrow! I say it with humor. Besides, I know this file very well. By responding slowly, I will provide a more personal and spontaneous response. As you know, on March 5, a few weeks ago, the Constitutional Court concluded that the law of June 28, 2015, which ordered the extension of Doel 1 and 2 until 2025, had been annulled. It clarified the European Court of Justice's judgment by deciding to maintain the effects of the annulled law, as long as it can be adapted and by requesting an appropriate environmental impact assessment, including public participation and cross-border consultation by 31 December 2022 at the latest. So we don't have much time, even if we still have a lot of time left. We did not stop working the day after the stoppage. In addition, we had already prepared the ground before. I would like to emphasize this landmark date of December 31, 2022, as it serves as the ultimate reference from which we have developed a retro-calendar. Between now and that date, a new bill will have to be discussed and voted on in the House. In addition, a public consultation will have to be organised before the proper parliamentary presentation of the text. All these steps, as you know, are not under my direct control either. Therefore, I am not going to commit to a specific timing. However, every decision I make has been matured by my administration, my firm and our advice to ensure maximum legal certainty for this whole process. You should also be aware that the 2006 Act you have addressed does not fully agree with the current legislative framework. I could cut the remaining time before 2022 into three steps. By the end of the year, we will commission environmental impact studies on the postponement of deactivation of Doel 1 and 2 power plants. My administration recently launched the public procurement to find the counterpart of expertise to conduct this study. In 2021, a national and cross-border public consultation will have to take place. In 2022, we will make the new parliamentary journey of the new bill, which will be drawn up on the basis of the above two stages and which will accompany the very complete dossier before Parliament for debate and vote. I stress that under no circumstances will the State assume any responsibility for the work carried out or to be carried out by Electrabel and for its execution. The responsibilities have been extremely well defined throughout the preparation of this procedure. The federal government will only deal with the security of supply component. It is, no more or less, the totality of his charge. The Federal State will carry out the update of the impact assessment and an appropriate assessment relating to the strict legal principle that emerges from the framework decision of the law of 28 June 2015 strictly focused on the postponement of the deactivations of the two plants. It is therefore an economic law that simply expresses the postponement of the deactivation of power stations and the state charge will be limited to this scope. The analysis of the environmental impact of postponing the deactivation of nuclear power plants should be distinguished from that of the operator, from the work on postponing the deactivation of nuclear power plants. Could my administration have handled this environmental impact assessment? The answer to this question can be found in the Notice of Public Procurement Pre-Information prepared by my administration at the end of 2019. I don't know if you remember, but pending the judgment of the Belgian Constitutional Court, I didn't stand by. My administration and I have decided to launch a pre-information market to test the market and evaluate the counterpart. I have therefore made the choice of using duly authorized service providers. In order to give maximum legal certainty to this case, it seemed essential to me that an external provider should be employed with all the authorisations and skills to carry out the assessments of nuclear and non-nuclear environmental effects. My administration prepared the decision of the Council of Ministers of 19 June 2020 by means of a negotiated procedure without prior publication, with consultation of the sole service provider meeting the criteria of independence from the operator and having authorisations. I reformulate: on June 19, I passed on to the government a file that has been accepted and that allows my administration to launch the public procurement that it has prepared. It is a public procurement by negotiated procedure without prior publication with consultation of the sole service provider who meets the criteria of independence from the operator on the market and has the necessary authorisations in accordance with the law. This service provider is not unknown to you since it is the SCK CEN. My administration has begun to work on the preparation of the national and cross-border public consultation to be held in 2021. So I'm already in 2021. We have done the work we have to do at the federal state level as part of the first tranche of my calendar for the year 2020, as the market has been launched. The SCK CEN, once designated, will then do its work, i.e. the assessment of nuclear and non-nuclear environmental effects within the scope of the Act of 28 June 2015. My administration and I are already preparing stage 2021 for the national and cross-border public consultation. I will return to you as long as possible, once the timetable for cross-border and national consultations is set.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for the transparency of this dossier. You explained very comprehensively the decisions taken by the Council of Ministers on 19 June, which is a good thing. You also explained the responsibility of the operator and the federal government. You have also proposed an approach towards the end of 2022, a dossier which will undoubtedly return here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u96	Madam Minister, I am still dubious about the support and the legal basis, since you have already told us that it was not sufficient. So I wonder what has changed because I have the impression that the law of 6 December 2018 has not yet been amended and that it is not enough to launch this market either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament 55007412C and 55007413C by Mr Senesael are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u98	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, following the study to quantify the illegal importation of bushmeat via the Zaventem airport, it became clear that more information was needed on this traffic at European level. This traffic is not limited to Belgium. It includes the possibility, and even almost the certainty, of European networks of exchanges. Trafficking in bushmeat to and within the European Union is a little known aspect of wildlife trafficking. However, it has major negative impacts on animal populations and ecosystem balance, not to mention the potentially extremely damaging effects on human health and animal health. Acting on this theme is therefore part of my commitments to halt the loss of biodiversity. That is why I, together with seven other European Environment Ministers, have called on the Commissioners responsible for food health and safety and the environment and trade to set up an effective monitoring system to control the illegal importation of wild meat at the borders of the European Union. A pilot project has been submitted to the European Commission by the European Parliament. I have already responded positively to Belgium's request for commitment if this project is to be implemented at European level. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora covers bushmeat trafficking when protected. It is put into practice in the context of border controls. I intend to propose to my colleagues in charge of customs and animal health, among other things, the establishment of a national task force. The Commission's mandate would be to prepare our commitments for a sustainable trade in exotic animals, one of which will relate to bushmeat. Among other things, the recommendations of the December 2019 conference "Dead or Alive: Towards a Sustainable Wildlife Trade" will serve as a basis for defining these commitments. Finally, the elements of your resolution will also be discussed by the Task Force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We are pleased to see that you are taking this matter to heart and heart, and that you have mobilised the European level, which is strategic in terms of combating illegal trade. As you pointed out, Belgium can also take initiatives at its level. Indeed, customs are faced with a problem of means. Collaboration between Customs, FASCO and your administration should also be enhanced. In any case, field officers could do more if they had more resources. We look forward to seeing that you are planning a national task force to analyze the levers and also echo what the December 2019 conference was able to put on the table. That's really great news. I realize we're in business, but you're already announcing a task force. Will it be supported by the next government? I imagine that you cannot afford to set up this task force immediately. In any case, we will continue to follow up on this issue. We will be partners since Parliament on these issues. When we have the opportunity to work on it in a parliamentary debate, it may be time to complete this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u100	Mr President, Madam Minister, I asked you a question about this in the previous committee. I know that in the meantime there has been a meeting between AFCN and ONDRAF and Umicore. The purpose of the meeting was to present to Umicore a joint vision note between the two agencies to clean up the site. As you said before, there is a volume that could reach 275,000 m3 of radioactive substances. In this vision note, both ONDRAF and AFCN expressed the need for geological storage of all substances that exceeded 1000 Bq/g. Minister, do you already have an overview of the volume of radioactive substances that exceed 1,000 Bq/g? What action plan do you want to impose on Umicore, in cooperation with the Minister of the Interior for AFCN? Finally, I wonder about the provisions of Umicore. You replied that they had not changed, that they were still 30 million euros for the Olen site. But if it is to store more geologically or to transmit to ONDRAF the burden and authority on the management of the radioactive waste that is present at the Olen site, we realize that the amount of EUR 30 million is completely ridiculous and very clearly insufficient - hence my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u101	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, as set out in the national report on the implementation of Council Directive 2011/70/EURATOM establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste in 2018, the inventory of radiiferous substances at the Umicore site in and around Olen, which should be managed as radioactive waste, could be between 55 000 m3 and about 275 000 m3 distributed as follows. First, the contents of the authorized UMTRAP storage facility, which is 55 000 m3 of non-packaged substances, including radium needles and residues. The total alpha activity, mainly radium 226, is approximately 38,000 GBq, and activity concentration levels vary greatly and can range up to 30 MBq/kg. Second, based on the decisions of the AFCN, a fraction of the content or the total content of the other two Umicore licensed storage facilities. This is the installation of bankloop storage - 30,000 m3 of unpackaged substances from the clean-up of a stream, the Bankloop. The total alpha activity, mainly radium 226, is about 140 GBq. The level of activity is about 3200 Bq/kg. The second storage facility, known as 2016, for a volume of 9,000 m3 of non-packaged substances from remediation activities at the site, with a level of activity concentration of between 500 and 10,000 Bq/kg. Third, depending on the decisions of the AFCN, some or all of the radioactive substances that would be removed in the course of possible future remediation activities at the Umicore site and that could represent a volume of approximately 50,000 m3. Fourth, depending on the decisions of the AFCN, some or all of the radioactive substances that will be removed during the future remediation of the D1 landfill near the Umicore site and that could reach 130,000 m3. AFCN and ONDRAF are currently assessing the fraction of NORM (Naturally Occuring Radiaoctive Materials) to be managed under Directive 2006/21/EC on the extractive industry and the fraction to be managed by ONDRAF as radioactive waste under the abovementioned Directive 2011/70/EURATOM. It is indeed necessary to separate what is radioactive waste and which will come within the scope of responsibility of ONDRAF from what is not within its scope of responsibility and which is part of non-radiological sanitation. As stated in our national programme, as I have already said, a national policy for radioactive waste that will be identified and qualified as such will have to be established. Sanitation was carried out, including Bankloop. Storage facilities for radiiferous materials resulting from these remediation operations have been authorized and installed under the authority of AFCN and Openbare Afvalstoffenmaatschappij (OVAM). Also under the authority of the AFCN and the OVAM, remediation of the D1 landfill and other sites containing radiation pollutants is being prepared. ONDRAF told me that a common vision note for AFCN and ONDRAF had been prepared and approved by both organizations in early January 2020. The aim is to transmit it to Umicore for discussion and implementation. ONDRAF is not yet in a position to estimate the cost of packaging all substances for their long-term management due to major uncertainties about the very fate of existing facilities, the extent of the protection measures that should be implemented and the amount of waste that should be taken over by the body. At the moment, I can't say anything better and I can't do anything but let the independent experts do their work to identify the best management path for these materials that are currently under the close supervision of the AFCN. As soon as I have news, I will come back to you to provide you with an update on the progress of the joint work of ONDRAF and AFCN - and the OVAM's subsidiary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u102	Madam Minister, thank you. Many elements of the answer overlap with the answer given in the previous committee and come back to the inventory report that I was able to consult. So I allowed myself to ask you again because I knew that a meeting had been held between AFCN, ONDRAF and the management of Umicore. I was wondering what decision had been made. Clearly, clarity has not yet been achieved. I will therefore allow myself, in the coming months, to return to you in order to know the decision that has been taken. Frankly, my concern is financial. We know that the amount of the provisions has been 30 million euros for several years. In the case of transmission to ONDRAF 275 000 m3, the above amount is completely insufficient. That's my angle of view in this folder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u103	Minister, this procedure has been discussed in previous committees. Is there anything new in this procedure? What has the Commission initiated? Has the consultation which took place from 15 April to 13 June brought anything into this procedure to meet the Commission's requirements with regard to the Euratom Directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u104	Mr Cogolati, I am going to thank you for the repetitions related to the retroacts and the answers I gave to similar questions in the same committee on 11 February 2020 and 10 June 2020. I would remind you that ONDRAF must propose a national policy for the long-term management of high-activity and/or long-lived radioactive waste, known as B and C. This is a European obligation stemming from Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 transposed into Belgian law by a law of 3 June 2014. To take account of the opinions of the AFCN, our nuclear safety authority in 2011 and 2015, the Ministers of Economy and Energy have asked ONDRAF to draw up a new proposal which, for its first step, is limited to the principle of geological storage on Belgian territory without indication of the host rock at this stage. We requested that this proposal be carried out in stages, with public consultation at each stage. We formulated it in November 2018. The process is divided into different stages and we have passed the first since ONDRAF launched this public consultation, which ended on June 13. The public consultation therefore did not concern a storage facility project but the proposal of a plan, namely a decision in principle on geological storage, which is the solution recommended by many national and international experts from academic circles, nuclear and non-nuclear research centres and specialized institutes. The European Commission informed us that it was of the opinion that Belgium was not complying with the above-mentioned European Directive 2011/70 on the establishment of a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. In this reasoned opinion, the European Commission noted the absence of a clear procedure for defining Belgian policy on the long-term safe management of spent fuel and category B and C radioactive waste or, at the very least, asked Belgium to specify which activities still need to be carried out in order to implement this policy and a precise timetable for its adoption. I responded to this notice by saying that my colleague Peeters and I had asked the organization in November 2018 to submit this national policy proposal to the SEA opinion committee, pursuant to the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes. I'll give you the list of the law. This matter is still being investigated by the European Commission to date and I am, like you, waiting for an answer from it. As always with the European Commission, we have only indicative deadlines or no deadlines at all and we are waiting for the answer. Of course, the European Commission is learning and seeing what we are doing, especially through the press and in contacts between administrations. It has therefore seen well that we have made progress in our national policy by carrying out the first stage which, as I said earlier, will ensure that the ONDRAF will aggregate the thousands of interventions that were received in this public consultation to propose a draft royal decree in September to this government or the next one. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u105	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55007508C and 55007512C by Mrs Van der Straeten will be converted into written questions, as will Question No 5, by Mrs Van der Straeten. Question No 5, by Mr Verduyckt 55007528C by Mrs Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u106	Madam Minister, about a year after its announcement, the PwC study comparing energy prices in Belgium to those in neighbouring countries was delivered. This was done on behalf of the four energy regulators in our country and the study should serve as a basis for the introduction of an energy standard in Belgium. The study, which analyses January 2020 prices, shows that we are paying relatively little for natural gas in Belgium, but the electricity bill for families, SMEs and electro-intensive industries is high. Mr Ravyts mentioned this briefly at the committee meeting on 8 June, but the content of the study was not discussed in detail. Madam Secretary, first of all, what is your position on the results of the study? What are the most important conclusions for you? Secondly, on the basis of the findings in the report, how do you intend to introduce an energy standard? What measures do you think we will have to take to keep our businesses competitive and to give families the necessary purchasing power? Are you thinking specifically of certain federal levers? Thirdly, has the study already been discussed with the Regions? If so, what was the outcome? If not, are you planning to? Fourthly, what will be done with the results of the study? What are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u107	Mr President, my answer was drawn up in French. I hope that's not a problem. Mr Delvaux, at the request of the four Belgian energy regulators (the federal and regional), PwC carried out a comparative study of electricity and natural gas prices which are observed at home and in neighbouring countries (Germany, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom). Last January's energy price analysis concludes in four points. First, low-voltage Belgian households and businesses pay a higher electricity bill than neighbouring countries. Secondly, the electricity bill of non-electro-intensive companies, which are connected on average or high voltage, remains, however, comparable to that observed in the countries concerned. Thirdly, given that neighbouring countries – like the Flemish Region – often grant high reductions to companies engaged in electro-intensive activities, comparable companies based in Brussels and Wallonia obviously suffer from a competitive disadvantage caused by the disparity in aid. Finally, the bill for natural gas is low in Belgium, as consumers pay little public service obligations, overloads and levies compared to electricity consumers. The study of regulators could serve as a basis for the development of measures to assess and ensure a good competitive position of Belgian companies. It's necessary. In this exercise, we must take into account the financial capacity of all consumers as well as the state budget. Similarly, we must distribute in a balanced manner the efforts that must be made between these different poles. It will be up to the future federal government, obviously in consultation with regional governments, to ensure that the competitiveness of our businesses, including electro-intensive companies, is protected. And, if I have advice to give, I invite everyone to pay attention to the definition of electro-intensivity. Indeed, there are different definitions that sometimes lead to medium-sized companies, which are still very energy-intensive – I think, for example, an industrial bakery that employs 50 people and cannot be compared to BASF – being put on the sidelines while we should have a nuanced look to help them in a balanced and targeted way. Therefore, attention must be paid to the definition. The next government – I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss the issue in the negotiations – will have to introduce the necessary reforms to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses by quantifying, in advance, the impact of these reforms on the purchasing power of households and the federal state budget. These three poles must be examined with a lot of nuances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u108	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Of course, we are also looking forward to the government negotiations and the concrete steps that the new government will take in relation to the issue of the energy standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u109	Madam Secretary, in November 2016, the Clean Energy Package was proclaimed at European level. This includes a whole package of new legislation, directives and regulations on energy efficiency and renewable energy and on the functioning of the internal electricity market, security of supply and so on. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is the state of play regarding the federal transposition and implementation of the Clean Energy Package? Will the deadlines be met, for example on the electricity directive to be transposed by the end of December 2020? If not, what is the cause of this? How is cooperation with the CREG and the various regions involved? What is the timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u110	Mr Delvaux, the four regulations, ACER, Governance, Internal Electricity Market and Risk Preparedness, are directly applicable and therefore not subject to transposition. However, I shall see to it that all the obligations imposed directly on Belgium are complied with. This includes an analysis of the compatibility with existing Belgian legislation, such as the network code on electricity, but also the layout of the National Energy and Climate Plan. As regards the EMD and Renewable Energy Directive, the analysis on the identification of the provisions of Directives requiring transposition in Belgium as well as the indication of which national laws or regulations should be amended or introduced for this purpose has been completed. Administrative preparation and consultations with stakeholders are under way. The first concrete proposals and adjustments are currently being prepared and will soon be delivered to me. Certainly the analysis of the EMD Directive is a very extensive exercise that takes a long time. It is a challenge to get the legislative process done on time. Cooperation with the Regions is carried out through specific ENOVER working groups and is essential to achieve coherent Belgian legislation and a clear analysis of the division of competences. The contacts between the CREG and my administration are very regular and constructive. For the time being, my administration is still working on the assumption that timely federal transposition of the Electricity Market and Design and RED II Directives is possible. However, much will become clear after the summer recess. With regard to the Directive 2002/2002 on the revision of the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27EU, the deadline for the transposition of Article 6 on 25 June 2020 was set. This deadline has not been met, as additional measures are needed to achieve the Belgian energy efficiency targets set. At present, political discussions are ongoing between the different entities to determine how these Belgian energy efficiency targets can be met. An estimate is made of the energy savings that can be achieved with the existing federal measures and that can be taken into account in support of regional contributions. The NEKP states: "The federal state will support the Belgian contribution with accompanying measures." At present, regional legislation seems to fully cover the required transpositions of the billing rules under Articles 9 and 11 of Directive 2002/2002. Once the official publications of regional regulations are available, the federal level will be analysed and assessed which federal support is still considered necessary in order to complete the Belgian transposition and ensure the full transposition. Where necessary, the CREG may be mobilised for revision of the tarification regulation and/or the federal level may make adjustments to Article 18 of the Electricity Act. However, this does not appear to be necessary to cover the transposition to date, but needs further analysis. The transposition of Articles 9 and 11 should be notified to the European Commission by 25 October 2020. The last directive of the Clean Energy Package, the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive concerns regional competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic221x.u112	Debates of the European Parliament 55007550C by Mrs Schlitz will be converted into a written question.
