ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are having two topical debates today. The first topical debate concerns the economic consequences of the coronavirus. A topical debate means that, in addition to the questioners, other colleagues may be able to join either the question or the reply, but not both. The Rules of Procedure prescribe this and we follow it strictly, of course. Members should choose whether they wish to speak at the time of the questioning or at the time of the replies. Mrs Dierick is not here; she is not coming. I give the floor to Mr Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, coronavirus affects our countries and our economies a little more and more strongly every day. I would like to ask you about the economic aspect, but it is difficult to ask you about it without saying that we are well aware of the impact on the health of our citizens and its priority. This afternoon we are holding a debate on the economic side, and that is important. For us, the priority is to make every effort to ensure that there is as little damage or contagion as possible to the health of our citizens. The impact on the Belgian economy is growing. The Bureau of the Plan recently explained that the impact of the virus would be greater than SARS in 2003, that the impact on Chinese economic growth had been estimated at a percentage point, that world trade growth had slowed considerably between March 2003 and August 2003, particularly in Asia, and that the impact on the European economy had been negligible at the time. Today, we feel that it will be much more important because China is a crucial link in global supply chains. China's share of industrial production is 28%. Do you already have precise figures on the Belgian economy? The Plan Bureau believes it would be difficult to make a precise estimate, but the sectors most affected appear to be electronics, pharmaceuticals, the automotive industry and the impacts of declining production in China. In view of your skills, what are the accompanying measures you intend to put in place in favour of industries that would be directly affected by coronavirus, but also in favour of workers. For example, many workers return from risk areas, which are not sick but are obliged by their employers to take leave and stay at home. Is it legal? I know I don't. But since you are the minister of guardianship, I would like you to confirm that it is not. The lawyer and the FEB spoke about this by saying that it was a grey area. We believe that it is not, and I would like to receive your confirmation that people cannot be forced to take leave. If it is possible to telework, they can be asked to stay at home. Do you intend to make a communication in this direction because it seems important to me? And even if this is not within your competence and given the urgency of the situation, would measures be put in place for the self-employed. I am thinking of people who are now confined to certain countries without being ill and who will suffer loss of turnover. Is it estimated that there will be to their advantage accompanying measures, reduction of contributions as was the case after the attacks in Zaventem and Brussels. Can you specify a few measures in this regard? Mr President, I would like to turn to a second question relating to the competence of consumer protection. The press talked a lot about it, 700 tourists were confined to a hotel in Tenerife, including 150 Belgians because 5 Italian customers had been diagnosed positive for VOCID-19. What is the framework for these 150 Belgians in the hotel? What is foreseen in terms of compensation for the extended stay? Who will take care of these extra costs? How will logistical support be provided for their return to Belgium? Information is a key element in these times of crisis. How is the information given to them on the spot relayed? These are very important crisis situations. We must be able to communicate as quickly as possible and through the simplest channels. Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u3	Mr President, Minister, as you know, I asked a topical question at the plenary session of 20 February on the economic consequences of the corona virus. Even after that plenary session, we note that more and more Belgian companies are being hampered by the supply of raw materials and semi-finished products from countries currently affected by the coronavirus. It's been a long time since it's just about China, but it's also about countries around the world. For example, the price for containers to Asia has doubled and it is very difficult to export goods. We also note that some companies leave their workers at home preventively today if they have visited a country where the virus was detected. During that plenary session, you indicated that a task force was called together for the first time that week. Following that, I have the following questions. Has any concrete action been taken in this area to reduce the economic damage to our businesses and to employment caused by the corona virus? I would like to get an explanation of the risk analysis that the government must undoubtedly have done in this context. A very important point of this topical debate is how the economic situation can be assessed today. We all see that the trade fairs are getting worse. Some experts speak of a mere failure of the economy, while others say that this might be the spark-off of a new economic crisis. The OECD calls the corona virus a threat to the world economy and warns against a strongly delayed growth. Many countries are taking action on the economic consequences. I am thinking, for example, of the Federal Reserve of the United States, which is now trying to work with a reduction in interest rates. On the one hand, there are the real effects of the corona virus, the pure financial consequences and, on the other hand, the psychological effects. I am referring to consumer confidence and the concern that exists and which can have an impact on the economy. Finally, what is the modus operandi of that task force that was mentioned? How did it come together? What results has he achieved so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday we had a very long debate on the health aspects of coronavirus. In this regard, it is a priority to work with composure and methodology on this aspect, but also to look at the economic aspect, which deserves our full attention. We note that this virus continues to spread and that experts expect a peak – still unknown – in the coming days and weeks. As a result, more and more Belgian companies are struggling to source raw materials from countries currently affected by the virus. Moreover, Belgian companies prefer to leave their employees at home if they have visited a country in which VOCID-19 has been diagnosed. If, of course, this obligation to stay at home seems special with regard to the interpretation of the legislation, perhaps you could remind us of the concrete measures taken to limit the economic damage caused to our businesses and to employment by the coronavirus? Are additional measures planned to support companies and workers affected by the virus? Are government interventions planned for confined persons, who are likely to suffer loss of income? I know in particular that you are working on so-called "classical" measures to be taken in the event of a crisis, such as the postponement of payment of VAT, professional discount or other. What is the situation in terms of technical unemployment? Could you also give us your opinion on the consequences that the coronavirus could have on the Belgian economy? The figures of the Office of the Plan point to a possible decrease in growth of 0.2 to 0.3 per cent, or even 0.5 per cent, which is in line with the global decline announced. What information do you have about this? Finally, what about the 150 Belgians blocked on holiday? In other circumstances, one might find it very nice to be blocked and confined on vacation. Unfortunately, the containment that is theirs is anything but pleasant. There will be consequences, particularly in terms of the cost of extending the stay of these people at their resort. What is planned for this supplement? What about the professional consequences of this forced confinement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u5	Madam Minister, the health aspect has rightly already been discussed extensively in the Committee on Health, but there is also, of course, the socio-economic impact, which was also mentioned yesterday in the explanation given by the Governor of the National Bank in his passage in the Finance Committee. It is, however, a good thing that we have the opportunity to consider this matter with you. I understand from the Conference of Presidents that there may be a wider debate in plenary tomorrow, but I think it is also committee matter, because the challenge is great, including as regards the socio-economic aspect. Colleagues have explained in detail what the impact may be, and this calls for a number of measures. Some measures have already been announced by the Minister of Finance. A number of issues are pressing, such as delays in payments, guarantees for firms with liquidity problems, greater disclosure of a number of support measures such as technical unemployment. I would urge you to come forward with a coherent package of measures in this area. I would also like to speak in favour of cooperation and coherence. I understand that your Flemish colleague, Mr Tugendhat, with whom the lines may be quite short by nature, has started a task force. I have also heard through you that you are in contact with your Brussels colleague. I would like to insist on that. For our companies and consumers, it does not matter whether it is Flemish or Brussels matter or measures and whether Minister Crevits or Minister Muylle is competent; hence my plea for cooperation and coherence. What measures are in the pipeline? How will you achieve and perhaps even strengthen coherence and cooperation? We should think about this more proactively before we are confronted with inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u6	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to know if other Members would like to ask another question. As you know, any Member present may ask a question in the context of a topical debate. Are there any colleagues who would like to ask a question? Mrs Gijbels, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u7	Madam Minister, I understand that I can either ask a question or reply. I'd really like to ask questions because I have some questions. I have some punctual questions and some general questions. Firstly, what about the large trade fairs, such as Batibouw, on which the construction sector is very much counting? That seems to continue, but have measures been taken and which ones? Is there any communication with the stockholders about the state of play? For example, there is also structural consultation with the crisis cell, which seems to be mainly manned by the white sector. In order to ensure that the measures now taken are proportionate, consultation with the various sectors of social interest, not only with doctors, seems to be appropriate, so that a good assessment can also be made. Coherence sometimes seems to be lacking in the way it is communicated. Reports about missing mouth masks, about doctors who are not supported in their basic protective equipment cause uncertainty and can be detrimental to the economy. Can we control this? Can we send this more so that there is clear and unambiguous communication? I believe that this is essential for stability. Has it been considered to what extent we are dependent on products that only China can deliver to key sectors such as pharmacy? I am thinking, for example, of raw materials for pharmaceutical products. Is it appropriate that efforts should always be made to provide a back-up supplier in these crucial sectors? Are there any other crucial sectors where we would be in trouble? Imports are being hampered, but also exports. Especially our companies that export perishable products have been unable to export to China for a long time. As an example, I can give my husband's company, which makes adhesives that have to be transported on dry ice. It has been unable to deliver to China for a long time now, so that products may have to be disposed of soon. Is there a view of this problem? Is this being monitored? How will insurance companies deal with this problem? How should we see the concept of force majeure in this context? Imports slow down, exports slow down, meetings are delayed, projects slow down, people move less. The impact is already felt, but that will increase. Does the federal government consider supporting measures? Which one? Which government centralizes the information for our entrepreneurs, our companies and where? With regard to the economy, the regions are primarily competent. How is communication with the Regions going? Is there any consultation with Europe on how and when internal borders can or will be closed within the Schengen area? How will other countries be informed if this happens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u8	Madam President, Minister, Coronavirus dominates the news, with an epidemic that is growing in our country and globally. Scientists, experts and health professionals are working hard. For this they have our respect and our trust. We are, however, asking ourselves questions about the political approach to the problem. With nine ministers of health, who each have their say, without any hierarchical responsibility: it makes no sense. We also have questions about how to support the care sector, a sector already under enormous pressure as a result of the savings policies of recent years. We have had insufficient answers to these questions, and we will continue to follow the file. But the coronavirus also concerns the economic world and the stock market. In this context, some economists, such as Geert Noels, have already called for attention, not to take too radical measures that would damage the economy too much. For PTB, decisions to be taken in the coming weeks and months to combat coronavirus must be primarily aimed at protecting the health of patients and workers to the maximum extent possible. This is the first criterion to judge the necessity and relevance of the measures to be taken. In this committee, therefore, it is essential to defend this principle. A central question is who will pay for the consequences of the epidemic. In this context, health is an absolute right that prevails over the interests of large shareholders. For example, if workers are to stay at home as a preventive measure, they should not be obliged to take leave, but should enjoy guaranteed income, with the possibility of being placed on sick leave. In France, workers have the right to stay at home if they feel there is a danger at work. That's what we call the right of withdrawal. This provision allows workers not to fear being laid off. For example, the Louvre Museum has been closed because the workers fear coronavirus. Is it not an idea to apply this right of withdrawal in Belgium too? Otherwise, we know very well the very unstable nature of the stock exchanges, Madam Minister. But in some economic newspapers, it is said that the current epidemic could be a trigger for a crisis like in 1973 with the oil shock. Do you have any evidence or analysis that supports or refutes this statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many questions and comments. I will try to answer everything as well and in detail as possible. I shall begin with the questions on consumer protection. Afterwards, questions about the economy, labour and work and the measures taken in this area will also be discussed. In connection with the coronavirus, the FPS Economy has informed travellers about their rights. That information has been online since Friday 28 February. You can find them coordinated and clustered on the website info-coronavirus.be, but also on the website of the FPS Economy. Consultations were held with the sector and ABTO on the subject. Through the FPS Foreign Affairs Office, our diplomatic posts were informed, so that this information can be used when answering questions from travelers abroad. In all cases, the traveller has a general right to cancel a booked package trip before departure. If he can rely on unavoidable and exceptional circumstances, he will not have to pay compensation. On the basis of the different scenarios in which passengers may find themselves, FAQs on their rights were also developed. Based on the questions that came into the FPS Economy and the sector itself, the FAQs have been adapted on the website. It is a continuous updating process. As far as cover for travel assistance insurance is concerned, the conditions in the policies may vary considerably. A traveler affected by the coronavirus during his journey or by measures resulting from it, looks best at the general conditions of his insurance and can best contact the insurance intermediary or the insurer. The same applies to cancellation insurance. I really want to get a look at that. Last week I asked Assuralia what the most common terms and conditions or assumptions are in the general or sometimes special terms and conditions of the policies, because I think it is important to make a proper listing of them and to provide information about them on the website, so that people know where they stand. There are cancellation insurance, omnium insurance and travel assistance insurance for Audi A6s which also include travel assistance for persons. There are many types of insurance that are eligible. We want more information on this from Assuralia. We are looking at and mapping that information together with the FPS Economy. I hope to be able to provide consumers with correct information on this as soon as possible. With regard to Mr Vanden Burre's specific question on travellers in Tenerife and on the basis of the information I have received from Foreign Affairs, I can inform you that a total of 163 travellers have been quarantined. This is a precautionary measure taken by the Spanish authorities. Fifteen travellers have already been able to leave the hotel. We hope that other travellers will also be able to do so soon. The financial situation of travellers to Tenerife varies depending on whether they have booked a package trip or not. If the flight takes place but the traveller cannot take it because of measures taken by the authorities, such as quarantine in a hotel, the airline is not legally obliged to reimburse him or to offer him another flight. For costs not covered by an airline, travellers will in principle have to bear their own costs, as the local, national, European government does not intervene, for example for quarantine or repatriation. If necessary, the traveller may apply to his or her travel insurance company. If, due to unavoidable and exceptional circumstances such as the coronavirus, the traveller cannot return at the end of his package trip and his stay must be extended, the tour operator is already required to cover the costs for each traveller concerned and for a maximum of three additional nights in the accommodation provided or equivalent. A tour operator also has an obligation to provide travellers with information on medical services, local authorities and consular assistance, as well as to assist them in communicating and finding other travel arrangements. If the traveller is blocked for more than three days, he or she will in principle have to bear the additional costs himself, in so far as the local, national, European government does not intervene, for example for quarantine or repatriation. In this case, the traveller must contact his or her travel organiser, who may, for commercial reasons, propose an intervention. Travellers may also contact their travel insurer if necessary. It's like this on the website, but this is what I have to say. That is also the legislation today. In the meantime, I have contacted the sector because it is a very exceptional situation. Most people staying in Tenerife today have booked a package trip through one tour operator. That tour operator is doing everything in his power today, including commercially, to make sure those people get home. As far as costs are concerned, I cannot make any promises about this today, but the talks are in full swing. We were assured that we are looking for solutions for those people. This is important information. Cooperation with the Spanish authorities has been very difficult. That may be interesting for the debate and for my foreign colleague. It was very difficult to get information. We are all personally contacted by people from the hotels, who reported to us that they had no information whatsoever. The Spanish authorities have waited a long time. They didn't want to release the information about who stayed at the hotel for all kinds of reasons, not even to the people of the consulate. We had to reconstruct through internal information who was all there and give them the information. We have already had contact with the people who are still staying there, but I would like to say that cooperation with the Spanish authorities was not clear. However, it is up to my Foreign Minister to go further into this. The SPF Economy made a first exploratory analysis of the impact on the Belgian economy last weekend. The summary of this analysis is also available on the website. This study was updated yesterday. Madam President, I will give you these analyses in French and Dutch so that you can distribute them to the committee. It is important that the FPS Economy gives the impact analysis very briefly each time. I think it is very important to have all this up-to-date information quickly. This analysis explicitly argues that the impact of this virus will be felt in Belgium by the significant openness and high degree of interconnection of our country with the world economy. Direct trade with China is affected and an indirect impact also appears in trade with our neighbouring countries. Let us not forget that the neighbouring countries are Belgium's most important trading partners. The SPF analysis concludes that it is still too early to measure the negative impact of the Coronavirus epidemic on the global economy and the Belgian economy. Of course, this will depend on the degree of circulation of the coronavirus and the proportion in which the coronavirus will continue to spread in Europe and Belgium. The note outlines the situation of the Belgian economy. It also clearly reflects our relationship with China and imports and exports. The different sectors are well described. You can see, for example, that trade with Italy is a multiple of trade with China. In the note you will find the impact and the different sectors. You will also find the forecasts of the World Bank and the OECD, which goes furthest and talks about 0.5% worldwide. For the euro area, the adjustment of the growth forecast is today about 0.2 %. You will find all this in yesterday's note. We want to keep this up-to-date with the FPS Economy, based on information from different sectors. I would also like to make an appointment to deliver this to the committee as soon as there is a new report, so that the committee members have the most recent report and the most recent analysis. There are a lot of questions about the task forces. A task force Coronavirus has been set up by the FPS Economy on behalf of Mr Ducarme and myself. The original assignment two weeks ago was to collect data and information on the consequences of the coronavirus, to identify difficulties encountered by our companies in collaboration with the various professional organisations and to place all that information on the website. The task force met for the first time on 17 February. Who's in there? Many professional organisations: VBO, Agoria, Fevia, Boerenbond, UNIZO, UCM, NSZ, Voka and VLAIO. Workers' organisations will also be invited. This week there was also an internal task force from the administration of the government. There will also be a task force with externals this week. The link with information is kept very open. If necessary, this task force can meet quickly. You have also been informed in the press by Mrs De Block yesterday that the Prime Minister took the initiative to bring the nuclear cabinet together. That happened on Sunday. The question of coordinating this was very clearly addressed, also by myself. Mr Calvo has rightly said so. I, too, saw all kinds of well-intentioned initiatives emerge this weekend: a task force in Flanders, a crisis manager in Wallonia... However, coordination is of the utmost importance. On Monday afternoon, we convened an informal Inter-Ministerial Conference with all the federal and regional ministers of Work and Economy. Very clear agreements were made on four domains. Firstly, the regions had a lot of questions about measures relating to temporary and economic unemployment or companies that want to keep their employees at home. I'll be right back. We tried to answer all these questions as best we could. Today, this information is already largely available at the FPS Economy and on the website of the FPS Work, each time with a link to info-coronavirus.be. The same information will also be disseminated through regional websites. The questions are updated daily. As soon as new questions come in, the list will be supplemented. The FPS Economy takes responsibility for coordination. A second important knot that we had to cut through and discussed for a long time was: do we choose one major task force or not? I also think it is very important for the regions to be able to pursue their own policies and take their own measures within the framework of their powers. Here too, however, coordination is of the utmost importance. That is why we have agreed that any information arising from the regional and federal task forces should be transferred to the FPS Economy. Its chairman, Mr Regis Massant, will coordinate with his services. That means that all the information that comes in to the regional and federal task forces goes to the FPS Economy. Everyone has all the information at all times and there are no malfunctions in the information and coordination. So we work from one central point at the FPS Economy for the coordination and exchange of information. On Monday we also decided to list all the federal and regional measures taken to date, explaining each measure: temporary unemployment, force majeure, economic unemployment, homework, etc. The regions did the same with their measures, including the bridging appropriations. In short, it was about the traditional package of measures that could be taken by the regions. Minister Ducarme has four measures ready for the self-employed, but I suspect he will explain them tomorrow. He announced that he would like to go to the Council of Ministers on Friday. This afternoon, together with all the federal colleagues, we are very important to see what additional measures we can take, in addition to those we have already taken. I am thinking, for example, of the framework on occasional homework. It is the intention that we should certainly list the traditional package that has already been used in the past and see what is needed in legislation, because we are in current affairs today, which is not always obvious. For some measures we will also need the support of Parliament. The budgetary impact of the measures does not seem to me to be insignificant either. We're doing that exercise today at the federal level. Tomorrow, we will meet interfacially, with the regions, which are making the same exercise. They shall also consider what additional measures they may take. Tomorrow afternoon we are going to put these two exercises together and the intention is that, on the basis of these exercises, additional measures can be taken on Friday, if necessary, at the federal and regional Councils of Ministers. So this week we are fully preparing to see what can and cannot be done. We have also decided, if necessary, to sit together constantly. As you have probably already heard from the press today, a consultation committee with Health, Work and Economics Ministers has been held again this morning. Apart from the IMCs and the coordination of task forces, the intention is to organise a consultation committee every Wednesday morning with the ministers mentioned, and also to present a state of affairs every Friday at the Federal Council of Ministers, through an extensive core. There is therefore a constant interaction between the Consultative Committee and the Government to see what action we should take. Let me come back to the measures relating to temporary unemployment and force majeure. Let me be quite clear, however, that this is a matter of force majeure, an unexpected event created outside the company's control. Economic unemployment is another aspect and is mainly linked to a lack of work, companies in difficulty and its economic consequences. We must not forget that there are consequences for the workers as well. They fall back to 65% of their wages, i.e. a capped gross wage of EUR 2,700. This is like entering unemployment from day one. Its application therefore represents a significant reduction in the income of employees. If economic unemployment is invoked, there is also a difference between workers and servants. For workers, it can happen fairly smoothly. One falls back to 65% of the wage, but from the sectors there can be a surcharge of 2 euros per day. For servants this is 5 euros per day or a total of 120 to 150 euros. For servants, the condition is also that there must be a 10% reduction in turnover or that such a decrease is to be expected. Those are the current rules. So far, there haven't been a lot of requests. There are less than 10 companies that have applied for economic unemployment, but we clearly feel that the applications will come this week and next week. The companies are looking at it now. They often face force majeure, but there is also an economic aspect. Many companies are now looking at how they may or may not invoke economic unemployment and whether it will be invoked by force majeure. We also feel this very clearly from the information and the questions that come into the RVA. I hope to be able to give an update on this in the near future. The questions of access to these systems will be detailed in the next few days and weeks. Today, these are the broadest systems, in terms of the contribution of the government in this area. I have already partially answered the questions about communication. We follow them very closely through the Consultation Committee. There were also questions about the crisis cell. It doesn't really come into effect until phase three. Today we are not in phase 3. I'm guessing Mr. De Block explained that very well yesterday. The Crisis Centre starts to play its role from phase 3 and then takes over part of the coordination, but we are doing everything we can today not to get into phase 3 and keep Belgium in phase 2. The discussion on the masks was discussed in detail this morning. Together with Mr De Block and the regions, we are looking at whether there are companies that could offer a solution. The aim is to work as a priority for the care providers, the people who are in the first line. We want to give them a guarantee that there is sufficient safety equipment in the hospitals. As far as the European part is concerned, last Thursday there was a meeting with Commissioner Breton where Corona was also on the agenda. A European task force has also been set up over the weekend. At that meeting it was decided to ensure a proper exchange of information. Today, my administration has received a question from the European Commission to fill out a kind of sheet by next week to properly describe the situation. For this we also have contacts with the sectors within the Task Force. Tomorrow there will be new contacts to look at the impact. The intention is to have European consultations again next week in which additional measures can be taken at European level. Several countries, with Italy in the lead, start from three questions. The first is whether there are opportunities under the regional funds. The second question is whether ad hoc decisions can be taken to support certain countries or sectors at European level. The third question is whether budgetary flexibility is possible. That is a very clear question from the Italians who would like to know whether there are opportunities in this area. We expect to hear what is possible at European level in terms of cooperation at the earliest beginning of next week. I have answered most of the questions. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer, which is quite rightly extended, given the problem. I would also like to thank you for the documentation you have provided us with. We have copied it and distributed it around, so that the Members present have already received a copy. I now give the floor to the members of the committee for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response in view of the situation and the state of affairs that can be done so far. I am not going to go back to all the points. We will try to analyse the issue in detail. Thank you for the notes and the information. I obviously have a number of things to remember. I have two or three messages to put in my line. From the contacts we have, it appears that communication is a key point. I think you know that, and I'm breaking into an open door, but it's so important. Since Belgium is Belgium, it has several levels of power. Coordination is fundamental. You and my colleague Calvo have repeated this, and that is very good. On the ground, you know what it is, especially in small economic structures such as SMEs that are the nose on the handlebars and do not always know where to go for information, or which site to consult. Information is a key point in this first phase of crisis. I agree with you that in a second stage, the level of crisis and urgency is likely to increase further. Information must remain the top priority at this stage, in the very short term. Regarding the workers, you have provided a series of questions and answers updated every day via the site. It is really important to clarify things. You said it. In my question, I was talking about forcing workers to take leave, which is not possible. This should be clarified, as cases have occurred in recent weeks. It may indeed be necessary to take measures around telework, as you said. These things are important, but not all trades can be practiced at home. Of course, we must remain realistic. It is important that workers are aware of their rights, but also of what is feasible or not in such urgent circumstances. It is important that you have made that clear: workers cannot be forced to take leave unless they are ill, but that is something else. I talked about those who were confined but were not sick or affected by the virus. The last point I wanted to address at this stage is the following. We will, of course, come back to that. These are Belgians stranded abroad. You talked about the situation in Tenerife in particular. Discussions are under way with the tour operator who organized the trip of most of the 165 Belgians on the spot. These situations remain very complex. I hear that after three days, they will probably have to organize themselves, unless the discussions end well. That's very worrying. There's nothing to do. It's a minimum of fourteen days of containment, as you know. These are costs, potentially significant costs. We'll get back to it. Discussions are under way, but it is very important that structural responses are given by tour operators, at the commercial or political level if necessary. We cannot leave these citizens in difficulties there, in Tenerife or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. So the task force has already met a few times. You try to arrive at a mode operandus with the other task forces of the different levels. However, I did not hear much about the concrete results already achieved by the Task Force. You have addressed the economic situation today. You said that it is too early to assess the impact on the economy, but it is believed that this could lead to a new recession. What is your assessment in that respect? How can we respond more specifically to, among other things, consumer concerns and the possible problem of consumer confidence, so that we can overcome a possible new recession as effectively as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u13	Minister, thank you very much for your detailed answer and the seriousness with which you are dealing with this issue. I will not go back to all the specific aspects. I understand that a communication was written and published on the site coronavirus.be and the site of the SPF Economy. I will also see all this. Thank you for sending us the updated report of the FPS Economy. I would also like to thank you for your proactivity in that you will systematically transmit to the members of the committee the updates of this report. It is important for us, too, to have a monitoring and development of the situation. All this is likely to have an impact on our economy and it will need to be measured. We, as parliamentarians, will have to take or support ad hoc measures, regardless of the party in which we sit. Thank you for reminding us also of the existence of the Coronavirus Task Force. As I was telling your colleague yesterday, what matters to me is coordination. You need a captain who gives the information in real time. This information must be understood, known and recognized by all, from Eupen to Ostend and La Louvière. That seems important to me. I think you are right to point that out. As far as measures relating to self-employed persons are concerned, I understand that the reflection is still under way. I will be very attentive and will not fail to return to you. I hear there's no taboo and you're evaluating all the leads, which I think is positive. As far as travellers to Tenerife are concerned, some 163 people have been confined, 15 are already back. I hope that the sector will be reasonable and that the costs will not have to be borne by those people who would suffer the double penalty of this confinement and in addition to having to bear the cost. You reminded us of the law. You said you were negotiating. We hope this will have an impact. I read right now on Air France's website that the airline now allows all of its customers to cancel their flight at no cost due to the VOCID-19. If other airlines could draw on this position, it would be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u14	Madam Minister, in a serious matter like this, in which we can lack uncertainty as a pain in the tooth, it is important to express appreciation from the opposition for the way in which you have explained things today, very comprehensively and with great openness towards Parliament. I would certainly like to explain this with a number of colleagues. Some elements of substance are also positive. For example, I mention your efforts for the people stranded in Tenerife and the fact that with the FPS Economy you are trying to create some order in the inflation of task forces, for which I thank you. I do believe that the federal level can play an important role in this. I also find the way in which you have announced work, with an updated report to Parliament, interesting. Président: Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u15	Madam Minister, I understand from your explanatory statement that the succession of consultations and meetings of the Interministerial Conferences and the Council of Ministers will de facto ensure that some kind of national plan on corona will be ready next Friday. There were consultations, on health and, on the other hand, on the economy and work. Some measures are in the pipeline, including for the self-employed, which I think is a good thing. The intention is to consolidate all this at the Council of Ministers next Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u16	The Departments of Finance and Mobility are also involved. Each department held its Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u17	This means that a global plan will normally be available at the end of this week for the different themes and the different entities. I would therefore recommend that it be presented and understood in this way and that it be made available to the Chamber in this way. You are right to say that there will have to be cooperation in the Chamber on a number of issues, especially in the current period of current cases. That is why I believe that, both for the citizens and for Parliament, the overall plan should be made available, albeit never the final outcome of different consultations. A global plan provides a perfect view of the measures that are in the pipeline. That is why political groups have the opportunity to make additions or suggestions to that plan. That seems to me to be a better way of working than suggesting plic ploc suggestions. Building on an opening that you yourself have made with regard to your reporting, I would like to propose that we also work together on the overall plan in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the constructive opening. Mr Van Lommel, if we say the word'recession' ten times, we will indeed be in recession over time. I do not want to underestimate the problem at all, but I have understood one thing from the contacts I have had over the last few days. Many companies say that people who feel good and are not sick should come to work. That's an important signal. People really want to work on it. I also received a question concerning Batibouw, where I was present yesterday in connection with our brochure on building. It was very quiet there. If we keep repeating warnings, perhaps the public will not visit the fair, while there was no problem yesterday. I understand that French-speaking colleagues are more focused on the French media. But the situation in France, moreover in certain clusters, is really different from that in our country today. The task forces are now in touch with all sectors. They give us constant input on the situation in these sectors. Today's message is that panic must be avoided and that peace and quiet must be ensured, so that work can continue, workers come to work and the economy runs. That is what we are hearing today from both employees and employers. This does not, of course, mean that there can be no problems, such as in the tourism and automotive sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a different debate, but we must also discuss the dependence of the Belgian and, more broadly, the European economy. This was also very clearly addressed at the COMPET Council last week. Mouth masks, for example, are only made today in Japan and China. For certain suitcases or consumables manufactured in Europe, an essential part of Asia is sometimes needed. That makes the economy incredibly dependent. Moreover, according to the principles, just in time and delivery just in time is worked, because strategic stocks cost money. We must therefore have a debate on our economic dependence, on the global economy and on the fact that such crises are rapidly dependent on such an economic model. That's a broader story. I can only say that we are fully using the task forces to keep our finger on the pulse of employees and employers. Tomorrow afternoon I will also have a meeting with the Group of Ten to see what measures we can take. We are particularly insisting on serenity and tranquility, and at the same time we are calling for the necessary preparations to be made, should it prove necessary, to be able to move quickly and to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u19	Madam Secretary, you have not answered a few questions. You say that we should not take the word'recession' in the mouth. I understand that we have to be very careful about this term and that we should not be doing panic football, but that should not prevent us from preparing measures or from underestimating the situation in the future. We must be vigilant, dare to look beyond the situation today and try to think a few steps further, especially in view of the statements made by many authoritative economic specialists in the world today. I fully agree with you that we need to examine the dependence on the economy. This is, of course, the result of past globalisation. It is not easy to deal with this and I share that concern with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u20	I want to bounce back on what you said in relation to the economic system. First, we must respond to the crisis in the short term. With regard to your comment on the resilience of the economy, we must realize that we are in an economy where we are extremely dependent on countries that are on the other side of the world. We are convinced that we need to reflect on these issues because we cannot continue to operate in this "ultra neoliberalised" economy. A resilient economy is an economy that operates more locally, with local entrepreneurs. How is it possible that we have experienced such drifts? We will have to have this debate. On principle, on the vision of society, on the economic vision, we agree with what you have said on the model that will have to be reviewed. We are partners for a local model, anchored at home and not for unbridled competition around the world. If we can take an economic lesson from what is happening, environmentalists are convinced that this is the one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u21	Madam Minister, my question was put some time ago. In the meantime, there was already a decision by the Council of Ministers, including the method of calculating the social tariff. There was also a meeting of the Committee on Energy and Climate Change, where similar questions were put to the Minister for Energy, Mrs Marghem, who stressed in committee that you are the only one competent. Mrs Marghem said she wouldn't answer because you have the authority across the board. It's up to you, Madam Secretary. The social tariff has been frozen twice in previous years as a result of a sharp increase. The previous minister, Mr Peeters, announced that work would be done on a new method of calculation that would be more robust to absorb price shocks and exclude large price fluctuations. That frostbite has been released in the meantime. A further social tariff has been calculated, with a reduction for gas and yet again an increase for electricity. In the meantime, KB's draft calculation methodology was discussed in the Council of Ministers. So my question is a little dated. So let me rephrase my question a little bit. What's the status? What exactly does the new method of calculation mean? I also think it is important to know why the social tariff freeze was dropped. I thought it was perfectly possible to hold the freeze until the new freezing method arrived. What are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u22	Madam Minister, I agree with Mrs van der Straeten's questions. When the questions were submitted, this was topical. At that time, a solution from the Council of Ministers came forward rather quickly. I would have liked to know why the social tariff freeze was released. Why did this new methodology be adopted? I understand that there will be a maximum double ceiling in future. Instead of, as in the past, reviewing the system every six months, it will now be every three months. I would have liked to have a further explanation of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u23	Madam Minister, we had a debate on this issue in December. You said at that time that a new calculation system was being worked on and that it would be submitted to the Council of Ministers at the beginning of January. There was consultation with the various partners and you could come up with a new proposal in January. In the meantime, that has indeed happened. The CREG has indicated that social charges for electricity would increase by 8%. That is probably because social rates can be frozen up to twice in a row, but wouldn't it have been better to wait until the new calculation system could be introduced, especially since you had been in consultation with the different partners on this matter for several weeks? What's the status? What will the new calculation system look like?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u24	Madam Minister, the question I had addressed to Mrs Marghem is also yours, as is the question of my colleague behind me. It may also be outdated as a result of the various events. As has just been said, the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG) has announced an increase of 8% over the period from 1 February to 31 July 2020. For example, electricity prices are rising for families and the most disadvantaged people who benefit from financial assistance sometimes from the CPAS or from an income guarantee for the elderly (GRAPA). Today, 451,000 users benefit from this social rate, one in ten Belgian households! As a result, electricity will rise significantly, with an increase of almost 8%. Minister, it is once again the most fragile who will bear the burden of this decision. An 8% increase in the electricity tariff represents a considerable expenditure for many households. This implies that these families will have to make additional sacrifices and face more difficulties in closing their end of the month. Minister, are you ready to take concrete action? Are you considering a reduction in VAT or a new social tariff freeze to safeguard the purchasing power of households?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u25	Minister, between 2007 and 2018, the overall average price of electricity increased by 31% (excluding inflation). This is mainly due to higher rates for distribution networks. This sharp increase also leads to an increase in energy insecurity. According to FGTB's 2019 socio-economic barometer, this affects 14% of the population with a rate of up to 19.5% in Wallonia alone. The CREG confirmed these figures. It has analysed the weight of electricity and gas bills on the budget of Belgian households and its conclusions are alarming: 40 to 50% of single-parent families are in energy poverty. A total of 400,000 families are affected. What is the government doing? It increases the social rate by 8 per cent. And if the social rate for natural gas has fallen, it doesn't change anything for families who use electricity exclusively to heat up and cook. How many families and individuals do they use the social rate for electricity, and how many for natural gas? Are these figures up or down? You said that there could no longer be a sharp price increase for the beneficiaries of the social tariff thanks to the new gas and electricity law. In your opinion, is an increase of 8%, strong or small? Moreover, on what basis did you act? Why would such an increase occur, when several dormant funds could be used to continue the freezing of the social tariff and electricity? Do the beneficiaries of a social tariff also pay VAT? If so, is it not strange to pay it to the State? Indeed, if you benefit from a social rate, it is precisely because you find yourself in a difficult financial situation. Finally, has the liberalisation of the energy market in Belgium failed, since we must now intervene in the market by introducing social tariffs and freezing them? Would Belgian consumers not be better off if the energy sector were taken over by the State, enabling it to regulate the market effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u26	Today, around 10% of households benefit from the social electricity tariff. The same proportion of households using natural gas as heating sources benefit from the social rate for natural gas. In recent years, the number of entitled persons has increased slightly, by about 0.15 % per year. In concrete figures, there are about 500,000 households for electricity and 300,000 households for natural gas. The CREG calculates the social rates for natural gas and electricity twice a year on the basis of the Ministerial Decision of 30 March 2007. The CREG calculation method combines the lowest commercial tariffs and the lowest distribution network tariff. As of 1 February 2019, there was a significant increase in social rates. It was undone and the price level was frozen at the level of 1 August 2018. The increase in early 2019 was largely due to the price increases in the electricity market and the natural gas market in the months before. Since then, prices have fallen again. In the case of natural gas, there were two successive decreases, so the price level has been lower since 1 August 2019 than that of 1 August 2018. For electricity, market prices have fallen again. The price remains above the level of 1 August 2018. The price evolution led to an average increase of 8% in the social tariff for electricity as of 1 February 2020. For natural gas, the social rate is now 22% lower compared to 1 August 2018. In order to avoid price shocks like those in early 2019, my predecessor instructed the CREG to come up with a new method of calculation. Following consultation with the CREG, it issued an opinion, which was discussed in the government. That opinion led to two draft Ministerial Decision adopted by the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2020. On 19 February there was a Consultative Committee with the regions where there were no questions or comments. At present, both proposals for opinions are before the Council of State. In concrete terms, the draft decisions amend the decisions of 30 March 2007. The changes result in social rates being calculated four times a year instead of semestrial. In addition, ceilings are set to allow the social rate to rise to a maximum, both quarterly and annual. For electricity, the trimesterial ceiling is limited to 10% and on an annual basis to 20%. For natural gas, the quarterly ceiling is limited to 15% and on an annual basis to 25%. If the new calculation system had been applied by 1 February 2020, the ceilings would not have been activated. Hence the freeze of the social tariff for electricity was not continued. That also brings us to the reason why the percentages were chosen. In order to determine the percentages, account should be taken of the new European right to regulated prices. The European Directive 2014/944 on the internal electricity market and the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Federutility case on natural gas prohibit regulated prices that are unlimited in time. The Federal Government and the CREG argue that Belgian social rates are not regulated prices because they are calculated on the basis of market rates. The new method of calculation must therefore take sufficient account of market developments. This is the case with fixed percentages. From the existence of lower ceilings, it could be concluded that our social rates are unlimited regulated prices over time. These would then be incompatible with European law. In accordance with VAT legislation, social gas and electricity tariffs are also subject to a VAT rate of 21 %, since they are the supply of natural gas and electricity. The possibility of introducing another VAT rate for these tariffs is not my responsibility, but that of the Minister of Finance. The new method of calculating these social tariffs does not change the fact that energy insecurity needs to be addressed structurally. The above-mentioned Directive mentions two areas of action in this respect: the provision of support through social security and aid to improve energy efficiency. One of the issues to be considered by the next government will be to find a coherent strategy to further reduce energy insecurity, in collaboration with the Regions, which are responsible for energy efficiency. Finally, the question of whether Belgian consumers would be better off with a state-controlled energy sector is hypothetical. Liberalisation of the energy market is rooted in Community law. It is therefore not clear what the price of gas and electricity would be if they were controlled by the State. Colleagues, I had the same questions as you under the freeze. This was also discussed at various consultations. We had already released the freeze for gas. Maintaining the freeze was no longer possible because of judgments and European regulations. With the quarterly ceilings and the annual ceiling that we have introduced with these royal decisions, we have now tried to find the maximum limits of what is Europeanly permissible. With these royal decisions, we hope to be able to cope with the price fluctuations, if they are still there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u27	Mr President, Minister, you say that the next government will have to work on a coherent strategy on energy poverty, together with the Regions, because it is about shared competence. This is a subject that we are also discussing in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate Policy, within the framework of social funds. We also note, however, that Parliament has only a limited margin of manoeuvre because the fundamental question will have to be done in consultation with a government with full competence. You should not misunderstand the next point in my reply, because you have not suggested anything else, but I think that social rates will always be part of it. We have the Federutility judgment and the directive, but these two things do not prevent other Member States from having regulated tariffs that are just a little more regulated than our social tariff. We have a reasoning and argument about the social tariff, but there are Member States that are going a lot further and that have not been flagged by Europe so far. I am still waiting for the concrete texts, including the principle of carry-forward and its proper impact. We will wait for the opinion of the Council of State to see how this is actually happening. The sector has also expressed a number of concerns about the social tariff, in terms of cost reflectivity, but also about planning costs and administrative burdens. We may be able to accept this from Parliament in relation to the CREG, since we are the CREG's controller. We need to consider whether, in order to recover claims from suppliers on refunds, changes are desirable or necessary in the entire social tariff legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand clearly that the increase is mainly due to the rise in prices on the electricity market. Several Members are speaking in this debate, but I think this is a hypocritical debate, since we will see that the measures now being proposed and advocated will only increase the energy bill in the coming years. According to the current measures, our energy dependence will reach 38% by 2025. Mr Warmoes said in the Committee on Climate Change that there are no borders around Belgium and that we can safely import energy. The debate I am hearing here therefore seems to me to be very dual, given what is being said in the various committees. I also think it is a very unfair debate. I think that we should, above all, ensure that we can continue to guarantee energy forms that are good for the climate, which is advocated, but which are also, above all, affordable for everyone, so that we do not have to have the debates on energy prematureity here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answers and for the initiatives you have taken in the meantime. You say that an increase of 8% in electricity prices will not allow the new ceilings to enter into force. I think it will be important to follow up on what this means in practice in the coming months and how much impact it will have on people who call on the social tariff. I understand your argument, but a proper follow-up is important. We must also, as you pointed out, find a coherent strategy to tackle energy poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said, I also believe that energy insecurity must be addressed structurally. A coherent strategy to reduce insecurity will be needed in collaboration with the Regions, as these are cross-cutting issues. Nevertheless, even if you said that the social rate of 8% on average should not increase, you also said that 500,000 households today benefit from this social rate. It will be necessary to be careful who the people are already in precarious condition. They are often either single women with children or isolated people with low incomes. As you said, the next government will have to pay attention to these measures to better manage these families in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u31	Minister, I listened to your answers. They don't satisfy me, you won't be surprised. I know you're not responsible because you don't have the jurisdiction. But admit that we are in the midst of surrealism. On the one hand, we have 500,000 families in energy poverty, and on the other hand, we have multinationals like ENGIE Electrabel who say by the way, pay very little taxes and make a lot of money on our backs. For 2019, ENGIE recorded a billion profits. And ENGIE has just increased the price of the megawatt per hour in Belgium by two euros, while energy insecurity is increasing as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u32	Mr President, allow me to reply to what Mr Van der Straeten said. Mrs van der Straeten, I think you are referring to France, where this is regulated. The debate on increasing energy cheques is also taking place, with or without a reduction in regulated prices. Under pressure from Europe, therefore, France also reverts to previous decisions and looks at other possibilities. That is right, because if we applied it in this way, it would be a story of the regions. I therefore believe that this debate is being held everywhere. The system carry-back is very simple, as you will be able to read in the lyrics. If we stand at 100 today and the electricity price rises by 15% in the first trimester, for example, that increase will be capped to 10% in that trimester, i.e. to 110. If, for example, in the second trimester, electricity prices fall by 10% again, it does not fall to 100, but to 105; so it starts from the fictional 115 to which that 10% is deducted. In addition to this trimesterial play, the limits continue to apply on an annual basis. It is written in detail in the texts, but I have now explained to you the principle of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u33	Madam Minister, the debate on energy cheques in France is indeed very interesting. In our energy policy, liberalisation took place almost 20 years ago. The current challenges, such as the Green Deal, climate change and the energy strategy, will ensure that we have to commemorate our policies. In doing so, we must not hold on rigidly to what exists today. I think it is a challenge for all of us, for government and for Parliament, to translate these challenges in a just way. I can only hope that in this country we will find a way of cooperation between the regions and the federal government, by strengthening each other effectively in the policies we conduct with respect for everyone's powers, rather than thinking in isolation. This requires a broader, general debate. I do not think that we differ in this respect by definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u34	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I am pleased to ask you this question because I consider the issue to be important. Since the late 1990s, there has been a proliferation of international provisions, particularly those of American origin, notably through the gradual extension of the criteria of territorial applicability. Two striking examples of these mechanisms that allow the United States to directly sanction foreign companies are the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the Specially Designed Nationals (SDN). To be clear, the United States is adopting and applying anti-corruption legislation, among other things, around the world. Except that these laws and their extraterritorial character are found to be instrumentalized for the purposes of economic and commercial warfare. Many European companies have been prosecuted on this basis, such as Siemens, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Telekom and Total. The US judicial administration thus largely interprets its competence to prosecute foreign companies or nationals. Indeed, it targets not only legal persons, but also natural persons. For example, the use of the dollar in a transaction is sufficient to meet the criterion of attachment to the jurisdiction of their jurisdiction or the use of an email that would be hosted in the United States. Therefore, it is sufficient to use an email on gmail, for example, to ensure that the link is sufficiently established for the US judicial authorities and, therefore, to prosecute a company. Looking at the application of the FCPA, we see that 14 European companies and only five US companies were subject to heavy sanctions between 2008 and 2018. For the same period, European companies paid more than 60% or, according to some sources, 70% of the fines, which is billions of dollars for the US Treasury. In France, the National Assembly published a report on these issues on 26 June 2019. The rapporteur is not going through four paths. I quote: "The sanctions imposed (by the US judicial administration) seem to have the primary aim of weakening foreign companies in international competition." He added: "The prosecution seems to be economically motivated and the targets chosen on purpose, only large European and Asian companies in direct competition with American companies being targeted." There was the famous case of Alstom, which was purchased by General Electric at the end of this procedure. This extraterritoriality of U.S. legislation raises questions about the legitimacy of these application criteria, when ties with the U.S. are tenuous. There is obviously an issue of national sovereignty and economic sovereignty. Minister, are you aware of any cases where companies established in Belgium have been pursued in recent years through the criterion of territorial applicability of American law? According to my information, yes, but I have no more details. This extraterritoriality can have a negative impact on European companies and particularly on Belgian companies. Do you share the above? Does the Belgian legal system have tools to strengthen the protection of enterprises against the effects of the extraterritorial application of foreign legislation? Are there any initiatives or reflections in this area? What about European and international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u35	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, I should like to inform you that the answer to the first two parts of the question falls within the competence of Mr Philippe Goffin, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and his colleague Alexander De Croo, Minister of Finance. My administration does not have the information and figures requested. Belgian companies may be vulnerable as they run the risk of being included in a list of US sanctions in the event of non-compliance with extraterritorial sanctions. As a result, they may suffer serious commercial damage. Under Regulation 2271/96, European companies must not act on the extraterritorial consequences of US sanctions. They are also entitled to recover compensation for any damage caused to them as a result of the sanctions. Decisions of foreign courts based on these are invalidated with regard to their application in the European Union. This Regulation provides for the possibility for EU companies to apply for authorisation to comply with extraterritorial legislation if they can prove that non-compliance would seriously harm their interests or those of the Union. The European Commission shall examine these applications and shall be assisted by the Committee on Extraterritorial Legislation in assessing and approving authorisations. The Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs has been designated as the competent authority to inform the European Commission of all measures taken under this Regulation and of any other relevant information relating to this Regulation. The Treasury and the Federal Public Service Economy have been designated as competent authorities to ensure compliance with the provisions of European Regulation 2271/96. The role of the FPS Economy is solely to receive applications under this Regulation and to communicate these requests to the European Commission through the Permanent Representation. As regards proceedings and penalties for non-compliance with this Regulation, they fall within the competence of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u36	Minister, I hear that other ministers are competent. We have a voice at European level, and I think it is precisely on this unknown issue that we must make it heard. This is a real issue of economic sovereignty, knowing that few cases end on the table of courts, because they are usually settled by criminal transactions with the US authorities, which amount to tens or hundreds of millions of dollars. In this regard, remember Alstom's case in France, in which the US court had imprisoned an Alstom employee and pressured that person to buy the company at low prices. So there is really a factor that should not be overlooked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u37	I should like to remind you that the speaking time for questions is two minutes, two and a half minutes. I have been flexible during the current debate, but from now on I would ask you to scrupulously observe the time allotted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u38	Madam Minister, according to the Washington Post, President Donald Trump would have recently threatened to tax imports of European cars by 25% if France, the United Kingdom and Germany did not use the dispute resolution mechanism provided for in the Vienna Agreement, in the context of the conflict between his country and Iran. London, Paris and Berlin launched a procedure on Tuesday 14 January: in a joint communiqué, the foreign ministers of these three countries justified this decision by the Iranian announcement of the fifth and final phase of the plan to reduce its nuclear commitments. At the conclusion of the Extraordinary Council of Foreign Ministers on 10 January, however, the High Representative stated that the use of this instrument had not been mentioned by the Ministers. Moreover, we know Donald Trump's business intentions since he came to power. Already in 2018 and 2019, the US President had repeatedly threatened European countries with a 20% tax on imported vehicles. After Canada, Mexico and Japan, the European Union is the largest exporter of vehicles to the United States. Are you aware of the information I just mentioned? Are other sectors of activity affected by this blackmail? How many Belgian or Belgian companies could be affected by these American threats?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u39	Dear colleague, the American threat of imposing sanctions on imports of cars into the United States has been hovering over the European Union since 2018 and regularly returns to the forefront according to current events. The United States is using these threats as a lever in trade negotiations with the European Union. Only the automotive sector is subject to an investigation in the United States which has not yet resulted in a decision in a proceeding under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act. However, it is not excluded to see other sectors threatened, as President Trump suggested on 22 January in Davos. The Belgian value added committed to U.S. imports of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers is quite limited and indirect. Belgium enters the U.S. market mainly through exports to the U.S. of cars from Germany and, to a lesser extent, Asian countries. Since Belgian companies are mainly suppliers of large car manufacturers, it is extremely complicated to identify the number of Belgian companies likely to be affected by this US measure. This is all the more so since a contraction in motor vehicle activity could also impact, as a result of contagion effects, other industries not directly affected by the potential US tax. I do not have very explicit figures because this is not yet the case. It's a threat. And you are right to say that this threat is very present. We need to follow this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u40	Madam Minister, I take it from the end of your reply that we share the same concern for European sovereignty and respect for multilateralism in relations with our foreign partners. But this is something that will have to be closely monitored, especially as we are talking more and more concretely about a free trade agreement with the United States. Such intimidation and threats should therefore not be used to establish a form of balance of forces in the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Taquin's 55002866C is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55002974C by Mrs Houtmeyers is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u42	Madam Minister, the phenomenon of solarium has been under attack for a long time, and this is now stirred up by a statement by Dutch cancer expert Peter Huijgens, in which he calls for all solar banks to be banned. Research carried out by the British Medical Journal shows that the risk of melanoma increases by 20% when going to the solarium at least once. If this is done before the age of thirty-five, the risk even doubles. The most important thing: there is no safe limit to solariums at all. In addition to the fact that solar banks are not safe anyway, even under strict conditions, a reply from you to a written question shows that only 8% of the on-the-spot controlled solar centres are in order and only 12% in the case of surveys with questionnaires. Given the years of controls, it is striking that these figures are so low and that so few centres comply with the legislation. Firstly, it was possible to read in the press that you would be sitting together with the solarium sector at the beginning of February. Has that happened in the meantime and what are the conclusions of that conversation? Secondly, the answers to my written question show that few of the controlled solar banks comply with the legislation. What rules are imposed on solar banks which make the most breaches of controls? That wasn't so clear. Thirdly, these figures seem very disturbing to me. Do you intend to have additional checks carried out? Would that be a solution or would other measures be needed? Do you intend to make the inspection results public, so that consumers know which solar banks comply with the law and which do not? Fourthly, when comparing the 2017 figures with the 2018 figures, it can be seen that the total amount of transactions paid decreases, while the number of companies that have received a transaction proposal increases. Since the number of pvprs to the parquet is also falling, it is not because the companies refused to pay, but rather because too low fines are imposed in the event of infringements. Is this reasoning correct? Is it not necessary to impose stricter sanctions, which would increase the compliance of solar banks with the rules? Have you provided for sanctions for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u43	Madam Minister, I have raised the problem of solariums with your predecessors on several occasions. Three years ago, there was a request from the Supreme Health Council to simply ban sunbeds. This opinion to the government was then accompanied by a dozen reasons. A prevention campaign coupled with a total ban on solar bank use could avoid some 6,000 deaths in 50 years. Health costs could be reduced by a prevention campaign of 27.7 million euros and by a total ban on solar banks by a further 238 million euros. Ministers De Block and Peeters did not answer that question. I found it scratching that the discussion revealed that people do not even know how many solariums are being commercially exploited in our country. We know how many recognized solar centres there are, but how many solariums are used in beauty salons or fitness centers? As has already been said, a number of specialists in this area are asking for a ban. That call is getting louder and so this debate is burning again. I understand you've planned a meeting with the sector. Febelsol itself says that you must introduce a compulsory permit for the more than 400 solar centres in our country. That way people want to deal with the rotten apples. Madam Secretary, has that conversation taken place yet? What was the conclusion? What are your concerns about the recommendation of the Supreme Health Council? What measures will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u44	Minister, in early February, the Council of State annulled the 2017 Royal Order laying down the conditions for the operation of tanning centres. This royal decree did not prohibit solar benches, as recommended by the Supreme Council of Health, but it was a step forward: it imposed consumer information requirements regarding the risk of skin cancer, it required customers to have a doctor's certificate to identify the skin type and it set minimum rules for equipment. It is true that these rules were far from being respected. In response to a parliamentary question I asked you in October, you said that only 9.6% of the controlled tanning centres were in order. But these rules had merit to exist. There is no need to recall the need for a framework for the sector: the WHO classifies the solar bench as a carcinogen in its own right. According to the Supreme Council of Health, a campaign to prevent skin cancer, combined with a total ban on the use of solar benches, would prevent 6,000 deaths in 50 years. Minister, what are the rules that continue to apply to tanning centre operators today? Have you met the Federation of Solarium Operators? If so, what message did you send them? Have you analysed the judgment of the Council of State and what are your conclusions? Finally, are you considering new regulations to achieve consumer protection objectives, particularly in the area of cancer prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u45	Mr President, I will first answer the questions concerning the supervision by the Economic Inspectorate. Last year, a detailed questionnaire was sent to 503 tanning centres. A total of 356 centres responded to the questionnaire and 169 of them reported that they were no longer operating a solar bench. In analysing these responses, it is worrying to note that in only 44 cases workers complied with the regulations, which means that 143 tanning centres themselves indicated that they were not in good standing on one or more points. In the past year, 99 investigations were conducted on-site and in only 12 cases no violations were found. Finally, 76 pro justitia were written. During these checks, the radiation was measured from 103 solariums. At 40 of them, too much radiation was detected. Other conditions, the non-compliance of which poses a direct risk to consumer safety and health, have also been violated massively. As regards the halving of the dose during the first sunshine, 42 % infringements were observed; as regards the minimum interval between two sunshine, 36 % infringements were observed and as regards the correct determination of the skin type, 37 % infringements were detected. The only bright thing was that last year there were no infringements in relation to the ban on entry for minors. As the global figure indicates, there were also many infringements of other operating conditions. However, a purely mathematical approach to the proposed transactions can lead to a false picture. The administration shall assess autonomously and in full independence whether or not a transaction is operated and how high the proposed transactions are. This takes into account the different elements of each dossier, but also the fact that it is a new regulation. In any case, we have asked the Economic Inspectorate to act even more strictly than before and to consider whether, in certain cases, the temporary or permanent closure of a centre should not be carried out. Because of the continuing poor results, I met those involved on 19 February. I have once again pointed out to Febelsol the poor results and the fact that further strict controls will be carried out. Febelsol argued that the sector should be put in order and argued that the solar centres that would be seriously affected should be closed down. Febelsol sees a licensing system as a means of doing this. I am very pleased that I am being forced to do something that I do not have the authority to do. Such a permit is a regional competence. It's not federal jurisdiction anymore. Febelsol also wanted to participate in good regulation. As a result of the Council of State's ruling, I asked what the proposals from Febelsol were. I received the answer a few days ago that Febelsol does not want to cooperate immediately, given that the government is in current affairs and it is better that I do not take any action now. At the time of the complete annulment of the Royal Decree of 24 September 2017, the Council of State limited itself to examining only one plea, namely the violation of a prescribed formality, which is punishable by nullity. Following the opinion of the section of the legislation on the draft royal decree and at the request of the sector, further relaxation was provided in relation to the condition of the determination of the skin type by a doctor. In its judgment, the Council stated that the amended text should have been resubmitted for opinion. The other means were not examined. This means, in concrete terms, that the old KB of June 2002 is in place again. Finally, I would like to add a few elements. You rightly refer to my predecessors, who have always pointed out the seriousness of the situation in the discussions with the sector. Let me be very clear about that. When my predecessor made the last KB, in which a very clear request was made for a medical prescription, they almost begged to get another exception and to be able to work with a device that would measure skin sensitivity. My predecessor has dealt with this and has also amended the legislation. Afterwards they went to the Council of State, arguing that something was added to a Royal Decree which was not submitted for advice, on which the opinion was lost, to say that it is not always evident cooperation. I've received them. That wasn't a friendly conversation. I have referred to their duties and to the fact that they are presenting very bad results today and that they are not getting any better. We also note that things are moving at European level. France, for example, has asked the European Commission to consider the possibilities for introducing a ban at European level. So things are moving. For example, if I would like to re-introduce the new KB, because we are on current business, I must go back to a pre-notification in Europe. That is another rather complex procedure. We are looking at the Council of State's ruling and are considering our options in a good way. On the basis of all the information, including those that I do not have yet, but which I hope I will soon get, I intend to make a correct decision in this respect for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. When I saw the figures in your answer to the written question, I was shocked by the many infringements. I had the hope that this would often be bad information, which is of course also serious but not so much a direct risk to health. However, you indicated that the figures for directly dangerous cases are very high, which is particularly problematic. Those are no longer minor infringements and we can therefore ask ourselves whether controls alone are useful. Perhaps it is necessary to introduce other measures now, because it is clear that the checks themselves are not enough. The industry doesn't think there's anything you can do in current cases. From their point of view, that may be obvious, but I am pleased that you acknowledge that the FPS Economy is allowed to act more strictly. In any case, this is a discussion that will come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u47	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you too find this worrying and that you are taking action. You say that we must act more strictly from the Economic Inspectorate. I didn't expect anything else from you. When I see how the sector behaves, I am very worried. I read in an article that people were talking about getting the rotten apples out. So the industry itself wants you to take out the rotten apples, but when I see these fancy figures, it's like a basket full of rotten apples. That really can't smell good anymore. You also mentioned breaches of skin type assessment via a measuring device. I was never in favour of that, because I don't think this is working. If the centres did not have that skin type determination device, the customers had to bring a doctor's certificate. That was the alternative that was in the scheme. However, what doctor will issue a certificate to allow him to lie under such a machine? I asked Mrs. De Block once. She stated that she would not recommend anyone, with any skin type, to lie under a sunbed. These things are very unhealthy when they work well. I'm an expert myself, and I know what these things can cause. If we look at these fancy figures, which indicate that they often do not even do what they have to do and that they therefore perform far worse than they should, we are very concerned about that. I am glad that you also consider the problem urgent and we will continue to come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u48	Madam Minister, like my colleagues, I am quite surprised by the figures you mentioned. It is now estimated that one in six Europeans will develop skin cancer. We know it's the most common cancer today. We don't often talk about malignant melanoma, skin cancer. It is mainly recurrent in particular as a result of the use of solariums. It is true that the crime figures are alarming. I'm still happy with your answers and the fact that you're taking this problem with you. Inspections should be much more stringent and the SPF Economy should also be stricter in terms of the conditions of use of solar benches. More information should also be provided to young people. I'm not sure they're systematically controlled when they come for a solarium session. I guess no ID is required. How do we check age? Even if it's forbidden, I'm not convinced that this control is done too. I am not going to mention them, you know them better than I do, but the figures of the Cancer Foundation are still alarming by age category, especially among young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u49	Minister, I am reminded that a significant increase in reports of abuses committed by false collection offices has recently been noted. While it is recommended to go check on the SPF Economy website if the collection office is recognized in Belgium, too many people still seem to be victims of this kind of fraud. In order to combat this fraud and to inform consumers from now on, you have announced that you want to launch an awareness campaign – which I obviously welcome. Madam Minister, I have a few questions to ask you. In the face of this increase in abuse, how do you intend to combat this form of fraud? What does the awareness-raising campaign provide for in this regard? What measures does the FPS Economy take in case of reporting? What can victims do about these scams?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u50	Ms. Jadin, the Economic Inspectorate analyses the reports she receives about collection offices and conducts investigations to detect violations. To that end, it was actively working with the police and the prosecution services. Where there is a presumption of fraud and the person concerned can be identified, the Inspectorate shall transmit a report to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to which it is responsible. She will continue to work in this way. Several prevention initiatives have already been taken. Stakeholders such as banks as well as hosting and telecommunications companies are informed about the modus operandi of fraudsters. In this way, they become more attentive to the phenomenon. This enables them to disable or restrict access to an online interface, prevent payments from being made by bank account, or block phone numbers. The SPF Economy regularly warns against false collection offices, including via press releases, social networks and its website, which contains a grey list of collection offices. The aim is to make consumers aware of the dangers of false collection offices and to instill in them certain reflexes. A mailing was also sent to local police and municipalities to continue the dissemination of the campaign to citizens. I commissioned the SPF Economy to set up a new awareness campaign against fraud. This time, the intention is to make use of radio spots and to use social media more intensively to better reach the general public. At the same time, the aim is to make the point of contact of the SPF Economy better known so that the consumer can use it even more than today. When it comes to false collection offices, the consumer is confronted with fraud. If he had made a payment, he could only hope to recover his money by registering as a civil party. When it comes to the recovery of an actual debt by a collection office, it must be registered with the FPS Economy. If this is not the case or if the collection office does not comply with the conditions of the Act of 20 December 2002, a civil sanction is provided. The collection office must refund the amount paid by the consumer and its payment in respect of the creditor is considered valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u51	Thank you. It's a very complete answer. I think the measures you intend to take with your administration are absolutely in the right direction. I hope that this larger campaign will bear fruit. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bayet's 55003106C is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55003109C by Mrs Houtmeyers was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u53	Mr President, in fact, this is the same question that I have addressed to Mrs Muylle and Mr Ducrame. Minister, the WWF Environmental Organization recently released its annual Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard ranking. This is an analysis of the policy of 173 companies in the field of sustainable palm oil. The report analyses in particular whether companies meet the RSPO standard and whether they guarantee zero deforestation and zero ecosystem conversion. The ranking shows that Belgian companies are not exemplary; some are even at the end of the peloton (the first comes in twentieth place on the list). For the most part, however, they are members of the Belgian Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil (BASP) and have committed themselves to placing on the market only products containing 100% sustainable palm oil, starting in 2020, thus for the last two months. In February 2018, another Belgian NGO report pointed to the fact that the controls surrounding this Belgian Alliance are unfortunately very insufficient, if not non-existent. From the commitments of the members of the Alliance to reality, there is a great margin. However, we know how devastating the impact of palm oil exploitation on both the environment and climate, biodiversity and human rights can be, as it is often done at the expense of indigenous peoples and their habitat. Madam Minister, what means does Belgium put in place to ensure that only palm oil that meets the RSPO standard and the guarantee "without deforestation" enters our market? What about a national due diligence framework for companies, like the French law of 2017? What is Belgium doing to establish public procurement policies that require companies to buy only certified palm oil? Does Belgium intend to join the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership and thus sign and implement the Amsterdam Declarations on the Elimination of Deforestation of Agricultural Product Chains? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u54	Mr President, Madam de Laveleye, I should like to inform you that your questions 1, 4 and 5 fall within the competence of Mrs De Block and Mr Ducrame. With regard to the implementation of a national due diligence framework, an important awareness-raising effort was carried out in the context of the implementation of the first National Business and Human Rights Action Plan adopted in 2017. The Plan includes 33 actions aimed at stimulating Belgian companies and international companies active in Belgium, as well as public organisations and authorities to respect and promote human rights both within them and in their sphere of influence. It was also reviewed in January 2019 and assessed with stakeholders in May 2019. Several sectoral awareness events were organized by the National Contact Point for OECD Guidelines (textiles, agriculture, minerals, finance, etc.).). A new action plan is under discussion with stakeholders (trade unions, business federations and NGOs). The legislative debate on due diligence will be addressed within a multinational framework. Current discussions at the OECD and the European Council tend to promote a coherent and harmonised vision between the different member countries in order to avoid differentiated approaches to the potential negative impacts on competitiveness. Belgium supports this work and advocates harmonisation. With regard to public procurement, the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development, in cooperation with the Regions, has carried out a series of sustainable procurement guides detailing sustainability criteria by product and service category, including a fact sheet on food and beverages. The May 16, 2014 circular, which defines how sustainable development can be integrated into federal government procurement, refers to these sustainable procurement guides.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm still a little destabilized. I had introduced the questions on purpose to two different ministers for a full answer. Obviously, they were joined here. I will turn to Mr. Ducrame for the other questions. I'm sure he'll send me home. But it doesn't matter. We'll continue. Thank you for the information. Can you still answer the question about the Amsterdam Declarations? Or isn't it your responsibility? Belgium has not signed these Amsterdam declarations. The latest NGO reports show that this would be more than relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u56	I think it is rather the responsibility of Mr Ducrame. That's not my skill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u57	All right. I'll turn to him. Everyone sees that if we want to live up to the 2030 commitments for sustainable development, obviously labels and policy notes are not enough. I think we have everything to gain from our government being even more ambitious to support and, if necessary, sometimes even force our businesses to achieve better results. You certainly agree with me: we cannot rejoice in the ranking of our companies in the WWF report. It seems to me that your government can do better to accompany them and push them to go beyond labels that are clearly not controlled. Perhaps something remains to be done to ensure better follow-up of the current labels in a more coherent way. Thank you for keeping an eye on this because we really need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u58	Mr President, Minister, this is one of the first questions I asked in 2007 already. Your predecessor was, at the time, Mr. Magnette. I am curious to know if the answer will be different because the problem is still not resolved. The legal provisions in this area also do not make it possible to be very proactive, but I am going to ask the question. German-speaking consumers do not benefit from a follow-up or service in their mother tongue from energy distributors. This is a very uncomfortable but also discriminatory situation. Indeed, I am of the opinion that every citizen has the right to be informed as clearly and as fully as possible in his language. No one knows that our country has three national languages. The problem of German-speaking customers being supervised in German by energy distributors is not new. For the last few years, I have been asking the ministers responsible for this matter on a regular basis. You do not escape, Madam Minister. It has recently come back to me that the Government of the German-speaking Community was preparing a class action under the possibility of taking a class action against energy distributors who do not respect German-speaking consumers. Unfortunately, the Law on the Use of Languages would not provide for any such provision. Minister, do you confirm that the Language Use Act does not apply to private companies? Could you give us an update on the situation? Do you and your administration have the opportunity to best satisfy German-speaking consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, thank you for your question, which you have already answered in part. The laws on the use of languages in administrative matters include an article which imposes obligations on private enterprises with regard to the use of languages. This is in particular Article 52. The language to be used is the language of the Region where the place of business is established, on the one hand, for documents which are required by law or regulation and, on the other hand, for documents which are intended for their staff. Apart from this, private companies have the free choice of the language in which they communicate with their contractors. The Code of Economic Law provides that the consumer must receive pre-contractual information in a clear and understandable manner. This obligation does not go so far as to impose the language of the contract or even the language in which pre-contractual information must be given. In addition, there are no rules for the use of a language in the performance of contracts or after-sales services. We may regret this, but there is no legal rule that requires private companies to communicate in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you. This is the answer I expected, but it obviously does not satisfy me, as it is in a situation where most of the networks that existed before the liberalisation of the electricity sector were public and therefore subject to these rules. These companies benefit from the networks managed by intercommunals, i.e. the public – I am thinking of our municipalities and the responsibility of the Regions, the latter being subject to the law on the use of languages. I know that the law does not allow this, but perhaps we should have a little help in pushing the consumer to receive the information in his language. As you know, with the liberalisation of the electricity market, bills have become increasingly complex. Electricity prices are a real job in a household that needs to pay attention to it. To understand what is being paid and why it must, in my view, remain a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u61	I know that this question is very sensitive to you. Here, I think the problem is that the operating headquarters is not established in the German-speaking region. The only way is to adapt the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u62	Mr President, Minister, the consumer organisation Test Purchase failed several airlines in October 2019 due to certain clauses applied by a number of airlines. It is about making travellers pay when a typo was made on a plane ticket that they wanted to improve afterwards. Such clauses are unlawful according to Test Purchase. Her actions have also yielded results. A few months ago, for example, Ryanair charged 115 or 160 euros to correct a typo. Today, customers could improve up to three characters at no extra cost. However, many other airlines still charge costs. These include Brussels Airlines, TUI Fly, Vueling Airlines, British Airways and other carriers. Thus, the majority of airlines still charge these costs. According to Test Purchase, it is illegal to charge those costs. Is that right? What steps can the Economic Inspectorate take? Are the different airlines being checked? What sanctions can the Economic Inspectorate impose?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, I have answered almost the same question in another committee. According to the FPS Economy, the position of Test Purchase cannot be shared unconditionally. In itself, it is not illegal for an airline to charge costs for improving errors made by the passenger during the booking. In the first place, it is the responsibility of the traveller to ensure that his identity data is correctly reported at the time of booking. Air carriers are subject to strict rules on the identification of passengers. However, the cost of corrections should not be excessive and should be proportionate to the cost of such changes to the air carrier concerned. In addition, during the reservation procedure, air carriers should provide sufficient information to the passenger on the manner in which he or she must provide his or her identity information on the booking form. It is therefore possible that this could be an unlawful clause against which the Economic Inspectorate could intervene. The criminal sanctions go up to 25,000 euros, increasing by the odds. Aircraft companies, by definition, operate internationally. A cross-border approach within the European Union is therefore necessary. In 2015, the European Fair Skies project carried out an investigation into unlawful terms among airlines. That project did not lead to a unanimous view on the costs of the correction of booking data. As the above-mentioned action already dates from 2015, my administration within the CPC network will question the other Member States on their current position in these matters and consider what action can be taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u64	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u65	Madam Minister, since the law on various economic provisions of 30 July 2018, there has been a legal framework to promote open access or free access to scientific articles in journals, at least when scientific research was funded by public funds. In this way knowledge, which has been created by public means, is made available to everyone immediately or provided that a short waiting period is made available. Firstly, this is important for other scientists, who can build on the information. This avoids similar parallel investigations, allows certain slopes to be abandoned or further explored and allows faster progress to be made on research and development. In addition, public funds can be more targeted. In addition, it can contribute to scientific literacy and correct provision of information to the general public. We are 18 months later since the entry into force of the law and I wonder how publishers and authors of scientific works have responded to the law since then. Is there an increase in the number of scientific articles with free access? If so, where can they be consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u66	Mrs Gijbels, according to the information provided by the publishers, they include the legal provision on open access in their agreements with the authors. Even if they have not explicitly included them, they know that, following an embargo period following the first edition in a magazine, authors have the right to make the manuscript available free of charge in open access to the public, provided that the source of the first edition is mentioned. This right of authors automatically applies, even if the contract of issue is silent. As far as the Flemish universities are concerned, the researchers place their articles in a specific database that differs from one university to another, for example Lirias for the KULeuven. The deposit in the database is important for the researcher, because it is a criterion for promoting the researcher, so that many university regulations have introduced the deposit obligation. The author may then give a mandate to the university to place the deposited article in open access after the embargo period. For example, the KULeuven has a support point open access, which will do the necessary for the placement of the article in open access and that will check whether the legal conditions for open access are indeed fulfilled. On the French-speaking side, the deposit obligation for researchers was introduced by a Decree of 3 May 2018. The deposit obligation is also carried out in a separate database of each French-speaking university, including Diffusion at ULB and DIAL at UCLouvain. The Federal Scientific Institutions also have an open access database, ORFEO. According to researchers and universities, there has been a marked increase in the number of scientific articles placed in open access since the entry into force of the law. The publishers, in turn, contradict and refer to France, where a report was handed over to the French Minister of Culture in December 2019, stating that the number of articles placed in open access would have been reduced since the French law of 7 October 2016. However, concrete figures for Belgium are currently not available. The publishers therefore ask for an impact study. The articles placed in open access can be found via the use of the search engine Google on the internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u67	Thank you. I'm actually curious about the result of that impact study. I believe open access is very valuable. For example, in connection with the coronavirus that several scientific journals have agreed to make all research results and epidemiological data available to everyone immediately during the time of the epidemic, making progress very quickly in detecting and recognizing patients and developing medication and vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u68	We'll let you know when the FOD finishes that study.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u69	Madam Minister, there was a discussion in this committee on digitalisation in the banking sector a while ago. The hearing then showed that there is still a very large group of people not with the digital trends. It was also found that many large banks still charge costs for digital applications. For BNP Paribas there is even a rate increase of a third or 60% for certain cases. Other banks are doing better in this respect: KBC and Belfius allow exceptions. At KBC and Crelan paper transfers are free for 65-plussers, at Belfius there is no charge for 70-plussers. You could say that people are free to change banks, but that's obviously not so obvious. You recently said in the press that you would have a survey of the rate of increase faster than inflation and, if necessary, you would take initiatives. What initiatives could you take to reduce rising bank charges? Changing banks doesn't seem so easy. However, since 2018 there is an app that should make that a little easier. Through the banking switching service, the new bank informs creditors with a direct debit and recurring payers of the new account number. That's an administrative burden less for the client. However, the number of transfers remains extremely limited. Would you like to take initiatives to make the service better known to the general public? If so, how? Is there a simple procedure for changing banks to keep their account number, as one can keep their phone number when changing telecom operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u70	I asked my administration to analyse the evolution of bank charges. In particular, they analyse the cost of services linked to a current account for the most vulnerable consumers, such as some older people. I also asked for an overview of the possible measures to ensure that vulnerable consumers have access to the services linked to their current account at a reasonable price. In doing so, account should be taken of European legislation, as legislation on payment accounts and payment services has been harmonised. Depending on the results, I will consider the measures to be taken. This includes questions about the basic banking service. I expect the results of this impact analysis in the course of March. Then we'll definitely get back to it. The payment service provider has a legal obligation to arrange the bank transfer through a simplified procedure. He also has a duty to provide information about that service free of charge on a durable medium in all his offices, as well as on his website. In addition, initiatives were taken to raise consumer awareness. For example, there is a specific website banking switching, which also contains a brochure and an application form. In addition, there is information about banking switching on the website of the FOD Economy and Wikifin, an initiative of the FSMA. Wikifin also provides a tariff simulator to better compare the costs of payment accounts, allowing consumers to make a well-founded choice and to increase competition. In the current state of affairs, bank account numbers cannot be taken into account in the event of bank change in Europe. Any portability of a payment account number should be considered first and foremost at European level, as the IBAN number is a European standard. The European Commission is currently reviewing the Payment Account Directive and will assess, inter alia, the costs and benefits of a Union-wide portability of payment account numbers in its report. The account number is a unique number, which can also be identified by the bank itself where the payment account is held. That is why the number is also very interesting for supervisors and judicial authorities in the context of their investigations, because they know immediately where the account comes from. That would disappear for a piece, but we are waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u71	Madam Minister, when the same discussion was held in the past on telephone numbers, there was also a great deal of restraint. Of course, it's a different angle. That is why I understand that you say that this element is very important for the fight against fraud, for example, and may therefore probably be more decisive, but it is obvious that the sector is somewhat reluctant to look at such a measure. However, in March, you will come back to the committee to explain more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u72	Madam Minister, this question has already been put by Mr de Laveleye and myself to Minister Ducarme. Packaging-free shops are on the rise. You will not be surprised that we Greens are in favour of this. From the packaging-free shops we hear that they clash with a number of rules that are not always logical, because one is allowed and the other is not. That is why we have asked Minister Ducarme about flour as well as olive oil whether there are any rules that hinder the loose sale. In the meantime, for flour, we have received the answer that there might be a risk to food safety. For olive oil, Minister Ducarme replied that there is no risk to food safety in case of loose sales. If we ask him to do that, he'll send us to you, which is why we're here in duo today. If a farmer can sell his milk to me if I go to him with a pure bottle, how come this is not possible for olive oil? We have also done some research and know that chains like Oil and Vinegar have collided with the same rules, with a possible conviction. It's still running. However, they have found a detour. By adding an aroma or flavor, it is no longer pure olive oil, but olive oil with a flavor. Then it's okay. Can there really be nothing about that rule, where olive oil with a branch of rosemary is not olive oil and it is allowed to do so, whereas it should not be allowed to do so directly from the producer in the case of pure olive oil?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u73	Long live Europe, right? There are specific European rules for olive oil, for example for milk. That's a difference. These rules provide that olive oil may only be sold in pre-packaged form. Pre-packages must not exceed five litres and must be closed with a single closure. Sales in bulk are prohibited. There are no such rules for milk. The main reason for these European rules on olive oil is the high sensitivity of the product to fraud. In addition, it is a natural product that is sensitive to exposure to air and light. The strict European rules apply only, as you have said, to the different forms of pure olive oil, not to olive oil to which flavourings or other substances have been added. The obligation to sell in a pre-packaged form does not apply. Bulk sales are therefore possible. I always buy olive oil with some basil, which proves to be okay. I am told that France is currently examining whether shops can be regarded as packers through European legislation, which might be a possibility. However, together with the FPS Economy, we are also looking at the limits of European regulation. So we are still very careful about that today. However, we also see the madness of the measure. We are also trying to see whether we can offer solutions in this area. I can't promise that. All I can say is that we're working on the exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u74	Mr President, Minister, perhaps we should try via Europe in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u75	That seems to me to be the right path.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u76	It is a very strange fact indeed, because the quality of olive oil with a taste is, in my view, only deteriorating. I also hear you say that the rule is there because of the sensitivity of fraud. When we pour containers of five litres into small bottles, we actually do the same thing. I do not see the solution in that. I understand there's nothing you can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u77	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u78	However, I know that in Italy there are anti-fraud caps on bottles of olive oil for the catering industry. Maybe we should take a look at that slope, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u79	It seems interesting to me to ask a question through colleagues in the European Parliament. It seems to me that we need to take action in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u80	To be continued. The incident will be closed here for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u81	Recently, the NIS issued a warning regarding the bill providing for an extension of the payment period. However, according to the NIS, any company with a solvency ratio below 15% would be threatened by the extension of the period in question. According to their estimates, more than 50,000 companies would be too small and would not generate enough turnover to cover their costs. Because of this huge risk, which would mainly affect SMEs employing at least ten workers, the text was delivered at the end of last year for advice to the Council of State. Minister, what is the status of this proposal? What is the opinion of the Council of State? Could firms with a low turnover ensure that they cover their costs while waiting for payment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u82	Mrs Jadin, your question surprises me because it is indeed a bill for which this House decided in plenary to seek the opinion of the Council of State. This is not a government proposal. I don't know if you were here this morning...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u83	This morning... no!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u84	This morning, the committee discussed the subject. The opinion is therefore available in parliamentary documents. I got it. The proposal has been put on the agenda of this committee. Mr President, I understand that the Commissioners had the discussion this morning. There are 36 amendments. A vote is scheduled next week. Among the amendments, there are many questions from your colleagues too. The opinions of the Council of State are reflected in the amendments. It will be up to Parliament to vote next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u85	All right, thank you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u86	This will be continued next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u87	Minister, in 2019, the Energy Mediation Service received a total of 7,055 complaints, 5% more than in 2018 and 22% more than in 2017. According to this service, this permanent increase in the number of complaints is due to two factors. First, the increases in energy prices and any payment problems that may arise from them. Second, and above all, the sometimes dubious sales practices of energy suppliers and the changes in unwanted suppliers that are often the consequence. This trend indicates that, despite the efforts of CREG, there is still confusion in the electricity and gas market. And in the end, it is our fellow citizens who find themselves wronged by not always very scrupulous suppliers. Minister, in the face of this alarming fact, what do you intend to do to protect consumers in this area and to force suppliers to be less zealous? Do you intend to follow the recommendation of the Energy Mediation Service that calls for a ban on sale at home and on sale on public or private roads?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u88	Mr Vicar, this is almost every committee's question. For business practices, European rules for maximum harmonisation apply. It's important. This is the case for contracts concluded outside establishments, e.g. door-to-door sales, and distance contracts resulting from telephone sales. These European rules have been transposed into Book VI of the Code of Economic Law. Maximum harmonisation means that Member States cannot introduce additional or derogation rules. In response to questions raised in this committee, it has already been repeatedly answered that it is impossible to prohibit door-to-door sales. Through codes of conduct, companies can impose additional constraints. In the energy sector, this was done through the consumer agreement in the liberalised electricity and gas market. The economic inspectorate shall ensure compliance with the provisions of the Code of Economic Law and codes of conduct. Infringements can lead to a pro justitia. I have also asked the Economic Inspectorate to examine whether it is possible to bring an action for cessation against certain suppliers. This review is under way and I expect the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that action is being monitored. On the site of the SPF Economy, Medium Classes, SMEs and Energy, perhaps it would be wise to classify suppliers and impose a visible label in order to differentiate those who have signed this charter from those who have not. As the energy manager for Ecolo, I would like to say that I dream of being able to add some kind of logo indicating that when we sell green energy, it really is. There is still much work to be done and perhaps information campaigns to prevent consumers and our fellow citizens from selling at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u90	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you have just returned to this committee meeting. Mr Depraetere has just left. It asked for the combined questions. 55003088C of yourself and 55003262C of her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u91	Madam Minister, my question concerns the labelling of food. Earlier, I asked you a question about the date designation on food. That question was referred to Minister Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u92	And he sent your question back to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u93	Not quite. In this question, I am very specific about how to deal with wrong labelling of food. On food packs, there may be two entries at the expiry date. A first possibility is the indication "at least preserved until," after which the food can still be consumed safely. Another option is to use the term "to use until," after which food can no longer be consumed safely. These two terms often confuse consumers. Normally there was a vote on a resolution on the agenda this morning, but it was postponed to next week. In this resolution, I advocate, among other things, a better awareness among consumers, in order to combat food waste. The question I am asking you now concerns something that I have encountered in practice. On a jar of yogurt was written in Dutch as an expiration date "to be used until," while in German the text mentioned "mindestens haltbar bis," which translates into Dutch "at least sustainable until." In other words, for the Dutch speakers it is no longer safe to consume the product after the specified date, while for the German speakers there is apparently no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u94	German speakers can do better with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u95	Yeah, something like that. In any case, I think that such a date indication only adds to the confusion. Madam Minister, how is it possible that the actual expiry date differs from language group to language group? How can we prevent errors on labelling in the future? Are control mechanisms already in place to avoid such errors? If so, which one? What could be responsible for the error? If there are no control mechanisms, will you consult the sector on this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u96	Mrs Van Bossuyt, as you say, there are indeed two concepts. "To use until" refers to the health of the consumer, while the term "at least sustainable until" refers to the quality of the products. If the translation is poorly executed, it is the responsibility of the producer. In the example you give, I think that a wrong stamp or something has been used in the production, which confuses both terms. Of course, the same date may not be possible when both terms are used. In 2016, a protocol was signed between the FPS Economy and the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. According to that protocol, the BFSA is responsible for the control of both entries on food products and must also carry out those checks. At the end of 2019, the BFSA asked my administration, the FPS Economy, to review the protocol, also following the change in the legislation. As long as the protocol has not been revised, the BFSA remains competent. The food agency is the area of activity of colleague Ducarme. I'm waiting for a proposal from him and the BFSA to change the protocol. This is really necessary in order to give the consumer clarity. I would very much like to contribute to this, but I am waiting for a text or proposal from my colleague. In response to this question, we are informing again, but we are waiting for his initiative so that we can deal with this in order to protect the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. If I understand correctly, there is indeed a control mechanism under the dome of the BFSA. Apparently, there are still things that go wrong. If you look at that again, I would like to urge you to ensure that it does not occur as much as possible. Food waste is a big problem. Every year, the Fleming throws away up to 23 kilos of food per person that shouldn't actually be thrown away. This is a loss for both the environment and the consumer. You will find a supporter in us to make this clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u98	Madam Minister, we note that in January the vacant position of trading premises was at a record level, on average 11.2% across the country. This vacancy also increased much faster in the past period than in the previous years. However, the emptiness figures are different in the different parts of the country. For example, the figures are higher in Wallonia than in Flanders, but there is a general trend. One of the reasons for this seems to be the emergence of e-commerce, which is fierce competition for small retailers. I know that part of the competence for this is at Flemish level, but we still need to look at what measures can be taken at the federal level to address the impact of e-commerce on retailers. What action points can we plan? This is something that needs to be addressed urgently, because it is a general trend that is getting worse and worse. What can you do from the federal government in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u99	I do not think I have any competence in this matter. After all, you are talking specifically about the vacancy figures. I can tell you a lot about this, but as former ships responsible for spatial planning and commercial settlement legislation. However, this is purely regional competence and I cannot say much or nothing about it. Of course, we have often discussed the effects of e-commerce here when it comes to, among other things, shipping and free returns. You know my position on this. If you submit a question about this, I will be happy to talk to you again about everything that has to do with e-commerce. However, if you ask me what I am going to do to reduce unemployment rates in Wallonia and Flanders, I fear I will have to disappoint you. Your colleagues in the Flemish Parliament will have to ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I do not think you fully understood the question. I am indeed talking about the fact that the vacancy is rising, but the reason for this is just for a large part to be found in e-commerce. The emptiness is a result of e-commerce and this seems to me to be a federal competence. Therefore, the question was what measures could be taken by the federal government to address the impact of e-commerce and its urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u101	Mr Van Lommel, I do not know whether you had tabled a question at the last committee meeting, but we spoke a great deal about this at that time. I therefore propose that you put a new question and I would like to give more information at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u102	You say you've talked about e-commerce in the past. However, I did not intend to go into empty positions alone. Madam Secretary, the question is pertinent and very clear. What measures have been taken by the federal government to address the impact of e-commerce on small traders and consequently the associated emptiness?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u103	I suggest that you keep the question so that next time it comes back on the agenda and I will give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u104	We will ensure that this question is again on the agenda next time and consider it not yet dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u105	Fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u106	Madam Minister, during the previous legislature, my group and I brought to the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation a proposal for a decree aimed at the transparency of institutions which it does not recognize and which is better known under the name of false universities. This text, which was adopted in 2018 and entered into force on 1 January 2019, includes the obligation to inform students, with administrative penalties for non-compliance. In 2016, the SPF Economy had 41 institutions not recognized by the public authorities and providing diplomas with no value in the public sector. In 2018, there were 81 (52 educational institutions in Brussels, 18 in Flanders and 11 in Wallonia). Could you take a look at the situation? How many establishments have been identified in the different regions? Have any violations been observed? Are your services in contact with the Communities on this issue in order to identify fraudulent establishments which do not have the obligation to provide information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u107	Since mid-2016, 85 educational institutions have been monitored, specifically 53 in Brussels, 20 in Flanders and 12 in Wallonia. A total of 48 warnings and 13 minutes were issued for misleading business practices. About 20 establishments were removed from the Business Carrefour Bank and three websites were made inaccessible, their respective files being forwarded to foreign authorities. The Economic Inspectorate shall be in contact with the Communities in order to identify any infringements as soon as possible. In addition, this inspection service monitors alerts transmitted to it through highly reliable contact points.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u108	Minister, I thank you for continuing your efforts on this issue, because it is a matter that I am very close to heart and that I have worked on in the previous Parliament. I am pleased to see that follow-up is ensured and that sanctions are provided for violations, and thank you for your vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u109	Mr President, Madam Minister, three years ago the point of contact "Too quickly worn out" was born. The idea was to be able to combat the planned obsolescence, with a view to the problems present on the market and which are frustrating for consumers. There is also a point of contact for the SPF Economy. In addition, last year the then Minister of Economy, Mr Kris Peeters, announced the creation of a concertation platform called "Product life" including administrations, cabinets, consumer protection organisations and business federations. In March 2019, it had met six times since its creation. Minister, has an evaluation of these contact points been conducted? If so, what do you get from it? Can you quantify the number of reports received by contact points? Are there devices that are more problematic than others? Have these contact points made progress in the fight against planned obsolescence? What about the concertation platform "Duration of product life"? Has it met on other occasions since March 2019? If so, what do you get from it? Finally, can you take stock of the checks carried out, the infringements found and the penalties imposed on the basis of the new articles XV/16/1 and XV/16/2 of the Code of Economic Law and resulting from the Act of 29 June 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u110	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the point of contact of the SPF Economy includes a scenario relating to the planned obsolescence. Few reports have been made on the basis of this scenario: no more than 12 per year. This very limited number does not make it possible to conclude that one could possibly speak of a practice of planned obsolescence for certain products. The concertation platform "Duration of product life" has not met since March 2019. The participants of this consultation platform had asked Test Purchasing to provide more information on complaints lodged via the website "Too Quickly Spent". Test Purchases did not want to respond to this request. The platform also failed to establish common views on the various concrete measures that had been proposed. As a result, the Economy FPS receives very few reports of planned obsolescence. So far, there have not been enough indications to move on to the measures provided for in the articles of law you quote. I insisted with Test Purchases to get their data. If I get enough information, I'll act. But I'm sorry, at the moment, I don't have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u111	Madam Minister, you obviously do not have to apologize because I understand that the will is there but that you are in particular lacking data. I will not fail to relay your request to Test Purchases. Thank you for taking stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic126x.u112	Debates of the European Parliament 55003572C by Mrs Depraetere is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55003584C by Mrs Depraetere is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55003746C by Mrs Houtmeyers is postponed.
