ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u2	The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement. The next item is the debate on the government statement. Colleagues, would you mind if I invited you to sit down? I've seen the Prime Minister arrive as well. I would remind you of the agreements we have made in the context of the Conference of Presidents. I remind you of the agreements reached in the Conference of Presidents. It gives a somewhat strange picture of the Chamber, but we are obliged to do so for obvious reasons. In the context of the Conference, we also said that the government would be represented by the core, i.e. the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers. If you have any questions, specifically to other members of the government who are not present, please let us know in time so that we can inform those ministers. This is also common practice in a debate on the declaration of government. That is always the case: with a specific question for this or that minister, please let us know in good time. If we agree, we can start work. I propose that we respect the normal order of speakers. I also suggest that you all speak of on your couch. I call Mr De Roover. Don't you want to intervene from the sitting room? Okay, then I'll put my seat back a little bit to keep sufficient distance from the speaker chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor very seriously. The fact that we have to stand in the gallery with this agenda today and that we are not going to talk about corona seems surreal and incomprehensible to me. While the coronavirus is taking hold, this cabinet is asking, on the basis of vague intentions and without programme, to be promoted to a fully-fledged government. Is this government a fully-fledged government and is it helping to fight corona if it has the confidence here? I would like to address these two crucial issues. I regret to note that the question of expressing confidence in Wilmès II is in stark contrast to the fact that this project was conceived out of distrust of the N-VA by some French-speaking parties, as has been shown this weekend. There was a logical path that had to be followed, namely the installation of a widely supported emergency government, limited in time and limited in programme, with the participation of the largest parties from North and South, solely aimed at combating the corona challenge. We have shown our willingness to put aside the other differences, but we were brutally and coldly rejected. Apparently, the fear of infection by the N-VA was greater in some parts than that of corona. The resentment of allowing the country's largest party to shoulder its responsibility in this crisis situation prevented such a wide-ranging solution. May I point out in this House that in January 1916, Prime Minister Charles de Broqueville included socialists in his cabinet, a group which was then seen as a revolutionary gang that sought to completely overthrow the social order? He did that because the circumstances required that unit. That greatness could not be shown last weekend. Madam Prime Minister, on Tuesday you read your declaration of government in this hemisphere and we listened to it with attention. U zei daar letterlijk: "Prove every day that we go beyond sterile ideological quarrels". Soon you will have the confidence, perhaps from groups that clearly do not want to honour this call on weekends. That you called for a union national on Tuesday sounds harsh. You chose to take the lead of a combination that is rooted in anti-N-VA-rancune, in which parties who were willing to cooperate constructively surround the arm. You should have thanked and committed yourself to a broad cooperation. We are asked to express our confidence in a government without a programme, which cannot be called a fully-fledged government in any sense. You will say that the fight against corona is the programme and you will ask for confidence in it. Allow me to disbelieve that and reject the link between corona and what we are doing here this morning. What is happening in this gallery on Tuesday afternoon and this morning has nothing to do with the fight against the terrible virus, which we regret very much. Tuesday evening, important decisions were taken to combat the corona beast. Was there a decision between which the status of current cases would have been an obstacle? The answer is no. You pointed out what has already happened in this half-round on Tuesday afternoon. We are indeed happy to note that the Länder are fully responsible and cooperate very well. We express our deep confidence in this. Your list on Tuesday did not give the impression that your government would have to operate in a powerless environment in ongoing cases concerning the fight against corona. You mentioned the Crisis Centre, the National Security Council, the Consultation Committee, the Risk Management Group, the Economic Risk Management Group. The work of these bodies is completely separate from the question of trust. On Tuesday, you closed your list of necessary action points with the words: "These objectives can be achieved by using powers of attorney for six months with an evaluation after three months." That quote also shows that your anticorona action plan is completely separate from the question of trust that you put here. As a so-called full government, you also consider it necessary to have powers of attorney, which could also be granted in current cases, as stressed by former colleague Johan Vande Lanotte. Let me quote you again from your presentation of the coalition agreement. "The simple and unique goal: to protect the health of our people." You missed the opportunity to show a link between the mood of confidence and the fight against corona evil. There is a good reason for this: there is no connection between the two. Current cases have been invented in order to be able to respond adequately to unexpected crises in the absence of a fully-fledged government. Of course, the corona crisis is one of them. The essence of the concept of current cases is that there can be full action in such acute situations. Fully-fledged governments are formed on the basis of a full-fledged government agreement. We therefore call for the debate to be conducted fairly. The corona crisis argument is a false pretext for asking for trust. Then don't use it. What you said in Parliament last Tuesday is not the problem and does not require a vote of confidence. What might be a problem is what you didn't say, Madam Prime Minister. As the executive power of a fully-fledged government, albeit without a programme, you will soon be able to take decisions under the waterline with a three-party government that are totally independent of the corona crisis, while in current cases you were bound by restrictions on those other dossiers. In addition, there is of course the unspoken hope to breed an anti-N-VA coalition according to the method by which frogs are cooked. Indeed, some of your partners are well aware that the initiative is intended to put them in a trap. I note a striking phrase from your statement last Tuesday, in which you say that 'do not go beyond the framework of current affairs for matters outside this crisis'. So you say to ask for powers of attorney before the corona crisis and stay outside within the framework of current cases. If you think so, I am completely unaware of the meaning of the debate we are having at the moment. I have a feeling that we will have to remind you of that phrase many times, because there is a suspicion that you will not be able to keep that promise. As far as corona is concerned, which our House should now have devoted its full attention to, rather than a matter of confidence, I say quite clearly here. Firstly, our group will support and critically support all sensible measures. The problems with the mouth masks prove that our critical attitude is entirely justified and that in many respects we can be of real benefit to your government. Secondly, our group is working out a first set of accompanying proposals that we will submit to Parliament or will submit directly to your government in a regime of powers of attorney. Thirdly, our group will cooperate fully to combat COOVID-19 effectively. Ik spreek de hoop uit dat de collega's van alle fracties in staat zijn "to overcome ideological quarrels." Unfortunately, I also have to speak today on this completely different matter: the unnecessary and unnecessary question of confidence. My group will not give confidence, because trust is demanded on the basis of false pretexts and because the corona case here is mixed with a story of distrust in the good faith of the N-VA. I conclude my speech with an appeal. The fact that opponents of the N-VA want to fight our party is a characteristic of the democratic system, and I have no problem with that. I urge you to put that fight to rest for a while and to realise that the enemy is now called corona and that we must tackle it jointly. Last weekend our outstretched hand was brutally denied. We regret this very much, but let us not be dragged into that negative spiral. The coronavirus can and will be overcome by the use of the people in the medical world as well as by anyone who somehow provides supportive work. They will succeed because they do not ask each other which party they belong to and because they will not exclude colleagues on the basis of that answer. In that spirit, let us proceed as quickly as possible to the real order of the day, and that is not the subject we should be dealing with now. The health of our citizens, in the broadest sense of the word, should now be everyone's first concern. It's ours. In that regard, Madam Prime Minister, you can count on us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, trust: that is the Prime Minister's question, and that will also be the answer of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. We give confidence to the interim government to tackle the corona crisis temporarily and with that focus. For us today, however, it is not about all those ministers who remain in post, but about the stretchers, drivers of trains, trams and buses, people who are working today as a transporter, police officer, doctor and nurse, about those who risk their own lives for people in need. Supporting them and giving them confidence is, in fact, a matter of course and a manifestation to us. Our countrymen deserve that trust. Yes, we are being hoarded and there are irresponsible parties, but above all we are seeing a lot of solidarity, resilience and civic spirit. The hoarding is so obvious, because so many people are indignant about it. In the meantime, the applause for our caregivers sounds louder than the noise of the parties. From Ostend to Arlen people are suffocating mouth masks: children, seniors, people without papers, prisoners, associations. The curve of COVID-19 scares us all, I think, but equally impressive is the rise of solidarity in 2020: steeper and hopeful. That's a bit what the Dutch historian Rutger Bregman, an inspiration and generational companion, whispers to us: crises and disasters bring out the best in people. That should actually be the case in politics, because we are on the verge of a shortage of beds on intensive care. Companies and entire sectors will implode. People will not only lose their jobs, but also friends and family. Saying goodbye becomes very difficult or even impossible. Colleagues, there is no majority or opposition at such a time. Corona is not a matter of left or right, of purple-green or purple-yellow, of Flemings or Walen. It's a matter of life or death. Mr De Roover, unfortunately, the last nine months have not been a fully-fledged government. It is precisely for this reason that the present cooperation between the government and Parliament is necessary, in particular in order to guide our country through the current crisis. Everyone's welcome, but nine parties are beating their hands together. Even more parties will approve and support the special powers. That is an important signal in all honesty. For us, it is not the time for easy criticism. I also see the points of pain; we also see the problems. However, these problems exist in Belgium, France and the Netherlands. They're not just here with us. Colleagues, evaluation is for later. We can even now agree to set up a post-corona committee in Parliament after the crisis. We will draw the necessary lessons at that time. Madam Prime Minister, we do, however, have a number of concerns that we already want to share today. Firstly, there is the health of many workers who unfortunately cannot stay at home and still have to work, as well as the lack of clarity about it. Secondly, there is the uncertainty of freelancers in the creative and cultural sector. Thirdly, there is the fate of people without strong interest groups. I'm talking about people without a roof over their heads, people without papers and people with psychological problems. Madam Prime Minister, we must do everything. However, if we really want to do everything, we must not leave anyone behind. I promise you that this attitude will be our approach to the dialogue between the government and Parliament. Colleagues, we all want to refer the virus to the history books as soon as possible. However, we must remember very well the period we are going through. She's also very important to the future. She teaches us a lot about the future. She teaches us how important our welfare state is and how our country really goes into lockdown if all volunteers were to strike. She also teaches us how decisive coincidence and bad luck can be for success and failure. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are aware of the latter for our companies. I hope that tomorrow we will also be aware of this for the people in poverty and for the people who are sick. Those who are vulnerable must be better protected. What makes our society healthy should be appreciated more, not only in crisis time and not only, Madam Prime Minister, with the current interim cabinet, but also afterwards. Today there is applause for the people in the healthcare sector. Don't let that recognition be temporary. Colleagues, corona is an unprecedented crisis with a great economic and human toll, but we also see it as an opportunity for all of us, an opportunity for the Belgian political world to get back on track, an opportunity for a more mature relationship between government and Parliament, an opportunity for us to show that cooperation does succeed. In order to tackle this crisis and seize that opportunity, we give you the confidence, but equally clear, equally convinced, equally persistent, we ask you to work together, just to tackle that crisis and seize that opportunity. Colleagues, in times of physical distance, parties and politicians need to get closer together. Solidarity and cooperation is the motto in our hospitals. That must also be the case in Belgian politics and in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 'Union is strength'; our national motto reminds us of this, as always when, in the course of its history, our country has experienced a trial. Our motto reminds us that the time is at unity and gathering. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, and I am speaking from this rostrum to all our fellow citizens, the first antidote to this health crisis is solidarity. Solidarity: a choice, a remote choice of self-restraint, individualism and futile quarrels that cannot be faced with a crisis of global magnitude. In these moments when all the forces of the country are mobilized to enable us to overcome this ordeal, I want here, on behalf of the Socialists, to greet and thank those who, on a daily basis, in the front line, fight against this virus and strive to reverse the pandemic. I mean here, on behalf of my group, our gratitude, as socialists, of course, but above all our human gratitude to the women and men who care for and help the sick and suffering. I am talking about the health care staff as a whole (hospital physicians, general practitioners, nurses, nurses, health care workers, pharmacists, logistics and hospital technicians, and all the others, whether they are in hospital or externally). Thank you all for your dedication to the service of our citizens and the country as a whole. Let us also thank the public service officers who, from the police to the federal, regional, provincial, communal administrations, from public transport to prison officers, from social services to teachers, but also – let's say so – these men and women who are mobilizing, who are with us still today to inform. I am thinking here of the personnel of the written, audiovisual or digital media who cover this crisis despite the danger. They also help – and it's precious – to fight against misinformation, the fake news of which we see how much, in the air of digital, they are a scourge that spreads as quickly as a virus. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also welcome the courage of all our fellow citizens, whether they are in work or not, whether they are wage-earners, traders, students, pensioners or beneficiaries. In essence, we welcome the entire population, who are faced with important measures that are sacrifices. Our people, it is true, become aware of the situation and stand up to it. Our fellow citizens are civic and show their great maturity. They understand that containment is an extremely strong measure, but it is also a gesture of solidarity, a collective response to halt the spread of the pandemic to protect the most fragile, who risk serious complications, or even their lives. The confidence that we will give you to take measures to combat the coronavirus and its dangerous effects is also the choice of solidarity. We will do so because in these hours, what commands is the safeguarding of the nation's vital interests; and what more vital interest than the health of our people? We will give our confidence without hesitation, but we will do so with lucidity and vigilance, which our commitment to democratic values also commands. Strong measures and rapid means will certainly be required to cope with the spread of the disease, to cope with the lack of staff and working conditions in the health chain, and to respond to the social and economic consequences of forced closures of businesses and shops. Yes, the confidence we are going to give to your government, Mrs Wilmès, is the expression of the refusal of withdrawal, the refusal of the facility. It is the choice and the will to overcome our differences to be stronger together against the disease. It is true that we may have to make difficult decisions to ensure the continuity of public services. Because, in order to overcome the crisis, we will not be able to do without public services and achieve that basic services are no longer provided and result in strengthening the crisis rather than relieving it. In speaking of solidarity, there would be much to say about a great absence: Europe, which fails to speak with one voice; which sees some countries adopting health strategies distant from one another, closing their borders unilaterally, taking scattered measures without consultation; which forgets the importance of international cooperation; which left Italy, at the beginning of the crisis, devastated without reacting or developing the necessary solidarity. Yes, we will need a more united Europe. We need it. Not a Europe that sacrifices its fundamental interests on the altar of short-term economic calculations, as tragically shown by the health crisis we are going through. So let us make a demand for Europe from this Parliament: that Europe loosen its fiscal straitjacket of austerity and that the financing of the budgetary efforts that we are going to make is not taken into account in calculating the authorised deficit or the level of public debt. The Commission must act quickly. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will therefore vote on Thursday, 29 March – and this will be a landmark – a confidence in the government and, in a few days, special powers for crisis management. It's not nothing. Everyone is aware of it or should be aware of it. Our Parliament, representing the Nation, the central place of our representative democracy, will entrust part of its constitutional prerogatives to the government. It's a serious decision. We will do so out of necessity, but we will also do so with lucidity, the lucidity of the democrats we are. Special powers cannot and should not be outside the democratic framework and, in particular, respect for fundamental rights and public freedoms. Let us understand, ladies and gentlemen, even if strong security measures are necessary, and as I said, they will be, it will be up to the government to ensure their proportionality in the light of a double injunction: necessity and constitutionality. In this regard, the enabling law should define precisely the scope of special powers, which should be explicitly linked to the management of the health crisis and its economic and social effects for a limited period of time. It is also an opportunity, and the Socialist Group asks, to support our representative democracy at a time when it grants some of its powers to the government, through the contribution of social democracy. Yes, we ask you to ensure the social dialogue and the involvement of the social partners, in particular the representatives of workers' organisations. Even if, at this stage, we have not yet examined this enabling law which will entrust you with the special powers, we must already take note of an important decision, which is a signal, probably insufficient, but a signal all the same: a provision of one billion euros which will equip the interdepartmental reserve. This signal will have to be followed by effective effects, with priorities – and ours are very clear: it is important to allow our hospitals to have the means they need to cope with this health crisis. As such, they will have to be guaranteed significant support, not only in an emergency, but also structurally. Indeed, it is important to answer certain questions and to have the courage to wonder how, in a country such as Belgium, we found ourselves facing a severe risk of a shortage of masks in a hospital setting. We'll have to learn the lessons and see how we got there. Are the cuts imposed on the health care sector not the cause? We think so. However, in the face of this acute crisis, let us look at the solutions and see what strong measures we need to take to stop the pandemic, so that as few Belgians as possible are not infected with the virus, that hospitals can accommodate the sick in good conditions and that we can properly equip the healthcare staff with a view to limiting the number of victims. Palliative decisions have already been made (delays of operations and care) but we need curative measures for hospitals, measures that enable them to cope with the urgency and importance of the situation. Madam Prime Minister, of course, health emergencies require urgent action for hospitals, but at the outset we must also think about resorption and the solution of the negative effects on the economic and social field. Yes, Madam Prime Minister, a diagnosis will soon have to be made to see where we are, because there will be a very large number of workers, too many workers who will find themselves unemployed, who will be sent back to temporary unemployment. So, yes, Madam Prime Minister, I say to you: special powers must first be social powers. In our view, special powers will have to give priority to measures that support citizens and their incomes and, in particular, the income of those who are forced to suspend their activities. Temporary unemployment will be one of the options, but also think of those for whom it will not be enough. I am thinking in particular of domestic aid, some of which could end up with an income of EUR 500. How can we live on 500 euros? There are more than 140,000 of them in our country. Appropriate solutions will have to be found. In this regard, we have proposals to make such as, for example, the extension of the prophylactic leave so that we can integrate the VOCID-19 in order to ensure that we can meet situations which, for the moment, do not return (...) Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the best antidote to this crisis is, as I said, solidarity. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u6	We agreed that it would be possible to intervene in a flexible way, between five and ten minutes. That seems to be compliance with the agreement. Mr Van Grieken has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our time has been severely limited, and the Flemish interest only has five to ten minutes to comment on a declaration of government. One of many examples of how this corona crisis is actually being abused to form a government quickly, quickly. Nevertheless, I would like to use the little time available to us to support, on behalf of the Flemish Interest, all those affected by the corona virus, both those who are ill and those who are currently suffering severe economic losses. The Flemish interest also wants to encourage all men and women who are currently on the front line: the doctors and all the staff of rest and hospitals, the teachers who have to fight distance learning and everyone who is organizing care, but also all the people who work in supermarkets, all the transport workers and dock workers who continue so that the supply in this country remains assured. The Flemish Interest thank you very much. Let me be clear. My party, the Flemish Interest, will support measures necessary to overcome this corona crisis. Those measures, ladies and gentlemen, should have been taken by now. Why is there hardly any testing? Why are people coming from the affected regions not being screened or quarantined? Why are our borders still not closed? Even Angela Merkel's Germany is closing its borders. Why doesn't this country still have a real lockdown? Flemish Interest and the population have been asking for this for more than a week now. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not only support measures in the interests of our health, we will also be able to count on the support of the Flemish interest. I am thinking, for example, of compensation payments or bridging credits for SMEs and small self-employed people, whose water is already in the open. Explore the possibilities of increasing technical unemployment to 100 percent. Otherwise, colleagues, people will get in trouble. They will no longer be able to pay their rent or even buy the necessary funds. This health crisis must not become a social crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Flemish interest is on the side of the people, but not on the side of the government that is being proposed here today, Mrs Wilmès. Because what a difference between those who have worked their asses off for our health over the last few days and those who have played political games over the last few days. What a difference between those who have worked in vain and those who have worked in particular for their own interests. What a difference between those who work for our common good and those who work for their political posts. All you've done over the past few days is abuse this health crisis to hide your administrative incompetence and secure all your political posts. You should be ashamed of yourself. And yet, Mrs Wilmès, you are standing here without shame on the cheeks. You're asking us for two things. You're asking for unity and trust. Well, Mrs Wilmès, good government, I can't give you unity, because you never looked for it. And I don't want to give you confidence, because in the past you have been deeply ashamed of our trust. You're talking about unity, but we're farther off today than ever. You have not only eliminated the two winners of the election, together with 1.4 million votes, you have taken the pants off in public, even the largest party in this country, including 1 million votes. We have to do it! You thus set aside half the Flemings to satisfy your French-speaking liberal power hunger, supported by a left-wing belgic front. You put Flanders aside, ma'am. Especially the region that will be hardest hit by this corona crisis. Flanders has not only the oldest population, it is also the most densely populated part of this country. Flanders is the economic engine. Flemings account for 62% of the population, accounting for 70% of taxes, and they account for 80% of exports. That Flanders, Mrs Wilmès, was of no importance to you. You would push purple-green against the will of Flanders with the support of Open Vld and CD&V. History will be harshly judged by the way in which you have put this government of so-called national unity together. Even a journalist like Guy Tegenbos, who has experienced something here in the Wetstraat in 40 years, said: "I've never seen so many lies, deceit, postage hunting and politics in a week's time. Not 'collaboration makes power' was the motto of the weakest among the Belgian rulers, but 'dirty and dirty tricks give me posts and power'." End of quote. A government of national unity, don't make me laugh. In Antwerp we have a saying that is much older than this corona crisis: 'with all the Chinese but not with these'. Secondly, Mrs Wilmès, today you are asking us to give confidence to the same team that has betrayed the confidence of the people. This government has minimized the crisis and communicated very badly about it. If the government took a measure, it was half-hearted and often too late. Now you ask Parliament to give you carte blanche to continue. This is unacceptable to Flemish interest. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is completely unsuitable and it is not worthy of our trust in dealing with the crisis. For example, on 25 February, the government stated that "measures such as those in northern Italy are not discussed." On 2 March, Mrs De Block said: "Our country is ready to cope with the corona crisis." A day later, she added, "It's just a flu, not an aggressive virus." The reality cannot go further away from the government's statements, because today we have to take action, as in northern Italy. The government was clearly not ready to catch the corona virus and it has become so much more than just a flu. The best example of why this government is not worthy of our trust is the statement by Minister De Block of 5 March: "We only work with recognized suppliers for the supply of high-quality mouth masks." The truth is that 5 million mouth masks were ordered from a Turkish partymate of Maggie De Block who had a starting capital of 1,000 euros and had never submitted an annual accounts. Today you are standing here with the same team as the previous one because you do not think it is the time to make changes. Ladies and gentlemen, the first change that should have been made was the change of Maggie De Block, who has shown in recent weeks that she is not fit for the job of Minister of Health. Mr President, I will conclude. The Flemish Interest will support any measure necessary to overcome this corona crisis. The road will be long and not easy, but together we will be able to defeat this terrible disease. However, there is another disease that we are facing today, a disease that lives here, in Parliament, in the back chambers, in the political elite in this country full of cynicism, hypocrisy and hunger for power, without honour and without moral compass, a disease that is much more persistent than the corona virus. That is why I say to you very clearly: you will not have our trust. Because you've lost that for a long time. We'll only give you a certificate of incompetence. You'll get the bill from the people. I promise you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, Messrs. Deputy Prime Ministers, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of political life as well as of life in general. As a result, trials are growing and others that they cause to sink, prisoners whether they are of their certainty or of their obsessions. In the face of adversity, when it occurs, some and others rise to face up, to seriously and appropriately limit the risks, damage, possible developments, measures to be taken and precautions to be observed. By encircling with scientists of the highest level clearly exposing the health situation, the risk of overflowing and therefore of saturation of our means of treatment, it was necessary to carry out acts of avoidance of the spread in order not to run the risk of having to make vital choices. These actions have been carried out and we welcome the surge in consciousness that has gone beyond regional and community divides. To continue the work and to put in place the health, social and economic rescue plans, we need a government of full exercise, democratic legitimacy and parliamentary control. If we are meeting today in a sparse version of the plenary meeting that prudence requires, it is in order to put in place democratic means of dealing collectively with our duties. We can have all the ambitions and wishes of our government. We should not be here again today. We should not yet question the model, and day-to-day business should be behind us. That's not the case. However, in the face of the situation, it is no longer possible to procrastinate or further pursue an unhealthy political game that removes us from the reality of our people and from the salutary demands. Our group will, of course, vote for confidence in the government. Time is no longer about ideology or mental political construction. We all meet at the same level. We are all at the same level of gravity and those who sought, in differences in productivity, the foundations of Community differentiation are at their expense, because the urgency is the same for all. Whether they are health, social or economic, decisions must be taken; relief of all kinds must be installed. We must face up to the news and prepare for the reconstruction of our various fabrics for the future. For the current economic situation, ten measures to support businesses and the self-employed will be voted on today afternoon in plenary session, at the instigation of Minister Ducrame: VOCID-19 as a reason for temporary unemployment for force majeure; improvement of temporary unemployment for economic reasons; payment plan for employers' contributions; payment plan for VAT, occupational discount and taxes; reduction of advance payments and deferral or exemption of social contributions; relaxation of the bridge right to allow the largest number of affected self-employed to obtain replacement income; non-application in federal markets of penalties in the event of delay in execution. The Finance Committee adopted on Monday the draft law opening the provisional appropriations for the months of April, May and June, incorporating, on the initiative of Minister Clarinval, a first budget provision of EUR 1 billion earmarked exclusively for immediate measures to meet the needs within the strict framework of the coronavirus. A special socio-economic monitoring committee will take stock of the measures on a regular basis. The European Union has mobilised itself and has taken strong financial decisions, not yet at political level or at health level, as a prisoner of its mode of operation: EUR 37 billion for health care, SMEs, the labour market, EUR 8 billion for working capital loans per 100 000 enterprises, which are expected to rise to EUR 150 000 with an additional EUR 20 billion. The European Bank will release EUR 10 billion for SMEs and ask the Commission for the same amount. Our Regions have each taken support measures and have allocated directly mobilizable budgets to support our level of activity. Financial resources are mobilized or put in place at the political level. At the human level, I must salute, with strength and gratitude, the work of the medical and hospital corps, our doctors, our caregivers, our nurses, our laboratory and scientists and all those who, on a daily basis, serve our people, their urgent needs, sometimes at the risk of their health. I also commend the work of our security forces, our magistrates and our military, all mobilized and determined to maintain public order. The good understanding and civicism of everyone should suffice, but if this is not the case, the public authority must be there, and it will be! I will also have, at these difficult times, a thought for all our seniors at home or in retirement homes, in a situation of confinement that can be painful. Let's not forget them! Let's call them regularly, let's take some news so they don't leave them in a state of disrepair. On behalf of my group, I am pleased to see that a great many political parties have shown responsibility and sense by setting aside their differences so that the government can have a large and strong majority. The majority of responsibility, duty, elevation of mind and empathy! These values should at all times lead to political action in the face of selfishness, racism, the foolish feeling of superiority contradicted by history. May we, after this ordeal, regain the profound political sense, the sense of responsibility with respect for each one, with respect for each of the communities, by establishing a government with a solid political foundation to face up to the reconstruction, to face the challenge of reorganizing our State, to ease its tensions and to return to the path of harmonious and exemplary development, which has led our country to the highest levels in the past. Our strengths are many, our talents are many, our diversity is an opportunity! The next six months will be decisive in the fight against coronavirus. Madam Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that we will be able to overcome this challenge with the strength of our cohesion. Prime Minister, we are counting on you and you can count on us!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have been living in another country and in another world for a few weeks. We are all concerned about our health, because we are faced with a virus that is spreading rapidly and that has not yet revealed its secrets. The precautions of the various governments are unseen in peacetime, but absolutely necessary. They are needed to protect everyone, especially the most vulnerable among us. There is no doubt that we are all facing difficult weeks and months. Our health care, which is among the best in the world, will be under pressure. Doctors and nursing staff are in the front line in the fight against the coronavirus. They deserve all our support and appreciation. But also the many others who work professionally or voluntarily deserve that. After all, they all ensure that our society does not fall silent, that children can be taken care of, that our vital economic sectors continue to operate, that we can all buy what we need and that public services are guaranteed. We owe it to them to make every effort, but also every effort, so that they can do so in safe conditions. Colleagues, the crisis presents us with enormous challenges and at the same time offers opportunities to organise our way of life and our economy differently and better. The amount of spontaneous solidarity and resilience that people show is heartwarming. We see how creative people are to adapt their daily lives to the drastically changed circumstances. Businesses and self-employed people are innovative in reorganising their work, including home and telework. I am convinced that this dynamic will not disappear after the corona crisis. At the same time, we must use the crisis to make our economy and enlargement less vulnerable and therefore more resilient and sustainable. Globalisation undoubtedly has many advantages. However, we now also notice disadvantages, such as the dependence of imports from China on production lines in our companies, even for essential medical aid materials such as mouth masks. That is why we must also learn lessons from the crisis. Colleagues, the unprecedented circumstances are not the time to increase political differences. No one has a message today about unnecessary discussions. This moment obliges us to pull the same strings. We owe this to the people, because we must not abandon the victims of the corona crisis, because we must not abandon the families, because we must not abandon the workers affected by economic unemployment, because we must not abandon the self-employed and those in difficulty. That is why governments must act unanimously and vigorously. Cooperation between all public authorities is therefore urgently needed. We must work with our mayors, our governors, with the state governments and with the other European countries. Especially the latter can be much better, because only together will we be able to overcome the corona crisis, not with an all-for-one approach. Madam Prime Minister, like the other governments, your government has not been idle in current affairs in recent weeks. It has taken a series of measures to meet the first needs. You will undoubtedly take further measures. Indeed, the human and economic impact of the corona crisis will be great. Aid in all kinds of areas is therefore absolutely necessary. Not only will the government take support measures, it will also ensure that the aid is used efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen, we had hoped that this crisis would have enabled a full government to be created. People have been expecting that from us for months. It may be that last year's voters had difficulty distributing cards, but that should not be an excuse not to discuss and reach a compromise. Democracy is an organised disagreement, but parties also have the responsibility to come to an agreement. It is not by vetoing that problems will be solved. With vetos, people's purchasing power will not improve. With vetos, the consequences of ageing will not be resolved. With vetos, our efficiency will not increase. With vetos, the budget deficit will not be reduced. We will not solve our institutional problems with vetos, quite the contrary. A fully-fledged and thinned government with full authority and a strong majority in Parliament would have been the best way to restore confidence in politics and to tackle together the many challenges facing our country, because in addition to the corona crisis there are many other problems that require solutions. I regret that such a government was not possible. We would have preferred it to be different, but we cannot and will not, together with those colleagues who support it, avoid our responsibilities. The situation is too serious to allow things to continue. We have a duty to help the victims of the corona crisis to the maximum, not only those who are seriously ill or who are still going to be ill, but also the economic victims. Madam Prime Minister, in your statement, you committed yourself to forming a federal government in the long term with a parliamentary majority in favour of a global and positive project for our country. Of course, tackling the corona crisis must be the first priority for you and the other members of the government, but the formation of a full government with a strong majority must also be a priority. That's what people expect from you, but people don't expect from you alone. They expect that from us, too, colleagues. They expect all those who have political responsibility to cooperate. We must not disappoint them. Madam Prime Minister, you also announced that you would ask Parliament for six months' power of attorney to deal with the corona crisis. It's not the first time a government has asked for powers of attorney in crisis time. In exceptional circumstances, powers of attorneys are justified, because the government must be able to act quickly and forcefully, but powers of attorneys are not for us a blank cheque. They must be limited in time and to cope with the consequences of the corona crisis. It is therefore a good thing that the government will proactively involve all the political groups that will support the powers of attorney in the consultation on the measures to be taken to implement those powers of attorney, and it is also good that it will evaluate them after three months. Madam Prime Minister, on Tuesday you asked Parliament's confidence for six months to do what needs to be done in the fight against the corona crisis. You will have that confidence from our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u10	Mr President, given the seriousness of the situation, I shall make my speech in two parts, in French and then in Dutch, so as not to alter languages too much. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious. The challenge is immense for our society and it is first and foremost a touch of hope in the tremendous momentum of solidarity that is passing through our entire population. Some used to say, "Man is a wolf for man," but in the last few days we have seen that this is completely wrong. Man is not a wolf at all for man. Man is a man of solidarity with man. We saw him every night, at 8:00 p.m., when people applaud the medical corps that are fighting today at the front of the fight against the disease. It has been seen by all these spontaneous initiatives of people who themselves make masks for the medical profession, whether they are workers from Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia; undocumented workers who also help in all these struggles. We have seen him in all this tremendous solidarity in our society. The situation will not be simple. I would like to point out right away a positive point for the PTB: the whole political world, and especially the federal government, has taken the bull by the horns. It is a positive point to have today a single line of command in relation to the cacophony encountered. Madam Prime Minister, you have the support of the PTB in relation to this: to have a clear line, to be able to say clearly who should do what in our society. It was time to have that cohesion. It was also time to demonstrate the absurdity of all these completely scattered skills. We weren't there anymore. Nine ministers competing with each other. We already knew it with the climate, now we know it with health. It is clear that the federal unity, that only one Minister of Health, in order to be effective at such times, but also at other times, was something essential. For us, this is an important point. For that, you have our support, Madam Prime Minister. We will be a constructive party, even if we have not been consulted by traditional parties. We will be constructive because health care is important to us. Remember, when we came with the White Blouse Fund, some called us populists, etc. Yes, that $400 million was needed to help the medical profession, to help nurses in their fight. Of course, we were constructive and, together, we managed to get those 400 million, together with the trade unions. It's important. We are obviously constructive in supporting all the measures that will be taken today, yesterday and tomorrow, such as the closure of non-essential stores. You obviously have our support, Madam Prime Minister, because these measures are urgent. The PTB will also be a constructive party, active on the ground, not just words, especially acts, as you know, with our 250 doctors, 250 nurses and medical nurses for the people; these PTB doctors who work every day, give everything they can to fight this disease. Madam Prime Minister, today you are calling for a vote in favour of blind trust. We cannot grant that to you. We will be and must remain a constructive voice of opposition in this debate, because there will still be debates. Yes, we need to discuss why we do not yet have the masks to protect the medical profession. Problems remain and they need to be raised in order to improve in the midst of the crisis. Yes, there is a debate on the issue of widespread containment and it will continue, Madam Prime Minister. I understand your decision to impose confinement, but it's not widespread. I don't understand. Why do non-economic sectors continue to produce? My voicemail continues to receive messages from people who tell me: "But, Raoul, I work in construction!" Let's talk about it, colleagues! Today, we are rightly providing a minimum service, but here in the House, a construction project is under way. You see them, those building workers who continue to work against each other, discussing and coordinating each other. Why are these sectors that are not essential to the economy, such as building, continuing their work? Why is it not true for industry workers that many employees and senior executives are interested in? We cannot cover this double standard, Madam Prime Minister. Why should domestic workers continue to work at this point? Why don't we take measures for these workers? I get a lot of messages about this. This debate, Madam Prime Minister, must be able to continue. We cannot give you blind confidence in this area, because we do not share all your options. In short, this debate must continue. It is necessary for the virus not to spread, but also for all our allocations and resources to be allocated to sectors that need frosts and masks. I'm obviously talking about hospitals. By allowing other branches to continue their production, we continue to disperse all our forces. Madam Prime Minister, as I have told you, we will not be able to give you blind confidence, but we will be more nuanced with regard to special powers. You're gonna ask them. It is clear to us that certain procedures need to be speeded up. When we talk about the need for a building permit to build a hospital, it is obvious that it will have to be given. This is why calls for tenders will have to take place more quickly. Of course, we must be able to take urgent action. However, I would regret that the debate in this Parliament cannot continue. I see that the Ghent Communal Council has decided to guarantee the debates through digital channels. The opposition will therefore always be able to express itself. That is why we will abstain from special powers. The situation is very bad. The PVDA will, of course, be very constructive. It seems important to me today to show how solidarity in our society once again becomes a great value. People sometimes say that there is selfishness, but that is not the case at all. People give a round of applause at 8:00. People make masks for our caregivers. All that solidarity comes back today in a fantastic way. Madam Prime Minister, you will be able to count on the solidarity and constructive attitude of the PVDA. We are a constructive party. You have our support because you want to formulate a clear and efficient policy and not go into a cacophony with nine ministers. That clear policy is very much needed. Moreover, I do not understand why there are still political parties today saying that we can work well with nine ministers responsible for health. We already knew before the climate that this was not efficient. Let us now opt for one minister for public health. This is important for solidarity. You will be able to count on the constructive attitude of the PVDA. You know. We have supported the additional budget of EUR 1 billion. We will continue to support that. You can count on a constructive attitude from the PVDA. Two months ago, when we came up with our white money fund, it was said that the PVDA came up with populist proposals. Today, hundreds of millions of euros have to go to that sector. We will cooperate constructively on these solutions. We are not just a party of words, but also of deeds. We work with eleven medical practices in the field, with 25,000 patients today, with 250 doctors and 250 nurses from the PVDA at Medicine for the People. It is important for us to be active on the ground. It has to be done. However, we cannot give you blind confidence, Madam Prime Minister. There is a need for a final constructive opposition vote in this debate. We don't agree with everything. Look at what happened to Mrs. De Block and the masks that still aren't there for our medical corps. It can't be. There must be a debate on this. Take the debate about the lockdown, the non-final lockdown. How is it that non-essential sectors are still working today? I entered Parliament this morning. We are working here with minimum services not to spread the virus, but in Parliament's court, construction workers are simply working on it as if nothing was wrong. What kind of decision is that? My mailbox is full of messages from workers asking why the highest frameworks are allowed to telework and they have to work in the factories. Let us decide that the non-essential sectors will stop working today so that the virus will not spread, but that all our energy will go to helping our medical corps. I think this is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, these debates will certainly continue. Madam Prime Minister, with regard to giving power of attorney to the government, we will be more nuanced. Decisions must be made quickly. That's obvious. That's the story we're going with. However, we do not understand why the debate in Parliament could not continue. Let us take steps to ensure that the debate continues. In the city council in Ghent, for example, the debate continues electronically. Madam Prime Minister, that is why we will abstain from voting on the powers of attorney because we cannot agree to the suspension of parliamentary democracy for a few months. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone, the people and the medical profession a great deal of courage. Together, we will be able to beat the virus!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u11	Thank you, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u12	I am using this brief moment to point out that I have had a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure distributed, to allow us to meet, taking into account the difficulties of quorum and so on, and to make use of videoconferencing possibilities. I would ask you to have your technicians or group secretaries take a good look at this text so that we can approve it next week in the Rules of Procedure Committee and in the Reform of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u13	Mr Lachaert has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the corona virus is holding our country in its grip. Not only our country; the images from Italy, where ambulances and military vehicles drive back and forth with the dead of this disaster, are burned on our retina. The situation in our country today is not at all of the same order of magnitude. We should also be happy because our health care system is well developed and hopefully we are ready to deal with what is coming to us. Together, we face a very difficult task. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank everyone who is helping people in this country. In hospitals, in residential care centres, in many places where people need help. Of course, everyone would like to build security and stay at home, as requested by the government, but some people do not have that choice. For some jobs one has to be present to make sure that others are helped or that the store shelves remain full of food and that the whole chain does not stop. In this respect, I would like to thank everyone who, on behalf of my group, will work for that today and in the coming weeks. In the meantime, we are trying to work out measures, to inform people. But the chaos is a fact. Even with the measures taken by the government, some of which are on our agenda this afternoon, including the bridging allowance for the self-employed and traders, which is very important for people who have to close their cases today. They have their fixed costs and they have to live on, don't they? We'll see to it that they get a bridge fee. But even then, with all the measures that are being taken and which are also changing, there are a lot of questions for those people. I believe that everyone who is politically active, all of us, but also people who are locally active, will have their hands full these days by playing helpline for a lot of people who have questions about what can or can't do anymore. We must do our utmost to inform people as well as possible and to manage this difficult situation. There is no easy or quick way out of this difficult situation. She's gonna hold on for a while. It is therefore the duty of each of us to comply effectively with the rules that are in place to ensure that this situation takes as long as possible. You see, we're doing our best here to keep our distance. Help each other and stay in your quarters, as our Minister of Social Affairs says. The term "digital gathering" has just fallen. It is also our duty, as far as possible, to monitor and adjust the situation as closely as possible. Colleagues, these are special times. However, a crisis such as this also offers opportunities, for example for coherency, cooperation and the transcendence of smaller interests, such as party interests. As a political observer, because this weekend I was a spectator, I could only look with a lot of horror, along with many others, at the behaviour of some participants in the discussion. Now that the opportunity was there to create a government that would radiate national unity, that opportunity was unfortunately lost, due to political games, profiling urge or party interest. That's not gonna get anywhere. And it is a shame that citizens who now have important questions every day have to watch them. So I'm not a happy man when I look at some statements from the past week. The rigid political Rue de la Loi now has to go through another creative scenario to bring our country to solutions. The crisis before us can only be dealt with by a government with full powers. A government in current cases with powers of attorney would not suffice. We do not even know whether Parliament will be able to meet physically in the next few weeks. What then should happen if decisions are to be taken or if laws are to be prepared which are not within the areas envisaged today? We are talking today about economic measures, about traders who have to close down, about technical unemployment for workers, we are discussing the supply of mouth masks, which is a shortage in the care sector, which we urgently need and are waiting for. Tomorrow, however, it may well be about the supply of electricity or other structural problems in our country, which we did not foresee today. What should happen if we are not able to play briefly with a government with full powers and a Parliament that would be limited in its way of meeting? That is why I do not agree with the colleagues who say that it would be enough to leave the government in business and give it a number of powers of attorney. Parliament would therefore no longer exercise any control over that government in current cases. We would not even be able to put forward a motion of censure on the government. We can also only ask a government in current cases limited questions about its policy. It is not really capable of developing new policies. Now, under the leadership of our Prime Minister, if she gets the confidence this afternoon, that government will have to be fully accountable to Parliament. Moreover, we do not give a blank cheque. That's obvious. Together with the parties who will approve the proxy decisions, the government will be followed. I therefore hope that all those who have committed themselves to this issue will continue to play their part in this. It is also clear to me that the government that we want to give the confidence this afternoon is not a preliminaries of this or that coalition. It is a government that does the things that citizens ask and they have to do, to ensure that the country can continue to go crazy, that care can be provided and that the economy and essential things can happen, so that supplies in our country are assured. It's a government that does what it has to do to deal with the crisis. The follow-up will be done by a number of democratic parties, who jointly want to approve the decisions to let the government do the same. It is also clear that Madam Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès has pointed out that the current situation is valid for six months. Then we will again judge what needs to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, by that time, I really hope that there will be a different atmosphere among the political groups and parties, which will enable us to create something more constructive than what has been shown over the past week. Every democratic party must be aware that with such behaviour people lose all faith in politics. Collega's, more is in us. Our group will give the government the confidence for six months. I call on all the democratic groups in this House to put the general interest above self-interest, country before party, in order to make clear agreements during the political dialogue that we will be holding and in which we must support each other. Our common goal, which is to get out of the current crisis in our country in the best possible way, must always be borne in mind. We must ensure that healthy businesses and traders do not go overboard. We must ensure that public health can be restored and guaranteed. We have to make sure people don't lose their jobs. We must not abandon them, but we must provide them with answers. We must show solidarity. Just as everyone in our country is now showing solidarity and trying to help all those who have needs, we must also stand for solidarity. Together, we will be able to overcome the current difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the world is in crisis, Europe is in crisis, our country is in crisis, perhaps the biggest crisis our country has ever experienced. The corona virus threatens our health, our economy and our safety. The virus makes no distinction between rich and poor, young and old, between country or language. Everyone can be affected, everyone is concerned and we all have to take care of each other. It is therefore important that all citizens follow the security measures consistently and thus save the lives of others. That's why it's so beautiful that many volunteers today are massively committed to helping others in these difficult times. That's why all the people in the line of fire today deserve our greatest respect. They are committed to others every day, even though they are at greater risk. Even if they're worried, we can count on them every day. The Belgians show themselves not only brave, but also solidarity. It is only with solidarity that we are going through the crisis together. Colleagues, this solidarity requires a strong government, a strong government that organises good health care, a strong government that guarantees security, a strong government that takes the necessary measures, not just today, but always. Doctors and care staff need enough mouth masks and other protective equipment. Hospitals need enough beds and medicines so they can help everyone. Businesses and staff are asking to protect their income in these times of crisis. All these people are counting on a strong government for that. Like I said, we're in a crisis. Exceptional times require exceptional measures. People expect political action and action to protect every citizen. Your question about our trust and our powers of attorney, Madam Prime Minister, focuses on people's health and safety. That is why there is also a limitation in time; therefore there is also a limitation in themes that are important for dealing with the crisis: public health, social security, labour market, security and economy. In this way, the government indicates that it does not want to take advantage of the situation. The sp.a Group has deliberately chosen to support the power of attorney law and the motion of confidence. Both are needed in this crisis. After all, we do not want to run the risk of unnecessary time being lost in full crisis by procedures to take urgent action. That time is needed to save people's lives and to protect people's health and safety. Powers of attorney and trust are limited to dealing with the crisis. For sp.a, everything must now be done to ensure the health and safety of the people. That is now the essence, a solution to the crisis. That is what politics must deal with today. Take an example of those who have shown responsibility from the outset and have not waited for politics. I am thinking of our doctors and care staff, our shopkeepers, our postmen, our housekeepers, our butchers and our bakers, our agents and our guards, our couriers and our drivers, our garbage collectors, our journalists, our teachers, our child carers and our employees who are not allowed to stay home and go to work every day with a frightened heart. I am also thinking of all citizens who see the sense of urgency, because the most important way of not spreading the virus massively is to have as little contact as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not many here today, but I believe that together we can applaud loudly for all those who are holding our country straight today. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, the confidence we give you today is not a blank cheque. We want a solution to the crisis that is holding our country in its grip. That is why the motion will be approved and we will also give our full support to a government whose sole task over the next six months is to tackle the corona crisis decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u16	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing that we now agree with, it is that the situation is very serious. The latter requires that we act quickly, with discernment and with all possible force. For this, we need a government with sufficient weight to meet the country's expectations. One can obviously sting to the infinity and even polemic in a sterile way. The comments of certain policies here or on social networks in particular, going so far as to speak of "coronadictature", shocked me deeply. There are times when we have to silence the differences and focus on what is essential, what is vital. Our duty is to deal with the pandemic tsunami that strikes us. We believe that, in order to act effectively, as effectively as possible, we must be united around the only objective we all pursue: to save as many lives as possible and to do everything to avoid the horrific Italian dilemma of having to choose who to treat. That's why the CDH will trust your government. The trust we give you is neither unlimited nor blind. It is a confidence for a limited period of time, within a specific framework and with a well-identified objective: the pandemic. We give you our confidence in the future because we think that, together, it is possible to do better. And we call on you, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to pay even more attention to the realities on the ground. To act against the pandemic is to ensure the optimal care of patients. This is the priority of all priorities. For this, you must make every effort to support, to make available all the necessary equipment so that the caregivers can exercise in the best possible conditions at home, in the hospital, in a nursing home, in any place. Doctors, nurses, caregivers, pharmacists, dentists, physiotherapists, labs, technicians, no care givers can be forgotten! I'm thinking of the long-awaited masks, but not just. Let me share with you here the plight of caregivers such as, for example, home nurses. The procedures prohibited the distribution of masks. Yet they are on the front line, in direct contact with patients. They can't help them in virtual. It's up to you to correct the shot. Other equipment will be missing. In hospitals today, intensive care units are already pushing the walls. Doctors are already trying to be creative to multiply the breathers. This is the case in my region, which is indeed one of the most affected regions of the country. You need to anticipate the needs and make the already extremely burdensome task of caregivers as much as possible. The days ahead are likely to be more and more difficult for them. I really want you to listen to all the Belgians. In essence, this is what they also asked you: to strengthen support for all caregivers. The Belgians symbolically asked you last night at 8:00 p.m., applauding all these caregivers. Acting against the pandemic to curb the virus also means anticipating and adapting the strategy. Some questions arise in this regard. How can containment be effectively guaranteed over time? How can we at European level prevent decisions by neighbouring countries from weakening Belgium? The Netherlands, for example, has chosen a completely different health strategy. Madam Prime Minister, at European level, it is up to you to get in touch as quickly as possible, because we cannot have different strategies in neighbouring countries at this point! It's bad for everyone! There are other questions about the strategy, including much more massive screening to avoid recurrences when containment can be gradually lifted. To act in this pandemic is also to do everything possible to reduce its consequences and to support all those who are affected and swept away in their daily lives by the loss of their jobs, by the reduction or loss of their income, by their activity which is collapsing and which has been stopped as a result of the government's decisions. In families, some have to keep children because of closed schools. Some lose the savings of a life. They're worried about themselves and their families, they're worried about their future. They are employees, self-employed, civil servants and pensioners. There are many sectors and it is impossible to mention them all. You have taken a number of positive steps and we support them and the Regions. But calls for help are increasing and you will need to take much stronger and broader steps to take these diverse situations into account with the greatest possible flexibility. The road will be long and difficult, but lights point to the horizon. The first tests of vaccines and medicines have begun. Containment can produce effects. Large companies adapt their production to the needs. Researchers at the University of Namur have developed a new screening test that allows reagents to be dispensed with. So many hopes in a difficult situation! In Belgium, I see caregivers who dedicate themselves without limits. As always! I also see many people in multiple sectors – while they are probably worried about their health – who continue their jobs to allow us to simply continue our lives. I am thinking of the police, security, logistics, food, transport, communication, but it is impossible to mention them all. Let them all be deeply thanked. I also see that many Belgians are doing what they can to protect each other, with a lot of good will. We all have a duty to save lives as caregivers, but also as citizens by respecting the rules. Indeed, each of us needs others to get better. We are all allies of each other. Moreover, the term "social dissatisfaction" should be renamed "physical dissatisfaction", because if the VOCD-19 is to keep us physically away from each other, this is not really the case socially: telephone calls; exchanges through all means of communication and social networks; small voluntary helpers for the most fragile, the elderly, friends and neighbours - all beautiful little things in life. It's our strength to all of us. Being lonely in no way prevents us from being in solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u17	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have to deal with events of an unprecedented scale. I believe that the political generations in charge today have never had to face such a danger. A danger not only to the older or the more fragile, but also to everyone. Indeed, let us recall here: there are, and will be, young victims of this virus. The test we face is formidable because it requires efforts against the current of what is the social nature of the human being. She asks us to stop seeing our families and friends, to retreat home. It asks us to save lives by restricting ourselves in our everyday lives, in a world where freedom is a fundamental achievement. Everyone has to do their part. In this forum, too, I would like to thank caregivers, general practitioners and specialists, nurses - in the hospital, in the home or at home - pharmacists or dentists, but also police forces, firefighters, cashiers, factors, garbagemen, prison officers; all those who, by virtue of their public or private profession, are forced to remain in the field. All of them are now up to the situation. The minimum that we all have to do, whatever our place in this House, is to be done, too. Our first duty is to empower health-care personnel to fight by providing them, of course, with sufficient masks and respirators, and quickly; by providing them with reinforcements to prevent the time when they will be overwhelmed; and by providing them with time through containment measures that can effectively slow down this epidemic. The first social contract is the one that physically protects the members of the community, but rarely it makes as much sense as it is today. It is to a whole population that we ask to restrict its freedoms so that we can save thousands of lives. Everyone now understands that the price to be paid is necessary. We must also, of course, help indirect social victims, because it is a tsunami that is going down on our economy. Not only the horeca sector, but also the suppliers, tourism, culture and all the employees or self-employed whose activity was stopped net by the epidemic or by containment measures. The federal state and the federated entities will have to find ways to help them. These means will have to be commensurate with the damage, i.e. exceptional. Of course, I welcome the release of an exceptional provision of $1 billion, as well as the measures already taken by the federal government and the federated entities. But we already see it, it won't be enough. Let us dare to speak of exemption from social security contributions or commercial rents rather than their carry-over. Let us dare to ask for the solidarity of the banking sector, especially in mortgages to help the most disadvantaged. For we know, these weeks, these months will be a period of nothingness in terms of activity. It would therefore be normal for this to be the case for the charges as well. And then let us think of the weakest: the homeless who do not have a home where to confine themselves; the asylum seekers whom we cannot decently abandon to their fate and whom I ask you, Madam Prime Minister, not to sacrifice; and then simply those who are in danger of being held in solitary confinement. Yes, the work is huge and obviously, the government will have little energy to concentrate on anything other than the fight against this virus. Ladies and gentlemen, we have turned into a dimension where the usual political categories are no longer valid. One of the most fundamental principles in politics is to be able to distinguish between one's opponents and one's enemies. An opponent is a competitor in the democratic field, with whom we cross iron, but according to commonly accepted rules and in normal times. The enemy is the one who wants to destroy you and is a threat to the system itself. In democracy, when the threat is global, existential, there should be no more adversary; there should be only one enemy, here, the coronavirus. Logic, common sense, but simply the sense of the state, require support, Madam Prime Minister, in this exceptional period and for a limited mandate, because it is the health of the inhabitants that is at stake. Because there's no time to waste. So yes, we can be upset that a full-fledged government with a real majority has not come. I, too, regret it, like all those who have exhausted themselves with proposals in the last few months. How can we not see that today the essential thing is elsewhere? How can we not realize that the threat we face requires putting aside any bitterness, resentment or simply any other interest? How, in a word, can we not join a national union, when, never in the recent history of our country, the general interest has been so easy to identify, namely to save lives? The time for reviews, particularly on health care funding or on masks, will come later. Our first duty here today is to help caregivers on the ground and protect the population. Any other consideration is secondary and even a little painful. I believe that history will judge rather harshly those who have preferred cynical and political game to the general interest. In his novel La Peste, Albert Camus writes: "From that moment on, it is possible to say that plague was our business to all. Until then, despite the surprise and concern brought to them by these singular events, each of our fellow citizens had continued his occupations, as he had been able, in his ordinary place. And no doubt, it had to go on. But when the doors were closed, they realized that they were all, and the narrator himself, caught in the same bag and that it had to be arranged." Here we are, ladies and gentlemen. The doors are closed but we're in the same bag. The plague is there: that of the virus, of course, but also that of selfishness, of indifference, of withdrawal on oneself, which can facilitate its spread. It is an existential crisis, not only because it threatens lives but also because it forces us, in order to get out of it, to become a society and to become a body. I am pleased that our federal state has thus regained verticality. The federal government - it is its role - is in close coordination with the federated entities within the National Security Council. This crisis not only reminds us that there is still a federal state, but that it is indispensable. It is in times of crisis that what is precious emerges. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, it is a long time ago, in reality, that our rich countries, enjoying a certain well-being in the eyes of the rest of the planet, have not had to experience such fear, such discomfort – even if, one day, these inconveniences will appear very little in the light of history, in the light of what other human beings have to endure every day. It is a trial that we all face together and that, at the end of the day, will first be revealing about ourselves. May we thus, on the day we leave, also realize the chance that is ours, despite everything, to live in a country, certainly with its shortcomings, with its precariousness and its blockages, but which has always maintained and defended a health system that is both efficient and accessible! Let us take into account our chance and be up to the challenge of preserving what is more precious, that is, life! For this reason, Madam Prime Minister, it is with conviction that not only will my Défi group give you confidence in managing this crisis, but we will help you in the best of our ability, within the next six months, to help protect the people of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u18	Mr Dedecker has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me first say that I am a little ashamed of myself for not seeing this crisis coming and reacting too late. It's no excuse, but there's a reason for it. Twenty years I've been wandering around here in this House of suspicion. I have to be honest: that can also infect the mind. Mr Lachaert, you may remember from your father that in 1999 Open Vld en purple came to power with the dioxin crisis. This crisis killed 20 million chickens and cost the Treasury half a billion euros. The only deaths there were at that time were caused by the suicide of some poultry farmers. Meanwhile, I have seen fipronil, creutzfeldt-jakob, SARS, bird and pig flu passing through. In 2009-2010 we knew the Mexican flu. Even then, we gave the government powers of attorney. According to the Court of Auditors, this cost EUR 85 million. Nine million unused vaccines were destroyed and recently 4.7 million rotting mouth masks were discovered in the army. So I don't want to use it as an excuse, but I've always been suspicious of authority. Because I was wrong, mea culpa. However, I am not only ashamed of myself. I have, above all, a substitute shame for the filthy and macabre game of power that has taken place in this form of government. Machiavelli could have been teaching you the last few weeks. You all probably know, especially on the Flemish side, the Eminence Grise by De Standaard, journalist Guy Tegenbos. The colleague already referred to what he wrote: "I've been following politics for 40 years and have never seen so many lies, cheating, postage hunting and pranks in one week." That's why I'm a little surprised at all the emotional speeches I've heard so far. Let's recapitulate. While the population was hoarding and anxiously waited for the virus, the country's largest party reached out to Wallonia's largest party. So there was an agreement to form a fully-fledged emergency government to start the war, as I heard our chairman say so beautifully on De Afsing on TV. In politics, however, words are as volatile and toxic as chloroform and a Brutus lurks around every corner. I saw Mr Magnette on RTL on Sunday morning deny everything that was decided the night before. In a country in crisis, there is no right to ignore democracy. Green, CD&V, sp.a. and Open Vld take part at the expense of democracy in a Walloon discourse of discourses for the Flemish majority. You sell your souls to a minority government with a Flemish minority. It is even unseen and incomprehensible to me that socialists and ecologists applaud a government with ten liberal ministers. Their only connection glue is the mucus of a flu virus. The remaining governments Michel II, Wilmès I and Wilmès II, with 38 out of 150 seats, are the smallest minority governments Belgium has ever known. They are the only minority governments to which the country's largest political party is not a part, apart from the Spaak II government. However, Spaak II never gained Parliament's confidence and was only 18 days between the swearing-in and the vote of confidence in the regime. Your government, Mrs Wilmès, is the first minority government in 190 years of Belgian history to receive special powers from an empty Parliament. Whoever controls fear and emotions always gets absolute power. We are going to fight the biggest crisis of this century with an undemocratic lilliput government. We must avoid massive economic damage and then repair it with a tolerated government of debt magnets and tax huggers. Mrs Wilmès, as far as the measures against the virus itself are concerned, you will have my support, however small. I am even pleased that the nuisance premium has suddenly been discovered. It is a law of my own, from 2004, which I got through thanks to Mrs Laruelle's support at the time, because all the left-wing parties here today were emotionally opposed to it. It took two years to get that law passed by the Senate at the time. It is a small detail, but it is often necessary to know history. Madam Prime Minister, you are now asking for confidence on the basis of a mini-government declaration, which states as little as possible, and without a government agreement. The limits of your government's powers are so vague that nothing stands in the way of completeness. Behind the mouth mask of corona lies a Walloon political strategy of Flemish subjugation and regional sole domination. If the mouth masks will fall after six months, Vivaldi will probably not play his four seasons, but his Gloria, also worth listening to. The Flemish MEPs can then hum The Stupid of Portici. A decapitated Parliament in quarantine, represented by a handful of group leaders, must now enter into the debate on a haiku-type government statement. Mr President, I must congratulate you. You are the crafty, crafty architect of this anti-Flemish coalition. You probably know all the tricks of the foor. By naming Mrs. Wilmès as a formatter and making her prime minister take an oath with the King, contrary to all agreements, which they now all forget, this team can in principle stay on until 2024. Only a motion of censure can send her back. Your party, the Open Vld, Mr President, came to power in the dioxin crisis and remains there now thanks to the corona crisis. This is not a full government, colleagues. It is a minority government of MR, Open Vld and CD&V with tolerance from PS, sp.a, Ecolo, Groen, DéFI and cdH led by the biggest puppeteer in this debate, Paul Magnette. The tolerance support is, as it were, limited to corona measures which are immediately converted into powers of attorney, which in reality means nothing anymore. Worse still, your government, the minority government of Wilmès II, will have all the power for three to six months. Can it be even more undemocratic for parliamentary democracy? You are asking for confidence, Madame, for parties who no longer enjoy the confidence of the people themselves. If we can believe last week's opinion poll, the two Flemish nationalist parties together achieve the absolute majority and all the others barely double the electoral threshold. Then don't tell me I didn't warn you. Cynical can hardly be more political. Anyone who doesn't get sick from the corona virus is likely to be affected by current politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u20	We have come to the end of the first series of statements. I give the floor to Madam Prime Minister for her reply. May I ask if there are any Members in the Half-Round who would like to replicate after the Government's reply? Is there any interest in that in order to organise that? We will wait and listen to the Prime Minister for the Government's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, protecting the health of our fellow citizens is our main objective, our duty, our responsibility, but also our commitment. That's what we all need to mobilize, all the time, in the hours, days and weeks that come. In this unprecedented situation, it is absolutely necessary to cooperate. Each of us has a role to play, not only to protect ourselves, but also to protect our neighbors and other citizens. The sense of responsibility, solidarity, courage, but also the confidence in our ability to rise again, to get stronger out of this trial, must drive us more than ever. I realise how difficult new measures announced on Tuesday evening are and how much they have an impact on our daily lives. But given the urgency and seriousness of the situation, these sacrifices are indispensable. In this fight of dedication, the self-denial of the health care staff, researchers, child care workers, cashiers and cashiers, of all those whom I do not name here because the list would be long, of those who invest themselves daily to help others and continue to make our country run, is exemplary. Governments, parliaments and all other entities in the country also have an essential role to play. They must work hand in hand, in mutual trust, in order to make the right decisions at the right time and ensure that they are implemented in a smooth and timely manner. In this regard, I would like to point out that each and every one of us, by going to work in the morning, regardless of the areas of activity, are just as many links in the same chain, a human chain that ultimately allows, directly or by a little longer paths, to ensure that the best care can be given to our patients. The confidence between the government and Parliament must be formalised by a vote of confidence. In a few hours, you will be asked to vote on the motion of confidence. This must be based on an essential principle, giving the current government, through the vote of confidence, the full capacity to manage this crisis successfully, no more and no less. For example, we commit ourselves to managing the health situation during the corona crisis, to managing and maintaining public order and to alleviating the socio-economic problems of wage-earners and the self-employed. We must also prepare, step by step, economic development and relance as soon as the crisis is over. The vote of confidence is not a blank-sing. It does not allow the government to evade its obligation of transparency vis-à-vis Parliament. I am committed to limiting the government's action outside of the issues related to the management of the coronavirus crisis. The other aspects will be managed within a framework similar to that of day-to-day business. In addition, I will come back at the latest in six months to ask for your confidence again. The issue of special powers should also be addressed in terms of public health, social affairs, security and the economy. These are all subjects that will be clarified and worked out with the various representatives of the political parties before they will, of course, be put to the vote in the Chamber of Representatives. The implementation of the special powers will in any event have to be monitored by Parliament at the end of this period. As I have just said, confidence between Parliament and this government will have to be demonstrated by the formal vote on a motion this afternoon. This vote of confidence is part of the great union that I have called for, in this desire to work together constructively and in the interest of all. Each of us will have to show composure, a great capacity for work, a critical sense but also courage, setting aside strategies and statements that divide us, while we need, more than ever, to be united. Everyone will have to show self-control, calmness, great work force, critical insight and certainly courage. We must abandon strategies and declarations that could divide us, whereas we must be united more than ever. We measure our responsibility. I'm measuring mine. You will find in my person and throughout the government a loyal and listening partner, but also focused on his task and fully mobilized and determined to carry out his mission. You, too, take care of yourself and keep taking care of others. Take good care of yourself and continue to take good care of the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u22	Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u23	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I have heard you say that control will only be exercised after the expiry of the powers of attorney. I do not think we should let that pass as democrats. We give rapid power of attorney to a minority government through a special law in emotional times. I believe that a committee should be set up this afternoon to monitor this minority government every week. We are not going to have figs after Easter because we are only going to check afterwards what this government is doing with these powers of attorneys. Madam Prime Minister, I regret that you have not repeated it now, but you said in your declaration that all the parties who would support you will be involved in your power of attorney. I have not heard you repeat that today, so I fear that my party is in favour of the effort and that all your words, such as cooperation, sense of responsibility, solidarity and unity, should be spoken for the often being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u24	Mr President, I did not originally intend to reply, but I would be sorry if the replies were limited to Mr Van Grieken's speech. It is clear to everyone that there are special times in which our work must obviously continue as far as possible. I also said in my speech earlier that this is very important for our group. However, there is something more important than that. I honestly do not understand why some colleagues have talked so often about themselves today, so often about their own party and so often about the future coalition. At the same time, staff in the Chamber are working, who this morning, like many other countrymen, have left with a small heart and wondered if the virus will catch them today. It's not about the N-VA today, it's not about Vivaldi, it's not about purple-green or purple-yellow. It's about a common enemy, and that's the corona virus. There has been talk of opportunism and cynicism, but I do not feel addressed in this respect at all. I am pleased that socialists, ecologists, CdH and DéFI colleagues say that they do not need ministerial posts in these exceptional times to fight against corona. That is exactly the same, Mr van Grieken, as what people are doing in healthcare today. Our doctors and paramedics aren't asking for a pay raise to fight the crisis either. In party political terms and for cynics, it may be a risk to tolerate a government, but as a human being, I cannot make any other choice. That risk is small beer compared to the risk that people are walking on the premises today. It is very much awaiting what this will be for the next six months. It is a democratic experiment, but I think we can handle it, that this country is capable of doing so. Enough people, nine parties with four million voters in this country, can do this together. Then we will succeed, and then we will not be distracted by people who are currently engaged in party politics. That's a promise I can make.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u25	Mr President, I find this rather hypocritical. I hear here the lesson of people who say that we must now all work together. Although I can only make a very small contribution, I am the first to be willing to work together. What I wanted to denounce is the macabre political game that your party has played. I hear colleagues here talking about "connecting." You have a mouthful of it, but the game you've played in recent weeks compared to the biggest game in this country is a missed opportunity. When one goes to war, one does so with an emergency government, with as many people as possible. The first to veto was you. I heard your party, I heard Mr Nollet on Sunday morning at RTL, when he joined Mr Magnette. You walk on the hand of Ecolo, because otherwise you have virtually no right to exist at 8 %. I have even less, but stop playing the lesson of connecting every time, while you are the biggest party in excluding the largest Flemish party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u26	Mr President, I will not talk about the past. What interests us is victory for the future. I think everything has been said politically. We will not add to that in the reply. What interests me is that we continue to debate the future. The mandate is still very broad. I hear he understands the fight against coronavirus. The health side is obviously urgent and I have already said that in this respect you have the constructive support of the PTB. However, many other questions will arise, particularly at the economic level. This will not be the first or last crisis on which the debate will focus: "Who will pay?" We'll see about it in six months. I do fear that once again the richest will be spared and that the poorest and the workers will be victims. This debate will remain driven by the left against the right. We must stop saying that this kind of debate will not take place. I would just like to have guarantees that this debate can continue to take place. There is first of all a technical aspect. The aim is not, however, to continue to meet as it is today. We know very well that we take risks. We need to solve this technical problem. But there is also a political agreement. I would remind you that when the special powers were voted, different traditions of debate emerged. While I have read the parliamentary annals under Martens-Gol, there has been a great tradition of lengthy democratic debates. It is reported that the time for questions and answers lasted for hours. We cannot do this today in view of health issues. There were a lot of control issues. I recall that special powers do not prohibit control at the government level. I was told that the tradition under the special powers of Jean-Luc Dehaene was a little less democratic and had been a little more dismissed. I am in favour of obtaining assurances that the parliamentary debate will continue by videoconference. The goal is not to keep seeing each other physically. That would be a bad example for the population, and that would be a bad example for ourselves anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u27	Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] In my capacity as President of the Chamber, may I comment on a number of points so that there would be no misunderstandings? Firstly, following the Prime Minister's statement, we were taken by a motion. The vote of confidence will take place this afternoon at 2.30 p.m. Once the vote of confidence has been accepted, normal parliamentary control, not only on the use of any special powers, but on all aspects of government policy, will be possible. Motions may also be tabled, including, where appropriate, motions of confidence and censure. That is quite essential in a normal parliamentary system. The checks-and-balances must be between a parliament, on the one hand, and an executive, on the other. In the past few days and weeks, your servant has always opposed the construction that a government would be given powers of attorney in current affairs. In that case, everything is effectively given away. That is my personal conviction, and I also state it in my capacity as President of the Chamber and not in order to prolong the debate. The first step we need to take is to effectively assess whether or not confidence can be given. Secondly, I have received until the present hour, it is now 12.29 p.m., still no text, unless something has come up, about the special powers. Mr van Grieken, when Parliament is caught by such a text, we will naturally have to discuss that text in committee and adopt that special power law. It will, of course, also determine the way in which parliamentary control will have to be exercised. The advantage of special powers is that the government can issue decisions quickly and efficiently, but these decisions are, of course, always the subject of parliamentary control and ratification. When that text comes in, I will do with it what needs to be done, namely let him consider it and so on. That's the normal parliamentary game. If that is possible today, it will happen today. If that is no longer possible today, then we will have to organise our work. That is why I convened the Conference of Presidents this afternoon at the end of the plenary session. Thirdly, there is, of course, the vote on provisional appropriations. If the vote of confidence has been adopted, then of course I insist that this is actually done in rather broad consensus that the draft provisional appropriations can also be voted on this afternoon. In doing so, I have indicated the various elements and Parliament knows what it stands for. There is still a question that was asked yesterday in the Conference of Presidents and I proposed a text for an adaptation of the Rules of Procedure. It is not easy to convene meetings. That is why I propose that we use appropriate rules, inter alia in relation to the quorum. Through videoconferencing, we will have the opportunity in the coming weeks to carry out our parliamentary work in an adapted form. I wrote this text. It was distributed and taken into account. Next week, therefore, the Committee on Rules of Procedure will also be able to approve such a text. I wanted to give that to the Chamber, not to be polemical, but just to say what we are now facing over the next few hours and days. I propose that we suspend our work now. We shall meet at 2.30 p.m. at the earliest for the simple reason that this was the moment when the Prime Minister gave me her motion. We meet here in the same composition in this room. You know how the voting is organised. This will be divided into different committee rooms. Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u28	Mr President, you mentioned a Conference of Presidents. I think it's causing a little trouble. Isn't that planned for today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u29	Yes, it is today, after the plenary session, this afternoon. The invitation was sent around.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u30	Mr President, in the Conference of Presidents yesterday we also referred to a vote on the text on bridge law. Does Minister Ducrame have to come? It is not included in the list of persons authorized to enter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip030x.u31	Yes, it's another project. That goes without saying. We agreed in the Conference of Presidents that this debate would take place in the presence of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers. It goes without saying, when there is another project, that the competent minister should be present. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 March 2020 at 2.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 2.30 p.m.
