ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u1	Madam President, Minister, in the course of July a technical committee of the European Union adopted a text with the effect of further delaying the updating of the pesticide licensing system, which still allows the marketing of molecules dangerous to pollinators. In fact, while the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) had issued a series of recommendations to review the current pesticide risk assessment tests on bees, the Committee stalemated them, pushing the measures proposed by EFSA to a subsequent review which would take place at best after the summer of 2021. As a result, the three main neonicotinoid insecticides banned in April 2018 could be replaced by such problematic products. This is a decision that appears to be at least incomprehensible, especially since most studies tend to show the continuous collapse of pollinating insect populations. It appears that between 2013 and 2019, the guide document containing the EFSA recommendations was presented about 30 times to the technical committee concerned, composed of representatives of each Member State of the European Union, but that no agreement to adopt it was found, due to lack of a qualified majority. Minister, what is your view on this? Can you give us the position that our representatives have in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u2	Madam President, Mr Senesael, your question is important. This is not the first time you have approached this issue. We both care about the bees and honey they produce that you are – it seems to me – like me, an amateur. Indeed, I have no doubt that you have understood how sensitive I am to the fate of bees and, more generally, to the issue of biodiversity. To answer your question, before being placed on the market, each active substance that enters the composition of a plant protection product, such as pesticides, must be evaluated. The guideline, which was approved by the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed on 17 July 2019, aims to take greater account of acute toxicity impacts on honey bees in assessment procedures. Belgium – it must be noted – is one of the only European countries to have preceded the Committee whose question. In 2017, as part of the Federal Bees Plan, our country published a national guidance document that implements an EFSA guidance document written in 2013. Thus, since 1 January 2019, in Belgium, all procedures for the authorisation of an insecticide are first assessed on the chronic toxicity of this product against bees, but also on its acute toxicity. Chronic toxicity means what kills or makes pollinating insects sick in the medium to long term. Acute toxicity is defined as "acute toxicity", which kills immediately or in the short term. In addition, in our country, the toxicity of products is now assessed not only for domestic bees, but also for bumblebees and other species of wild bees. The effect of the products concerned is also evaluated in larvae – and not only in adult insects. It's extremely important. These measures, applicable to insecticides since 1 January 2019, were extended to herbicides and fungicides on 1 January. In short, we are constantly making progress. After trying to bring the EFSA Bee Guidance to a European level, the Commission proposed – for lack of a majority – a version that included less stringent standards. This proposal was adopted last July. Belgium publicly deplored the lack of consensus on the Bee Guidance document. Nevertheless, it supported the Commission's proposal, since it still allowed legislation to evolve throughout the European Union. I confirm, however, that our country will continue to apply the stricter standards laid down in the EFSA document. It is important that we remain as forward-thinking as possible in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u3	Minister, I would like to thank you for your response and for your sensitivity to maintaining the promotion of biodiversity. It is in this context that the question has also been asked, since we are talking about pollinating insects. Biodiversity is therefore necessary, indispensable and a priority. I would also like to welcome the position taken by Belgium, which deplores the lack of consensus and applies the highest standards, both for insecticides and since 1 January 2019 for pesticides and fungicides. Minister, I can only support you in your efforts to remain at the forefront of this fight because it is noble and worthy of interest. I also believe that it provides a long-term vision for the development of our nature and our biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Willaert's 55001250C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u5	Mr Minister, I had converted my written question into an oral question because I had not yet received any figures. In the meantime, however, I have received it. My question will therefore also concern the analysis of these figures. If a beekeeper finds a dead bee population, there are procedures of the BFSA that must be followed. However, I have been warned by beekeepers that these procedures are very cumbersome and complicated. From your answer to my written question, I would say that you feel the same way. So we're in agreement on one thing. However, we differ on the actions to be taken in response to this. The Agency points out that it is unable to provide us with significant figures for the last three years. You said in your reply that you would ask for an explanation. I therefore ask you to share that statement with us as soon as you have received it. I also read that in a seven-year period there were only 28 beekeepers in whom relevant poisoning symptoms were followed. However, I am outraged that there are so few cases in which one can effectively demonstrate that there is a problem. In only 20 of these 28 cases residues were found in the bees and in only 9 cases pesticides could be effectively identified as cause of abnormal mortality. It is also strange that all nine contacted organizations such as the Beekeepers' Association and gardeners' associations. So I think this is just the tip of the iceberg and there is a much bigger problem. Beekeepers tell us that these cumbersome procedures ensure that they no longer report. If it hasn't paid off the first time, then the next time they just don't report it anymore. I also read that no case of acute pesticide-based intoxication can be established with certainty. Is there something wrong with the procedure? Can we really not find a procedure whereby this can be established with certainty? I read that the origin of poisoning is difficult to determine because the problem is very complex and the investigation is very difficult. When I listen to the beekeepers, I hear that some farmers I stress: some farmers are hiding behind the problem that this is too difficult. They say they don't have to deal with it, because it hasn't been clearly demonstrated that it's their fault. I also hear beekeepers saying that they are laughed at when they want to engage in dialogue with farmers about the welfare of their bees. I find that strange, because at the moment all studies show that the future of agriculture is just in balance with ecosystems, with a great deal of attention being paid to pollinators. From your answer, I would like to say that you really want to look for solutions to this problem, for which I would like to thank you very much. Because of the beekeepers I make some suggestions to do this better. This is an approach involving both beekeepers and farmers and engaging in dialogue with each other. They suggest that a fund for compensation borne by, for example, a tax on a phyto-license could be a solution, so that farmers also contribute financially to acute intoxications. In your reply, I also read the need for more research and more and far-reaching actions on federal bee plans. There is also the system in the long term, namely a shift to an agricultural policy where subsidies go to the good examples, showing that nature and agriculture can really go hand in hand, instead of compensating for where it continues to go wrong. I'll finish with my questions. What are your conclusions on the BFSA's LCE study on bee mortality in beekeepers? How do you evaluate the roadmaps? Do you have any suggestions for improvement and how we can work together to do better in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Creemers, I pay very much attention to the protection of bees, as I mentioned in my reply to Mr Senesael. I also mentioned this when I reiterated the positive actions taken by Belgium in recent years. For these elements, I refer to the answer I gave to your written question No. 35. There you will find answers to all the questions you have asked me. For your additional questions, dont your prends connaissance à l'instant, and more specifically for the statistical data, you will understand that these are elements for which a thorough investigation by the administration is required. I therefore invite you to put this supplementary question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u7	Minister, it is a bit strange to refer to an oral question with a reference to a written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u8	Madam President, Minister, as an analysis of your answer, I have asked many additional questions and will indeed submit them in writing. I do understand that a great deal of effort is being made for the bees, but I do not think it is enough yet. We must dare to go much further in taking up this leading role in Europe. If we look at the neonicotinoids and at their use for professional purposes, we find that they were all subject to thorough investigations before they came on the market, and then 10 or 20 years later we find that there is a problem. I therefore continue to call for a precautionary principle that defends Belgium at international and, above all, European level before such matters come onto the market. I will submit all my other specific questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u9	Minister, since 14 December 2019, according to a new AFSCA regulation applying a European regulation itself, all plants intended for planting are subject to a plant passport. In practice, seeds and plants produced by a market gardener for its own vegetable production are not concerned. On the other hand, trade and sales will only be permitted with a plant passport. To be issued these phytosanitary passports, the marketer must have 17.1 approval. The marketer will be checked each year and will have to inform his local control unit of his intention to obtain these passports. That is a problem. Indeed, farmers who produce on a small scale and want to exchange seed or seed will no longer be able to do so because the procedures associated with this new obligation will create untenable financial burdens. All the administrative procedures and analyses requested – in addition to the fact that the variety of products offered by these growers is very wide – represent too much cost. When asked by farmers about this, AFSCA replied that it applied European standards. Therefore, there is currently no flexibility to address the concerns of small-scale producers. Minister, what are you planning to do to address the concerns that we have here? What is your position on the possibility of easing this requirement for small, short-run farms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u10	Like you, I am very attentive to the issue of short circuits, Madame de Laveleye, and by extension, to the work of the professionals you are talking about. This includes everything related to peasant seeds. Let's call it that. Your intervention gives me the opportunity to stress that we are still in a position of balance between the protection of our small producers and the enhancement of short circuits, on the one hand, and the imperatives of plant health, on the other. The AFSCA is doing what it needs to do. The new European Plant Health Regulation came into force, as you know, on 14 December 2019, just a few days before the beginning of this year, which marks, as you also know, the beginning of the International Year of Plant Health. It is important to stress this throughout the year, as far as we can. Plant health is human health. It's oxygen. In recent years, we have entered into an extremely important dynamic. We agree on this aspect. This dynamic aims to drastically reduce the use of pesticides for both environmental and public health reasons. We could even add that it is about protecting the health of our farmers. And that's so good! But this also inevitably implies an increased risk of plant diseases. The plant obviously has all the defects that are known to it in a number of cases – not in all – but it protects the plant. The new European rules therefore aim at more proactivity in order to avoid the introduction and spread of harmful organisms and plant diseases. As you know, these diseases pose a threat to entire parts of our economy, whether in the agricultural, horticultural or forestry sectors. As is well known, e-commerce and trade in plants and certain seeds between professional producers generate movement, trade that poses a greater risk to the spread of plant diseases. In doing so, no exceptions are provided for in the European Regulation on obligations, such as subjecting themselves to annual checks or accompanying trade and sales between producers of a plant passport. In this sense, the AFSCA does what is imposed on it. Where risk analysis permits, however, the European Regulation contains specific provisions for small-scale producers. An exception to the registration requirement is, for example, applicable to professional producers who deliver small quantities exclusively and directly to end-users. This ultimately stems from common sense. A B2C relationship generates a lower risk than a B2B industry, which induces a process that includes more operators and thus more opportunities to spread possible plant diseases between different links in the same chain. That said, if the regulation now in force does not allow the Member States to relax these arrangements, in the interests of uniform rules within the European Union, I will be careful that this regulation continues to pursue its objective, that is to protect our operators from the risks of plant diseases. If practice shows that the measure is disproportionate, I will certainly draw the Commission's attention to this. I must meet the Commissioner for Health shortly. I will take the trouble to tell him that I hear that it can be demonstrated that the measures related to the December 2019 Regulation are fully proportionate to the plant health objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u11	Minister, thank you very much for that answer. You say it's the year of plant health. In 2020, it is also the year of biodiversity. Historically, small farmers are the guarantors of a dynamic biodiversity that allows people all over the world to feed in good conditions. Small producers face the following reality. Their production consists of healthy plants. We must not fall into angelism either, because there are stakes in all sectors, but the methods of production of peasant agriculture make it possible to put into circulation robust plants, healthy and adapted to the territory in which the peasants work. I understand that you are open to an analysis to determine whether the European directive is disproportionate. That is the echo we have now, with regard to the implementation of this directive. We will be interested in how this dialogue with small farmers, intended to hear why it is disproportionate, will be organised, knowing that we are returning regularly enough to express that this is perhaps one of the shortcomings of the AFSCA. Indeed, it is carrying out some of its tasks very well, but it is experiencing difficulties in dialogue with small farmers. It should be fully connected to the realities of small farmers. Please note that you will be attentive to this possible disproportion and that you will conduct an evaluation. We will remain attentive, because the small farmers remind us that it is not so easy to make their difficulties heard. The milk sector is causing difficulties, as well as phytosanitary passports. You will need to set up a real dialogue with AFSCA with a view to co-building appropriate responses for these producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u12	Madame de Laveleye, I will answer you in three points. First of all, under the previous legislature, we created a small producer unit. Moreover, it was my political formation that ensured that the AFSCA could develop one. No one had thought about it before. This means that, from now on, the AFSCA is more responsive to small producers. I wanted to further increase the number of people working in these cells. Moreover, the AFSCA has no choice: it must apply the European regulation. Finally, if an evaluation of the December 2019 Plant Health Regulation is to be conducted, the Commissioner concerned may be brought to the attention of this request. Nevertheless, this task will be primarily the responsibility of the Commission, not the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. We have an excellent response to the capacity of the small producers unit to support them in understanding and implementing directives and regulations. It is therefore a real added value for the sector. On the other hand, there is still frustration because if this unit is adapted to explain the regulations, it is not so adapted to reflect together and to bring up information and difficulties on the ground. There is therefore an important room for improvement. With regard to the fact that the exceptions must come from the European level, you stressed that you had an important role in bringing the information back. We therefore hope that you will be able to listen to small producers for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic102x.u14	Question No 55001967C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Thank you, Minister. We have had to wait and insist on your arrival for a long time, but sometimes questions are raised. So I hope to see you again soon in our committee.
