ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. I am chairman of the ad interim committee today and I am therefore still a little uncomfortable. Let's get started. There is immediately a novelty: each questioner has two minutes and a half to ask his question. The clock's running, but she's about to start over. The Minister also has two minutes and a half to answer and then there is one minute to reply. I have to be flexible, but I've been a teacher, so I'll try not to. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cécile Thibaut's 5501421C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u2	Madam President, Minister, it seems that much of the honey sold on a large surface is actually adulterated honey – which is the result of a process of increasing its volume through cane syrup or other types of sugar. The use of this fraud seems to us to be problematic in two respects. First of all, this technique blurs consumers who mistakenly believe they are buying honey. Second, it creates unfair competition with small producers, who try to produce quality goods and who find it difficult to sell them because of their higher price. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you have more recent figures than those found in the study commissioned by the European Union in 2015 that focused on the proportion of adulterated honey in our supermarket shelves? What are the mandatory controls on honey sold in Belgium? What techniques are used for these controls? What are the penalties for companies producing and distributing non-compliant honeys? How many such sanctions have been imposed in Belgium in the last ten years? What steps have you taken to improve honey labelling? I am thinking in particular of the indication of its origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u3	Madam President, Madame de Laveleye, I will answer you in detail. First of all, I must confess that, for a new Member of Parliament, your questions are very detailed. I, who have been sitting in Parliament for more than 15 years, will encourage you to continue your in-depth approach to the issues. While I sincerely thank you for your question, I must tell you, however, that it does not really fall within my remit and I will explain to you why. I am the minister responsible for the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security. However, with regard to adulterated and thus fraudulent honey, we are rather within the scope of the Economic Inspectorate, which falls within the competence of my colleague Nathalie Muylle. I therefore invite you to address your question to him. You know that I am very attentive to honey, to the health of bees and, in general, to beekeeping. Although this is not within my mandate, I have made an effort to provide some clarification. Economic actors placing honey on the market must comply with the rules of the Royal Decree of 19 March 2004 and European Regulation No 1169/2011 (FIC). Compliance with these provisions is monitored by the Economic Inspectorate. Only public health requirements fall within the purview of the AFSCA. The penalties provided for infringements of the various regulations mentioned above are set out in Book XV of the Code of Economic Law. It is a criminal sanction of level 2 or level 3 in case of bad faith (aggravation of the fault). The Economic Inspectorate has, for the past 10 years, taken one hundred and twelve samples as part of the quality control of honey and prepared eight minutes, especially during the period 2015 to 2019. One case of withdrawal from the market was even carried out by this service. I come back to my introduction: we can only encourage the Economic Inspectorate to move forward on this matter. I believe that a question on this point addressed to the competent minister would be clearly useful. I encourage you to raise this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. I sent the same question to Mrs Muylle in the form of a written question. I'm still waiting for the answer. It is interesting to see how the controls are operated. We will start from Mrs Muylle's reply, in addition to yours, to see how we can move forward to protect our producers and consumers. We will come back to Parliament to try to improve this. I think it's in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u5	Mr Minister, this question was first put in writing and was repeated as an oral question because the written question remained. Last night I received a detailed reply, thank you very much. I would like to make a few comments on the answers I have received. Of course, I am pleased to read that chlorpyrifos can no longer be sold since last year and can no longer be used in our country from the end of this month. I'm very happy about that. I'm also glad to see that the residue we find keeps dropping. The latest figures suggest that 1.8 percent of the cases contain chlorpyrifos. I think that much when people know that a very small dose of chlorpyrifos is still harmful. We must therefore remain vigilant about this, especially when it comes to imports. So much for that comment. I made another thought of it. If EFSA now has clear studies that this is harmful, I call for more work to be done on the precautionary principle in the future. I have three specific questions. When I look at the residue studies, I don't see in any way what the cocktail effect could cause. Have studies been carried out on how the residues of the different pesticides can influence? Are they added together? I'm very happy to read that there's an advisor on biopesticides. Does it advise only on biopesticides or also on natural enemies, resistant varieties, rotation etc.? After all, it is very important not only to switch to biopesticides, but also to purely natural means. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for the efforts to make the herbicides no longer accessible to private individuals. Are steps also being taken to protect agriculture and professional use in general from herbicides in order to prepare agriculture for the future? Those were some additional questions. I realize it's hard to answer that right now, because they were only thought of last night.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u6	You asked me a question about this important point. The answer was twenty pages. That is why I proposed that you turn this question into a written question. You have already received the 20 pages of reply. I naturally preferred to send them to you in writing. I confess that your questions generated a lot of work, as detailed as they were. I didn't see myself detailing these twenty pages here in committee. If you have any further questions on the same subject or on the issue of biopesticides, I invite you to re-ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u8	Mr Gilissen is not yet here, so we are asking his question. 550 01751C out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u9	Minister, at the beginning of July I asked you a written question on the H3N1 virus. I'm still waiting for an answer. The virus has severely plagued the poultry farms in West Flanders. In the meantime, things have changed. I therefore tabled an additional question in November, to which I hope I will receive an answer today. In the period April-July 2019, 82 poultry farms were affected by the low pathogenic flu virus H3N1. A large group of poultry farmers then decided to clear their stables to prevent further spread of the virus. It was 57 companies. An order for slaughter was only issued by the government with the Royal Decree of 4 July 2019. This was published on 11 July, which meant that 25 more poultry farms had to dispose of their animals. Initially, no compensation was provided for poultry farmers because the virus was not recognised by the World Organisation for Animal Health. After pressing, the European Commission gave the green light to compensate poultry farmers, but only those who had waited for the slaughter order to be issued. For those who had already removed their stables preventively in an attempt to dive the virus in time, no compensation was apparently possible because it would be in breach of European state aid rules. Therefore, just those farmers who have taken responsibility will be punished for this. The Flemish Government has decided to reimburse that group of poultry farmers as well. It would involve more than 2.5 million animals which had already been disposed of and for which the federal government could not compensate. Mr Minister, would it not have been more logical for the federal government to compensate these companies for the economic consequences of animal disease? How much economic damage has the sector suffered since the H3N1 virus showed up? You recently indicated that the BFSA would conduct an epidemiological study. What's the status of that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u10	Mrs Gijbels, as you say, the H3 virus is not part of the diseases recognised by the OIE. Consequently, without my intervention to the European Commission, the poultry farmers affected by the epidemic by the H3 virus would not have received a euro. I had to make a very strong plea to clean up the animals from the infected farms with the support of the government and the Sanitary Fund. The European Commission initially considered such support to be a public intervention that was not authorised under European law, as mentioned above, because this virus was not included in the list of animal diseases recognised by the OIE. I asked the Commission to examine other legal avenues. As a result of this démarche, the Commission obtained an agreement in principle on the reimbursement of livestock farmers who were subject to a decision to slaughter. In fact, I have interplayed with the European Commission in this respect. I finally got the green light from the Commission, but not until 4 July 2019. The operators who started slaughter from 4 July 2019 will be compensated by the Sanitary Fund. For the others, the Commission maintained its interpretation, despite several meetings organised on my initiative with my Walloon and Flemish colleagues, on 11 June, 25 June and 15 July 2019. The Commission repeated several times that the European legal framework on State aid did not allow the farmers who had cleared their animals for the decision to slaughter the federal government. The Commission has also repeatedly pointed out that these farmers could receive compensation for economic losses or compensation for repopulation. Its financing was then the exclusive competence of the Regions. The good news is that the Flemish Region is now helping the sector. The sector was severely affected by the emergence of avian H3N1 influenza virus. I am fully aware of that. The economic damage is different in nature. I am thinking here of the depopulation of the stables through slaughter, emptying, repopulation, but also the impact on sales and exports. The epidemiological study of the H3N1 virus is carried out by the scientific institute Sciensano. This investigation has not yet been completed. This is a very complex and time-consuming study which should analyse not only the data from the poultry holdings affected, but also the weather conditions and the contacts that caused the virus to spread. There have been no new infections since mid-July. The numerator of the number of infected holdings thus remains at 82. There are 23 companies that have benefited from the compensation scheme. EUR 3,555,135,12 is paid by the Animal Health Fund. My administration is also preparing the design of KB to exempt the 82 companies affected by the H3N1 virus from the mandatory contributions 2019 to the Animal Health Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I certainly appreciate your intervention in the dossier. She's been able to get things moving. Nevertheless, it is a pity that only about 10% of the costs for poultry farmers have so far been covered. Moreover, we can expect a perverse effect. If poultry farmers have found that they have not been rewarded for their preventive actions, they will in future wait for an order to be completed which will increase the damage. It is therefore still a pity that the federal government does not see any opportunity to intervene even more for those who have acted with the best of intentions. I didn't hear exactly how much the economic damage is. I suppose we'll get the figures. We also await the publication of Sciensano's research. I assume that the results will be communicated here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u12	Madam President, Mrs Gijbels, I would like to remind you that without the many meetings with the Länder and without my request to Commissioner Hogan, no money would have come from the European Commission. The federal really did everything it could. I must even tell you that, if there was an opening on this issue, it was because of our working relationship with Commissioner Hogan, otherwise the Commission remained very closed to compensation. So it's a little miracle that happened. But I know that, even if it's a small miracle, for farmers facing the problem, it's not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u13	Mr Minister, given that the highly pathogenic H5N8 virus is on the way, it is very important to communicate well with poultry farmers so that timely action can be taken. In this way one can avoid a new drama. I shall return to that matter in another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u14	Madam President, Minister, I should like to inform you that I have also asked your colleague, Mrs Muylle, for clarification on the commercial aspect. Indeed, it is not always easy to properly identify the competent minister to answer the various questions. Moreover, in my view, this subject justifies collective work. To return to my question, according to a royal decree of 1985, in order to be placed on the market, the flour must be prepackaged. For several years now, however, there has been a movement of bulk sales which corresponds to increasingly high consumer expectations, in particular to reduce their waste as drastically as possible. Minister, how should this provision be interpreted for the bulk sale of flour? Can it be sold in silos or bins with shovels? From the point of view of public health, what is the opinion of the AFSCA regarding the authorization of the bulk sale of flour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u15	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, I must tell you that, as far as I am concerned, I am buying some of my bulk consumer products. This is particularly the case with dried fruits, which I particularly appreciate. I proceed in this way because it is a new niche for a number of independents. However, I am also the Minister of the Independents. In any case, new stores are being created. Beyond the imperatives in terms of reducing packaging, this is a good thing. However, some products require packaging. As you have pointed out, you have also addressed your question to Mrs Muylle, which I understand to the extent that this is a subject which also falls within the remit of the latter. As regards flours, the Royal Decree of 2 September 1985, which does not fall within my remit, provides that flours intended for direct delivery to consumers may only be marketed in prepackaged form. The sale of bulk flour is therefore not permitted, even in silos or bins with shovels. Flour must be packed in packing units which will be sold to consumers as they stand. AFSCA supports the ban on the sale of bulk flour for health reasons. Flour is a material that can moisten in contact with air and provide an environment conducive to mould growth and the possible production of mycotoxins. In addition, flours can easily be found on the ground or on other surfaces, which can sometimes attract pests such as insects or rodents, and cause cross-contamination with other commodities also sold in bulk. In addition, people who are allergic to or intolerant to gluten may also be at increased risk of exposure. I believe that we should as much as possible encourage the reduction of packaging but, at present, a number of products must be sold, for health and consumer safety reasons, in prepackaged and packaged form. This is the opinion of the AFSCA experts on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear the health elements for consumers and this provides a good basis for further dialogue with the bulk players. We must be able to allow these new consumer entrepreneurs to flourish while remaining in optimal conditions for consumer health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u17	I am fully open to dialogue and am ready to meet with stakeholders in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u18	Thank you, I think they're in contact with Mrs. Muylle's office. We'll send the answer back, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u19	Madam President, Minister, we remain between two areas of competence, between Mrs Muylle's and yours. A European rule prohibits the sale of olive oil in bulk. However, it would seem that there is a solution. The people who work in the bulk sale tell us that in France, the authorities have developed the following principle: retail businesses wishing to distribute olive oil in bulk, in extra virgin form, have an obligation to make a "prior declaration of conditioner" to an organisation which, at home, is called FranceAgrimer. The European Commission confirms that this solution is in line with the European Olive Oil Regulation. Minister, have you worked with your governments on this issue, particularly in terms of health costs and consumer protection? According to the AFSCA, is there a risk to human health? Of course, you are particularly interested in this question. Could the French solution be transposed to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u20	Minister, Mr de Laveleye refers to France, where there appears to be a solution for olive oil that can be sold separately. I wonder if you have examples of other European countries where that is possible. My second question has already been answered in part by your statement that some products may or may not be sold separately. In the light of sanitary safety and food safety, why can I bring my bottle to the market to be filled with fresh milk when I cannot fill my own bottle with olive oil in a packaging-free shop? Questioning about this teaches me that the cause may be that olive oil can be used for fraud, for example by adding sunflower oil. However, in Belgium oil can apparently be sold which contains up to 49 % sunflower oil, although the label may bear 'olive oil' as its inscription. Is that in accordance with the rules or should there be adjustments in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u21	You were talking about the territories. Indeed, this is a question which focuses more on the powers of my colleague Mrs Muylle, Minister for the Economy. I could, on the basis of the sharing of competences, strictly refer these questions systematically to my colleague. If I do not, it is because I do not want to disrespect the committee and the Members that you are. But the fact that I'm answering is a bit of a problem for me. So I'm careful. According to the current European legislation, it is prohibited to sell olive oil other than in a prepackaged form. That's the first point. This measure was introduced in order to guarantee the authenticity and quality of the olive oil sold. In order to be able to sell bulk oil, an amendment to the European Regulation would be necessary. For the sale of olive oil on demand, the Economic Inspectorate, responsible, as you know, for various tasks within the SPF Economy, has informed us that there is indeed a demand from the bulk sales sector for this type of commercial activity. The Economic Inspectorate carried out an initial analysis. You see that I want to stick to the text and the response of the Economic Inspectorate, since the question is not strictly within my competence. It has also contacted the French authorities, in accordance with European regulations. It's important to your question. The French authorities indicated that the sale in bulk was also prohibited on French territory. There is therefore no possibility in France for French consumers to carry out a filling. We must, however, bring a nuance. Accredited vendors can do the filling themselves. Who are these accredited vendors? It's the producers. So it is the producers who can sell in bulk in the French system. They may carry out a prepackaging themselves provided that they have an official approval as a "final conditioner" of olive oil. It is therefore not known to what extent bulk olive oil sales take place in other European countries. A priori, this is not allowed by European legislation, as I have indicated. We have a French specificity which does not contravene the European Regulation which seems simply to interpret it in a more flexible way, as long as it is the producer who conditions and sells in bulk. European legislation lays down rules for the labelling of mixtures of vegetable oils. Where words, images or graphical representations indicate the presence of olive oil in a mixture of olive oil with another vegetable oil in the labelling separately from the list of ingredients, the mixture shall be referred to as "mixture of vegetable oil and olive oil', immediately followed by the percentage of olive oil in the mixture. In addition, the list of ingredients must indicate the specific plant origin of the oils.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u22	Minister, it is nevertheless interesting to hear your answer. You are very clear that these are not your skills. This implies that for this product, there are no health issues identified by AFSCA. Sometimes there are both health issues and more technical or commercial issues. From what I hear in your answer, there is no issue with consumer health in this case. This allows us to move forward at a more technical level with Ms Muylle or with the future government on these issues. We believe, however, that this meets the needs of these new bulk entrepreneurs and the needs of consumers. I think we could use a little creativity to move forward on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u23	Minister, I have two further questions. Firstly, it is allowed in Belgium to add a herb or aroma to olive oil, as is the case with Oil & Vinegar. Is there a difference in risk to public health if an aroma is added to the olive oil? Maybe I should put that question in writing. It feels very strange that I can buy olive oil in my own bottle with which rosemary is added at Oil & Vinegar and that I cannot do this with another distributor. I was just wondering where the difference in legislation is. Maybe I should ask Minister Muylle this, too. I was wondering if there was a difference in the BFSA's checks. Secondly, the labels must always be drawn up in our country languages in Belgium. I was wondering whether a tighter control could be introduced. It happens that olive oil is mixed with other mixtures of vegetable oil. I am glad to hear that it is mandatory to mention this on the labels. I was wondering, but this will probably also be a question for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, whether extra attention can be paid to this? Can we ask for reports on this to see whether this happens often or not? Can the labels be extra checked because they still need to be adapted to the Belgian national languages? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u24	Of course, I am at your disposal. However, as I have told you, I cannot give an answer to matters that do not fall within my competence. But I remain at your disposal to answer strictly health and food safety questions. I do not want to improvise an answer about vinegar, for example, but I do not want to be closed either. In doing so, if you wish to obtain further information on this subject, I will be able to communicate it to you quite quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u25	Madam Chair, Minister, I have three questions on the topic of listeria. Two are very close because they concern cheese. The third, on the other hand, deals with a different theme. Minister, we have had another problematic episode for an artisanal cheesemaker, the Laineux Fauves Bergerie. He was forced by AFSCA to destroy lots of raw milk cheese that were weakly contaminated with listeria. The threshold was less than 10 units per 25 grams. At other stages of the food chain, higher levels of listeria are permitted. In the distribution, the threshold is 100 units per 25 grams. This case again puts on the agenda the question of a specific framework for small farmers and their accompaniment, especially when it comes to cheese. This will be the subject of my next question. Minister, what is the status of the deployment of the small producers extension and support unit set up in Belgium in recent years? Has she been able to work on flexibilities for small producers since 2015? What about the results of the research funded (challenge tests) on the development of the listeria? At the scientific level, there is surely a lot to learn at this level. Within the framework of the AFSCA policies, what is the integration of the Guide to Good European Hygiene Practices for the Production of Cheeses and Handicrafted Dairy Products, published on the initiative of FACEnetwork, the European Network of Dairy Producers and Cheese Craftsmen, and validated by the European Commission? Madam President, I have a direct link to my next question. Minister, a study was carried out at Belgian level between 2017 and 2019 by the Consortium Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech University of Liège and other partners. This study provides a scientific basis for adapting the regulation of the AFSCA to the reality of small producers active in the food sector, particularly related to raw milk. This study examined the development of listeria in three cheese families: fresh cheeses, soft cheeses and hard and semi-hard cheeses. The conclusions say that, for fresh cheeses, levels of the pathogen have systematically decreased during experiments. The risks associated with the presence of listeria in this type of product therefore appear to be limited. Minister, could you clarify what is here referred to as "farm producers' cheeses"? Is it only raw milk cheese? The terms used are not always the same and it complicates things when you are not a cheese producer. What is the status of the AFSCA review process on the basis of this study? When will it be returned? At this point, what can you say about the content of this opinion? Does the AFSCA envisage a system of derogations from the permitted thresholds for certain products? Or is it considering reviewing its risk analyses and providing differentiated thresholds for certain products? Madam President, I now turn to my third question, which concerns meat. This is a success of the AFSCA. We can stress that. You might think we're on AFSCA's back. Here, on the contrary, this is a positive episode. It's old, but it's been in the press lately. Minister, AFSCA reportedly intercepted 3.4 tonnes of listeria-contaminated meat destined for Belgium from a Spanish company. AFSCA was able to find it, which put us safe in relation to a real public health problem. Is there any reason at this stage to believe that this case is related to Mr Fasen, the Dutchman who lived in the province of Antwerp and had links to the horsemeat scandal? What can you tell us about this 23-day delay between the shipment of meat and its interception by AFSCA inspectors? Is this a usual delay? This question is not sarcastic. Is it normal operation? Has this meat been intercepted by chance or does it really show the diligence of the AFSCA? Finally, does this matter feed your reflection, as the appropriate minister, on the limits of the import of industrial meat? Many local producers are very well controlled by the AFSCA. Does this have an impact on our vision of Belgian agriculture?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u26	Minister, I have another question about the follow-up of the listeria contamination in October 2019. In the meantime, I have also received a written reply, from which I can conclude that the samples seized after a risk is identified are no longer analysed by the BFSA. Is it the normal course of events that they are not automatically controlled? Then we do not know whether it was right that they were withdrawn from the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u27	Dear colleagues, Listeria is an extremely dangerous bacterium, to which political representatives, AFSCA and producers pay great attention. In 2018, there were 2,549 cases of listeriosis reported across the European Union and this resulted in the death of 229 people. The aim is to strike a balance between the necessary development of local products, particularly cheeses, and ensuring the health of consumers. The danger is real and the rules allow for the protection of all consumers, in particular at-risk groups, including children and the elderly. It is clear that we are performing in Belgium compared to other countries. You have given the example of a cheesemaker and, at the production stage, zero tolerance is rigorous since cheeses are live products, which evolve up to the consumption deadline. If, at the production stage, there is already a presence, even a weak one, it will increase and exceed the thresholds and will become a danger. So we're much stricter now. Mr. Munnix's incident a few years ago revealed the nature of the difficulties experienced by small producers, but fortunately did not remain a dead letter. That is why I am continuing my work with AFSCA on this issue. The Agency financed from its own funds a study on the growth of monocytogenic listeria in farm-made cheeses. She then received this study. Was it limited to drawing conclusions? No. As you know, the document has been forwarded to a scientific committee to deliver an opinion in March. On this basis, any adaptations aimed at easing the criteria to be applied to monocytogenic listeria are possible. We'll take care of it, if necessary. In your question, you mention the support to be given to small producers. This aspect was a priority under the previous legislature, since we had set up a support unit for this purpose. In 2018, according to figures that have been communicated to me, 200 farms in the diversification phase were accompanied. The AFSCA trainers also work closely together – as it is important that synergies be established – with associations such as DiversiFERM in Wallonia. Similarly, work has been done on the issue of good practice. For example, a hygiene guide for small producers in the European Union has been developed. The Belgian sector, for its part, had already drafted a self-control manual for dairy products produced on the farm, which was approved by the AFSCA. The adaptations of this guide are produced in close consultation with the sector and farmers are obviously obliged to apply good hygiene practices and to implement a flexible version of the procedures based on the HACCP system. We therefore look forward to the opinion of the committee. On the one hand, it will enable us to make concrete progress, guaranteeing the development of these products, which also make our identity, the pleasure of the consumer and the development capacity of the operators. They are obliged to do so today. Indeed, a farmer who is not diversifying is experiencing problems in the short or medium term. On the other hand, it is necessary to guarantee the safety of the consumer. I will answer your second question, Madame de Laveleye. Is that how it is pronounced? I wouldn't want to skin your name.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u28	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u29	I thank you from the outset for your comments, because we are sometimes very critical of AFSCA. This will be discussed soon, Madam Chair, when we have the IAF's final audit report. But we have one of the best agencies in Europe. Be aware that many foreign agencies are coming to ask AFSCA for advice on how it works. That's something I've wanted to say for a long time and I'm taking the opportunity here to express it. We discover a lot of things, but it's also because we control a lot. And we sometimes control more than in some close European countries. It is also linked to the fact that we work in a territory smaller than other countries. At the moment, I cannot answer you in substance in this case, because it is still in the investigation. Here's what I can tell you. I can pay tribute to the work of the AFSCA, which, as you pointed out, helped to avoid in 2017 a potential health scandal, and, beyond it, to avoid impacts on consumption. We were talking a moment ago about the deaths in Europe caused by the listeria, which amounted to 229. As we have seen in the past, justice needs to work more with the AFSCA and vice versa. We have, moreover, been able to take a number of measures in this context. Together with my colleague, the Minister of Justice, I have brought together the College of Attorneys General and the AFSCA to finalize a protocol to increase our level of food security. Madam Chair, we will discuss the issue of collaboration between justice and AFSCA in the context of the discussions to be held on audits. To return to your question, in the case before us, the normal procedure was destruction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as cheese issues are concerned, I understand that an opinion on the basis of the study of the consortium of Belgian universities is expected in March 2020. I will return to this issue in due course. You're talking about zero tolerance. This refers to the 2018 AFSCA audit, one of which encouraged the implementation of a more risk-based control approach. The issue here is to review the risk analysis according to the type of producers. This is, moreover, what this study will contribute to. I also hear with interest that there is a question of possible adaptation. In any event, care must be taken to have a specific risk analysis taking into account the different producers because they are not confronted with the same reality. I'm not the one who will teach you, but they've been waiting a long time for this to happen. One of the priorities of your policy note was to move forward with a policy adapted to small producers. Even if we do not question the foundations of the AFSCA, its competence and professionalism, things must be done for the small Belgian producers who need to be supported. However, according to the feedback we receive, the Small Producers Unit is more oriented towards an explanation of the legislation than towards a desire to find, with the said small producers, answers to the needs of consumers taking into account their reality. We will therefore remain attentive to the issue and will see how to move things forward on the basis of audits, your 2019 policy note and feedback from the field. In any event, we are delighted to meet with AFSCA in a few weeks to work on the substance of the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u31	I agree. The Small Producer Unit has recently been expanded by one additional person. But there is one thing: a different risk analysis, yes, but there will be no two-speed food security. The consumer is the same, and he must be guaranteed safety. So it's difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u32	Of course, we do not want two-speed food security. But the concept of risk analysis, as scientists feed it, is intended to ensure total safety, but on the basis of different realities. Our small producers face many difficulties. They're not asking for a pass-through. They just want the rules to be in line with their production reality and their economic reality. I insist on that. I know you're aware of this, but I think there's a lot of room for improvement. We will continue this substantive work on the basis of audits with the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u33	The rest of the discussion we are putting forward I do not have a reply now as we will come back to this on 4 February, when we discuss the audit of the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u34	Question No 50502292C by Mrs Dierick has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u35	That's the last question in the series, minister. Some were old, but we're happy to be able to put them down today. In the run-up to the end-of-year celebrations, the Gaia Association managed to shoot images of turkey farmers in the north of the country and broadcast them. Breeders whose Gaia states that she randomly selected them from among the 24 industrial turkey farms in Belgium. I will not go back to the images: you saw the documentary and you received my question. They reveal both animal welfare and food chain security issues. What we see in the images is icy: the level of hygiene is very problematic, not even to talk about animal suffering. Minister, my questions are as follows: When was the last time the AFSCA controls on the farmers who had been targeted? What has been the reaction of AFSCA following the distribution of these images? Are you considering setting up a system of systematic and regular controls on industrial meat farms in Belgium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u36	I would like to inform you very quickly that yesterday we were at the European Council and that the German Minister has tabled a proposal (which we knew would be tabled through our previous contacts) which we hastened to support at Belgian level. It aims to see the Commission set up a European animal welfare label. This will naturally put an end, throughout Europe, to certain labels which do not have the same criteria etc. I think this is a strong message that we can send quickly. In addition to Belgium, other important countries such as France have supported the German approach. I was also particularly shocked by these images and, to tell you the truth, I knew about it about two days before they came out and I was quick to ask AFSCA to carry out a check within the farm in question with regard to the health component. Again, you will see that this is more complicated and that the AFSCA is not on the front line in this area. The Agency was unable to obtain the information to identify the holding. Therefore, we asked the Agency to contact the judicial authorities in order to identify the exploitation in question because we did not receive any information from the head of Gaia. With regard to animal welfare, as you know, this is an exclusive competence of the Regions. The Flemish Region has also announced plans for a series of checks in the coming weeks – I think Ben Weyts has spoken on the subject – and it should be pointed out that, during the Agency's checks, if the Agency finds problems of animal welfare, it comes into direct contact with the Regions in order to report to them. Joint work is actually being done in this area, but everyone is doing their job. Therefore, the Regions must carry out their work in the area of animal welfare. With AFSCA, I focus on the health aspect, and this is the procedure. Turkey farms, fattening operations, are systematically monitored at a specified frequency, based on a risk analysis, produced on a scientific basis and included in the AFSCA inspection plan. This risk analysis is obviously based on the areas within the Agency's remit, as I have just indicated, and not on the animal welfare risks that fall within the regions. As far as I am concerned, for food safety, attention must be drawn to the fact that poultry intended for slaughter – and this is important – must be in good health in order to be presented in a slaughterhouse, with analytical results that relate to salmonella and others. All slaughtered poultry undergo ante-mortem and post-mortem assessments at the slaughterhouse to ensure their safety for human consumption. This is the work of the AFSCA. That's what we're asking her to do and that's what she does – not animal welfare. With the exception of the findings: it transmits the information to the Regions, of course. For each poultry or consignment of poultry sent to the slaughterhouse, any breeder must provide the slaughterhouse operator with information on the food chain. To this end, the breeder must maintain the necessary data in his or her operating records. Of course, we have to say that. We must also avoid putting all farmers in the same bag. But I don't have to tell you because you know it. This is sometimes a problem when such shocking images pass through the media, on the Internet or on television. This is the problem of generalisation. Of course, we must be careful not to put all poultry farmers in the same bag, even though – and I am telling you very clearly – I think that today, in our country, questions need to be asked about the way in which poultry are raised industrially. Over the past five years, more than two million poultry have had to be slaughtered for health reasons. Do you realize? What does that have to do with it? We have talked a lot about this and we still have questions here on the agenda on this problem, on health diseases affecting poultry and birds. We can't go on like this! We're not going to slaughter millions of poultry every five years. We also have to ask ourselves the question about how we are raised. Does this not ultimately lead to a number of health problems which are accentuated precisely by concentration? I know the sector is thinking about it and realizing it. It is therefore not closed and it is a debate that we will have to have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u37	Minister, I can only agree with you on your conclusion. There is indeed a concern with industrial poultry farming. Where I'm a little hungry is that, according to your answer, there would be only 24 turkey farms. It's not my idea to put everyone in the same bag. This does not, therefore, represent hundreds of holdings. Since then, the AFSCA has been able to receive special attention. I hear we don't know where the images were taken. But, as there are only 24 farms, a more in-depth analysis of the problem of industrial turkeys in Belgium could be made. Animal welfare is a very important issue for us and, I hear, for you too, even if it does not concern us directly in this committee. In this case, these are hygiene problems that we believe deserve attention from the AFSCA. I hear that the sector is thinking about the health issues of industrial farming. We really need to move on. This refers to what I said earlier, because I think the use of risk analyses adapted to the type of livestock by the AFSCA is really interesting. In any case, thank you for your detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u38	Mrs de Laveleye, I agree with you on some points, but I would like to point out that all poultry undergo ante- and post-mortem assessments to verify their safety for human consumption. The latest figures I consulted in this regard showed an extremely satisfactory compliance rate. Besides, we talked about not putting everyone in the same bag. I am not going to ask AFSCA to go down to the 24 farms, on the grounds that one of them is likely to be subject to an animal welfare investigation – regional jurisdiction, and therefore not within the scope of the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u39	Minister, your clarification is necessary. The situation is very difficult for producers whose work on a smaller scale involves several factors: health, animal welfare, climate, etc. They sometimes feel that the controls they are subjected to do not correspond exactly to their reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u41	You're the one who said it. In any case, agriculture has major challenges in terms of human health, which require adequate risk analysis. As we receive AFSCA in a few weeks, we can still work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u42	Mr President, I would like to express my concern, particularly in our province of Limburg. The majority of the people present here are Limburgers and we are looking forward to your answer. Bacteria fire is an infection that has been common in the Limburg fruit sector since the 1970s and has always been regarded by Europe as a quarantine disease. I understand that this has not been the case since December. This means that legislation has changed, leading to concerns in the sector, especially with regard to exports to China. Now the BFSA would no longer be competent for the checks but would have a leading role for the municipal authorities. They can intervene, inter alia, through the GAS legislation. That, of course, does not mean that the problem is gone. It seems to me, therefore, only natural that the various authorities should consult. Minister, I have three questions about this. Firstly, can you give a clear overview of the current role of the BFSA, now that European legislation has changed? Secondly, have you discussed this with your Flemish colleague? After all, there must be continuity in the policy of this infection. Thirdly, as the municipalities are given more power, there will also be a need for some form of support. It is not just the fruit growers who are involved; it is also possible for individuals to suffer from this infection. It is very important that they know what is going on and that they are therefore well informed. Has the federal government planned initiatives to sensitise people or are you looking at the Flemish government before that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u43	Mr Verduyckt, the BFSA is responsible for monitoring compliance with the legal provisions on sanitary policy for plants and plant products. In practice, this includes carrying out checks to determine whether quarantine organisms are present in Belgium. These controls cover plants and plant products imported from outside the EU and plants and plant products present in Belgium by growers, traders, individuals or in the natural environment. In the event of an outbreak, the BFSA imposes control measures. The BFSA also provides official statements to ensure that plants or plant products comply with the phytosanitary import requirements of other countries. Now that bacterial fire has been removed as a quarantine organism, the general control obligation in Belgium expires. However, the BFSA continues to provide official statements for countries that have plant health requirements for bacterial fire. This concerns in particular the use of PMI plant passports and the delivery of phytosanitary certificates. I've been in touch with my Flemish colleague on this file. The Flemish Region ensures and supervises the checks. As you say, bacterial fire is no longer regulated as a quarantine organism. The federal authority's competence in the area of awareness and information is limited to the buffer zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u44	Minister, your answer is clear. The BFSA does indeed have fewer powers today. That infection does not concern itself with regulation or our state structure. You say that we are solely responsible for sensitisation and information in the buffer zones. Good agreements must be made with Flanders and certainly with the municipal authorities. The infection is not only located in the buffer zones and may also occur in private individuals. I hope you will include this concern in the further discussions with Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament 55002448C and 5500246C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u46	Mr Minister, most food products in store shelves are marked with an expiry date, distinguishing between at least a sustainable date, after which freshness or quality may be reduced, but the product can still be consumed safely, and a use-to-date, which aims to protect public health. The date indication and the way it is formulated have a major impact on food waste. Studies show that 15% to 33% of food waste in households is due to confusion about the date designation. It becomes even more confusing when it appears that the food manufacturers themselves use both terms interchangeably. I would like to ask you this question following a concrete example of a jar of yoghurt, where the expiration date in French was referred to as 'à consommer jusqu'à' and in Dutch as 'to be used until', each other's correct translation, but in German as'mindesten haltbar bis', different from the previous two indications. For Dutch speakers and French speakers, the continued consumption of the product after the mentioned date is no longer considered safe, but apparently for German speakers. Minister, how is it possible that the actual expiry date differs from language group to language group? How can this be avoided from now on? How will you raise awareness about the significance of the date indication, including with a view to reducing food waste? Will you argue at European level for clearer date indications for food products that do not need an expiry date at all, such as coffee, pasta, rice and spring water?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u47	Mrs Van Bossuyt, it is the responsibility of the food producer to indicate the correct type of expiry date, date of minimum durability, THT, or the final consumption date, TGT, for the product based on all characteristics of the product. Therefore, the date type chosen may vary from product to product, even for apparently comparable products. On a package, the data in the different languages must of course be the same. When you find that a jar of yoghurt in Dutch and French has a final consumption date, while in German there is a minimum durability date, that is clearly an error in the labelling. In order to avoid unjustified differences in the choice of one or other type of date, the European Commission instructed the European Food Safety Authority or EFSA to provide it with a scientific opinion on the factors that operators should take into account to determine which type of expiry date, THT or TGT, is relevant, and to determine the duration and conditions of durability. The fight against food loss and waste does not strictly aim at the tasks of the BFSA, but the agency has gone that way in recent years. This is particularly the reason why the BFSA already developed a poster and a web page a few years ago that indicates the difference between both sustainability data for businesses in the food chain and for consumers. Also through posts on social media and articles in the newsletters of the BFSA, attempts are made to make clear the difference between "to use until" and "at least sustainable until." These initiatives are part of a policy that continues to give priority to the protection of consumers' health. You will agree that we cannot tolerate food safety at two speeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that a different translation or wording on the products is the responsibility of the producer. We will therefore have to look at how we can deal with the problem among producers, so that each language group can read the same type of date. I acknowledge that the BFSA has already taken steps to raise consumer awareness. Frankly, however, I believe that there is still a need to strengthen consumer awareness in this area, as a lot of food is being unfairly thrown away and thus wasted, which has both an economic impact and an impact on the environment. In my opinion, there are not many people surfing the website of the BFSA, to make sure of the problem. I have to admit that the posters to which you refer also escaped me. It is only when I started working on the subject that I became clear what great impact this has on the way we deal with food. I would therefore like to reiterate my call for greater consumer awareness, as I mentioned earlier, both because of the economic impact and because of the environmental impact of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u49	Mrs Van Bossuyt, my job and priority together with the BFSA is food safety. That's my job. However, I agree with your proposal to do more and with your proposal on the date. We cannot tolerate food safety at two speeds. That is the priority for me and for the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u50	Minister, I have also received your opinion, for which I thank you, following my proposal on food waste and date marking. In view of this, we shall make a few further amendments. I also understand that from your point of view, your first concern is health. My question was originally addressed to Minister Muylle, who is responsible for consumer protection. However, the question was referred to you. However, I will continue to stress the problem with Minister Muylle from the consumer's point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u51	Minister, kangaroos are not farm animals. The forest fires in Australia have shown that this population is having a very difficult time. Moreover, the treatment of kangaroos is not comparable to the commercial farming of meat. Apparently, the kangaroos are being hunted in the wild in a very cruel way, at night, in which many animals are injured. It's also about large numbers. A lot of kilos of these marsupials are imported. Several supermarket chains such as Delhaize, Aldi, Lidl, Carrefour and Colruyt have therefore decided to remove the meat from the shelves. Imported agricultural meat is also subject to standards that are also imposed on our farmers. Is it then justified to allow another circuit, certainly of animals being hunted into the wild, especially now that this population is struggling with forest fires? That is why I would like to ask you if you would consider a ban on imports? Do you have any other measures in mind to ensure that this population is spared?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u52	Mrs Van Camp, like all the wildlife in Australia, the kangaroos have also fallen victim to the terrible forest fires that have plagued that country. In consultation with the Order of Veterinarians, I recently offered the services of Belgium to help Australia in this area. I would like to stress that the majority of Belgian supermarket chains have decided not to import kangaroo meat anymore. That's important. The rules and conditions governing imports of kangaroo meat are based on the European regulation, whereby kangaroos are regarded as wild game. The European Commission shall determine the import conditions and draw up the model health certificate for meat and game. The Australian competent authority shall ensure that consignments comply with the import conditions and hygiene requirements. Official Australian veterinarians shall sign export licences guaranteeing the health of products dispatched to the EU. In Belgium, the inspectors of the Agency carry out their audit missions to ensure the protection of the health of consumers. It is therefore wrong to say that imported kangaroo meat is virtually not subject to controls. I hear that in the media, too. In addition, some analyses were carried out in 2019 on game coming from Australia and they were compliant. The Agency is not competent to monitor compliance with the rules on well-being during hunting and does not have the authority to unilaterally block imports of kangaroo meat from Australia into the EU. That is the competence of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. You say that the import rules are imposed by Europe, but I believe that we can also impose an import ban at national level. This has already happened in other cases. However, I see that you are denying this and I will look into it again. If that is not the case, it is of course a good thing that the supermarket chains have already imposed it. After all, they have removed the meat from the shelves, which de facto means that imports are restricted. We can continue along that path. If the import rules are regulated at European level and you cannot avoid them, you could argue there as a competent minister for stricter controls. You could also consider whether there can be no support for an import ban there, especially now that the population is suffering from forest fires. I believe that Mr Reynders once sent a letter at our request to charge the atrocities at the Yulin Dog Festival, where dogs are slaughtered for consumption. Maybe you could do something like that. At European level, you can work towards a support base for an import ban or measures to better monitor well-being. Then perhaps there could be at least a suspension for the period of forest fires. Furthermore, you could also send a letter to indicate that our society does not approve of this cruel hunting and ask for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u54	I'm not a foreign minister, and I don't have any commercial competence. As a minister, I am responsible for the BFSA which carries out the checks in the meat sector. I don't have any other authority. I think you should appeal to the Foreign Minister or another minister for your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u55	Mr Gilissen is not here. Mrs Dierick's question lapses, because it cannot, as requested, be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u56	Minister, the poultry sector fears an infection with the avian influenza virus, which is already ugly in Eastern Europe. More specifically, it is feared that the virus may spread to us via wild birds coming from infected regions. That's why the Flemish Farm poultry and Rabbit keepers are asking for a burrowing obligation, to be announced by the federal government. The economic impact is, of course, considerable in the case of a burrowing obligation, but not as great as in the case of a possible infection or epidemic, which would mean the destruction of poultry. Moreover, the virus that is now prevalent in Eastern Europe is of the highly pathogenic H5N8 variant, which is highly contagious and deadly. Minister, how do your services monitor the migration of the H5N8 virus? Is it appropriate to proceed with vaccination? If so, when? Will you answer the question of the Flemish Farm poultry and Rabbit keepers to announce a boarding obligation? Why is that, or why not? Will the obligation of housing be extended to private individuals, and how and when will you inform them of this? What further measures can you take? How and under what conditions can affected companies be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u57	Thank you for your important question, Mrs Gijbels. The migration of wild birds is currently the main risk of infection with the H5N8 virus. All Member States shall monitor the presence of avian influenza in wild birds through the examination of suspicious mortality in wild birds. This information on the mortality and infection of wild birds is shared through the European warning systems. At present there are no infections in Belgium. Only the bird migration route through Central Europe is contaminated, which is partly explained by contact with infected wild birds. Our country is not on that bird migration route. Ornithologists indicate that there are currently no movements from Central Europe to our country. However, vigilance remains necessary to detect rapidly an increase in mortality in wild birds. This monitoring is organised by the Regions, in close consultation with ornithologists and bird collection centres. The Food Agency shall be immediately informed of positive results. The risks of contact within the poultry sector should be controlled by bio-safety measures and precautions for persons, vehicles and materials returning from contaminated areas to our countries. The precautions applied throughout the year to avian influenza are stricter in our country than those in force in many other Member States. In addition to a series of bio-safety measures, for example, there is an ongoing obligation to store poultry from commercial holdings located in the nature areas where large numbers of waterbirds and migratory birds are present. All commercial companies throughout the country must also keep feeding and watering their animals. The BFSA reiterated these precautionary measures following the detection of the outbreak in Central Europe of the poultry sector. I am very confident that all poultry farmers, animal feed and other operators in the poultry sector will always apply these precautions correctly and strictly. They are the first and most important barrier against the introduction of avian influenza on a poultry farm. Should I possibly decide on compulsory storage, the precautions still have to be applied without prejudice. The protection of poultry is only relevant to the contact with wild birds. Under no circumstances can it replace the correct and continuous application of bio-safety. The rules on avian influenza provide for the possibility of additional measures in periods of increased risk. The rearing of poultry is one of them. Experience from previous episodes of avian influenza has shown that the rearing of poultry is a measure that should not be taken too quickly. After all, there is often a need for a longer period, sometimes for months. That locating doesn't always go smoothly. The stables of commercial poultry farms with outdoor walks are not always set up on a long-term confinement of the animals. This also means the possible loss of the qualification free run, sometimes it is a major damage. Also hobby holders who have to store up can quickly find themselves in a difficult sustainable animal welfare situation. I certainly do not exclude a more general housing scheme for commercial poultry farmers and possibly also for private individuals. However, this will only happen when this is relevant to our poultry as a result of the risk of infection. It's important to be in touch with the sector. In response to my question, the BFSA will organise a consultation with the sector next Friday to give a state of play and to exchange views on a possible retention obligation and other additional measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u58	Madam Minister, consultation with the sector is indeed the key. We must also make every effort to avoid a second disaster scenario, since they have recently been very badly affected. In any case, they are already having a hard time keeping their heads above water. Indeed, the sector needs to be listened to carefully, and then together we need to decide what is necessary. It will then have to be communicated transparently and consistently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u59	I will send you the long answer by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Arens' 55002789C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u61	Minister, I read in the discussion of the 2019 policy paper that you would order a study on the impact of neonicotinoids and, above all, the possible alternatives. I wonder whether we can expect results from that study that was ordered last year? I also read in the European regulation that after the approval of one of the neonicotinoids, in particular acetamiprid, all Member States must re-evaluate plant protection products containing this substance. What is the status of this evaluation in Belgium? Last month you decided that beet growers in Belgium would be granted an exception to the European regulation on neonicotinoids. What did you base this new exception on? I also read that at the moment and under these circumstances, the Recognition Committee for Agricultural Pesticides assumes that the emergency measure, which would run until 14 June 2020, cannot be repeated next year. Is that a statement? What's she based on? If you assume that there will be alternatives next year, isn't that a reason why you shouldn't allow an exception at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u62	Mrs Creemers, on 20 February, the Public Health Office will launch a call for a research project to develop a decision-supporting instrument for integrating the problem of alternatives in the decision-making process concerning withdrawal of plant protection products, with the neonicotinoids as a model. Applications for renewal of these products will be examined by the Rapporteur Member States, Austria and the Netherlands. Once Belgium has received these evaluations, it will be able to carry out its own evaluation. It is not known at this stage when the reporting Member States will provide us with their evaluations. Whatever the case, only one product was not applied for renewal. Accordingly, this authorisation was withdrawn. This product may no longer be sold, but the remaining stocks may still be used until 31 August 2020. The beet sector represents almost 8,400 jobs in Belgium. Following the example of the Ecolo-Green bill adopted by the Health Committee in spring 2019, I was in favour of a ban on neonicotinoids with phase-out for the sector so that it could provide more alternatives. In particular, these pesticides allow the protection of a range of crops against aphids that are very present in Belgium. Therefore, the beet sector had requested an emergency authorisation of 120 days before 2019. This is permitted by the European regulations in force, provided that a series of guarantees for bees are available. Since the situation has not changed in the meantime, a new authorisation was granted for 2020, but we have received news that this new authorisation was the subject of an appeal to the Council of State, which was rejected. As a reminder, this is a matter of special circumstances for Belgium. Moreover, this applies only to restricted and controlled uses and because plant production was threatened, a danger which cannot be combated in any way. This indeed corresponds to the opinion of the Recognition Committee. This decision is based on the fact that the approvals of the active substances thiamethoxam and clothianidine were not renewed at European level. It is therefore expected that insufficient data will be available in the future to determine whether the plant protection products concerned still meet the increasingly stringent authorisation requirements. If we agreed in the last parliamentary term for an exit phase, it is because I am convinced that we must get out of it. The transition phase should allow the sector and industry to find alternatives. Even though this is not the only cause of bee mortality, it is also important. We have given two more years, but we will not give any more, and the sector must hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that our bill, approved in committee, provides for a phasing-out until 1 January 2021, including the end of the current beet season. That is why I was particularly interested in the study you would order on harmfulness and alternatives. As I understand it, this is a study specifically into the Belgian circumstances, as you also indicate that the situation with aphids has not changed. During the discussions in committee and during the hearings, I saw that some alternatives emerged, such as the use of natural enemies, resistant varieties, plundering, better monitoring and prediction of the plagues. I would therefore like to know in particular whether an objective study has been carried out. It is not entirely clear to me from your answer whether that study has actually been carried out. We intend to re-table our legislative proposal, which explains my particular interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u64	The question was also addressed to Minister De Croo, but Minister Ducarme will answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u65	Minister, a while ago I asked you a question about the import of illegal meat through Zaventem airport, the so-called bushmeat or brousse meat. An effective approach to such activities is particularly important from the point of view of public health. After all, we never know which diseases can travel with the meat. Your answer showed that in cooperation with the BFSA targeted controls are carried out specifically on bushmeat. Meat that is discovered is seized and destroyed. Firstly, what criteria are used for targeted checks? Who is the main focus of controls? What are the countries of origin of the controlled flights? How many flights per country are controlled? From which countries, in particular, flights are controlled? Finally, what are the animals from which the seized meat comes? Can you divide the figures by country and species?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u66	Mrs Gijbels, allow me, first of all, to repeat that customs is the first line in this important dossier. In reality, the BFSA only provides support. In addition to the checks carried out daily by customs on passenger baggage, BACON actions have been carried out since 2012 at the different airports at which third-country travellers enter. Several authorities, in particular customs, the BFSA, the FAG and the Public Health Office, are involved in these actions. Controls are aimed at both foodstuffs and medicinal products, cosmetics and live animals. These are protected animals and plant species imported via passengers and entering Belgium from third countries. The controls shall be organised taking into account the risks that may be introduced and therefore vary over time. Each month one to two targeted controls take place at the major passenger airports and proportional at the smaller airports. Controls will focus on flights from Central Africa as well as from all other third countries. The seized meat is both farmed meat and bushmeat. In the context of a study, the CITES service carried out DNA analyses on 48 samples of more than 126 kilograms of bushmeat suspected to be present in 2017. The species concerned were determined by DNA analysis. The CITES service has the data on the meat that could be categorized as bushmeat on the basis of DNA research. The seized meat shall be destroyed in order to ensure food safety. The scientific research is not a task of the BFSA. Otherwise, I invite you to address your question to the Minister for the Environment, who is responsible for CITES and to the Minister for Health for the field of research.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-28-55-commissie-ic095x.u67	Minister, you have already indicated that there are several bodies involved in this issue. It has recently been found that it is estimated that around 44 tonnes of bushmeat pass through Zaventem Airport each year, while only 12 kilos were seized. That's just a shell. I believe that we need a coherent policy and a clear signal that we do not tolerate bushmeat, illegal meat. This is all the more true at the moment when we find that the corona virus is linked to illegal meat sold on the market. Maybe a virus that travels so far won't survive, especially if the meat has been treated. However, the slaughter of wild animals can cause infections for bushmeat, allowing such a virus to spread in the country of origin. It is therefore very important that we send a clear signal that we will not tolerate this in Belgium and that we will be closely monitored so that we do not create a market for bushmeat.
