ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are dealing today with a number of oral questions that are pending. The Minister can stay until noon. So we're gonna speed it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u2	Mr. Chair, is it possible, given the number of questions, and the availability of the minister until noon to turn my questions into written questions to get the answer quickly enough. We will not have time to exhaust the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u3	It's noted, Mr. Senesael. Questions Nos. 55008655C, 55008656C, 55008657C, 55008906C, and 55008907C are transformed into written questions. Mrs Dedonder has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u4	Minister, during parking checks carried out in Tournai in particular, agents check the validity of the cards by encoding PMR card numbers via the website, when they return to the office. If it's invalid, they write a VP. This has only happened a few times. If there is a card, it is, 99% of the cases, valid. However, the application on the website allows only the verification of the validity of the card. Unfortunately, this does not allow fraud to be verified, such as the use of a valid PMR card by someone who is not disabled, or to fight against possible copies of valid cards. With a good plasticizer and photocopier, these cards seem to be easily reproducible. It is also impossible to verify the identity of the card owner. Minister, can you indicate what is being put in place to combat the misuse of PMR cards by people who are not disabled? Do you think that's enough? Do you have statistics or figures on the abuses identified? What difficulties would be encountered in issuing non-reproducible PMR parking cards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, the SPF Social Security, Directorate-General People with Disabilities, has developed the Handi2park computer application, which allows you to check the validity of parking cards for people with disabilities. The card is identified as invalid in the following situations: the use of a card of a deceased person, the use of a card for which a duplicate has been requested, the use of an expired card and the use of a card with an invalid card number (falsification). However, the web application does not provide any information about the type of abuse or the identity of the person to whom the card was issued. The use of the application generates little or no additional workload, as it is regularly used in regular police services. The use of monitoring agents is likely to reinforce police action in this area. The number of findings made by police for irregular parking on a site reserved for persons with disabilities without a valid card, for the period from 2016 to 2019, amounts for 2016 to 29 292, for 2017 to 26 088, for 2018 to 22 657 and for 2019 to 24 236. With respect to your third question, since the card is requested from the federal public service Social Security - Directorate General People with Disabilities and issued by the same FPS, I cannot answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u6	Minister, thank you for these statistics, which are still very important. At the moment, if I understand your answer correctly, we do not have a solution to verify the use of a valid card by a person who is not disabled. Is that it? This is the responsibility of the monitoring officers and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u7	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u8	That's too bad. Maybe we'll have to try to find another system because it's a real problem that comes back to me every day. Thank you for your answer and I wish you a good continuation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u9	I refer to another document which is in fact the answer to the question I gave to Mr Senesael for his question No. 55007817C. I replied at the Committee on the Interior on 14 July, I think, that there are no developments or new elements in this matter. I therefore refer once again to the reply that Mr Senesael received.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u10	Thank you, Minister. I think it will be imperative to be able to ensure that the public market respects the most basic social rights because this was clearly not the case in this textile public market for our law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u11	Question 55007760C by Mrs Slegers has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u12	Mr Minister, in July I sent this question about route checks. These route checks can have a major impact on road safety. Research shows that the number of speeding offences is down by 78% and the number of accidents is down by 30%. Then the cameras will have to work, of course. In October last year I already questioned you about the lack of software in order to be able to use the already installed route checks. You then promised a solution by the first quarter of 2020. In the meantime, that has passed. What about the development and delivery of the necessary software? When will it be installed? What are the reasons for any delay? You also pointed out that the new ANPR cameras purchased under the framework contract of the Flemish Region would be directly connected to the national network of federal police. This operation was scheduled to start in December last year and would last for four months. Has this process been completed? If not, when can we expect this? A third persistent problem remains the capacity of the police to identify traffic offences. Bruges police are allowed to transmit up to 30,000 speeding offences a year, and they're already over that limit. What efforts can be made to increase capacity, so that traffic offences also result in an appropriate sanction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u13	Mrs Buyst, the central server and the new processing software are in full development. However, pending the delivery of these technological improvements, we can already process the images of the new route checks. The route checks should only be connected to the central server so that the Regional Processing Centres, the GVCs, can process the images. The first connection tests between the central server and the GVC have been successfully completed and are still ongoing. Once the test phase is completed, the images will be immediately available at the GVCs for the processing of the infringements. In order to have the necessary capacity to deal with infringements, a request for additional staff has been made. The file's still pending. If validated, we can strengthen our staff from 2021 onwards. On the basis of our initial analyses, we believe that this increase in capacity will be sufficient to address most of the new infringements. We are also convinced that the increase in the number of radars on our roads, coupled with the technological improvement of our resources and the increase in our staff numbers, will make it possible in the long term to significantly increase safety on our roads. If in the meantime all route checks are connected to a GVC, one can start to deal with violations, but within the current capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answer Tackling safety on our roads is indeed very important. Excessive speed is one of the biggest causes of death in traffic. So I am disappointed that it takes so long for the system to work properly. I hear that the first tests are going well and that the images can be read, but I hope that the connection to the central server will be made quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u15	Mr Ravyts, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u16	Yes, Mr President, for a small speech on the regulation of work. Under item No. 40 also raises questions about the federal part of the processing of breaches of trajectories. I suspect that your answer partly overlaps with your answer to Mrs Buyst's question, Minister. You are now talking about the central server. For a good understanding, you mean the federal database, I suspect. Are we talking about the same thing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u17	Yes, but the server is of course an application mode of the database.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u18	Yeah, but it also refers to the lack of that federal database. May I assume that your answer will overlap with the one you have just read out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u19	I'll look it up. The answer is the same, but it also concerns a number of other issues. Shall we deal with this question later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u20	Yes, out of respect for Mr. Raskin. Excuse my intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u21	Minister, I refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u22	Dear colleague Cogolati, on July 10th, the Tihange nuclear power plant conducted a periodic test to ensure the proper operation of the Tihange 2 turbine isolation valves. Following this test, a vapour release occurred in the Tihange 2 engine room, the non-nuclear part of the plant. ENGIE Electrabel immediately decided to shut down the reactor in order to investigate the cause of this vapour release. From the investigations, it appears that the vapour release was caused by a leak at a turbine drawer. This is a secondary pipe that takes steam from the turbine to preheat the water at the outlet of the condenser. Since then, the Tihange nuclear power plant has made the necessary repairs but has also carried out checks on other such pipes. This technical problem is not of human origin, the leakage being due to an unexpected problem of erosion and corrosion, accelerated by local flow. ENGIE Electrabel brought the incident to the attention of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA), in accordance with the terms of the technical regulations for reporting events. The International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) analysis led to a zero level. With respect to the AFCN communications related to the level 0 INES scale, I refer to my answers to your other questions this year, specifically questions 981913 and 6648.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u23	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my call for greater transparency in the publication of incidents, including INES 0 incidents on the AFCN website, which should most certainly promote communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u24	We now come to Mr Tim Vandenput's question about maintaining the wearing of mouth masks in shops from 11 July 2020, question No. 55007885C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u25	Mr President, Minister, since my question concerns measures that have been taken since 11 July, I suggest that I do not ask this question, but I ask that the written reply be received.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u26	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u27	Minister, a number of years ago, your predecessor, Minister Jambon, took steps to update the outdated nuclear emergency plan. I have some questions about this. The website of the crisis centre states that the KB of 17 October 2003 is still applicable. Is that correct or should the website be updated? To what extent does the corona crisis affect a possible adaptation of the nuclear emergency plan? What lessons can be learned from this? Work on the disposal project of low-radioactive waste has started. Was nuclear emergency planning adapted to the new situation of the above-ground storage in Dessel? If so, how? If not, why not? The public consultation on the management and disposal of highly radioactive and/or long-lived radioactive waste just ended. What are the next steps planned to adapt nuclear emergency planning to future choices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, the current nuclear and radiological emergency plan for the Belgian territory came into force by royal decree on 1 March 2018 and is being revised every 5 years. This KB was published on the website of the National Crisis Centre. Although several pages of this website already referred to the current emergency plan, the services of the NCCN have noticed that the web page to which you referred was effectively dated. She's been updated by now. The update of the nuclear emergency plan shall take into account, inter alia, the emergency planning evolution, national recommendations, expert studies and results of exercises as well as real incidents. The management of the current crisis is currently being evaluated by the NCCN and the resulting insights will be discussed in the preparation of the five-year review of the nuclear emergency plan. If a nuclear emergency occurs in the current context, the provisions of the nuclear and radiological emergency plan shall remain in force. The various authorities will use all possible means to manage the combination of both emergencies and to protect the population, the food chain and the environment from harm. As for your question about the disposal project for low-radioactive waste, only the preparatory work for the construction of the Dessel surface storage facility, namely deforestation and leveling works and administration for the administrative building, the conventional storage building and the fence, has been carried out. This does not require a nuclear licence, but only a licence under the Flemish regulations. The nuclear licence application is still pending. The adaptation of the nuclear emergency plan should not be completed until the operation of this installation starts. When a decision on geological disposal is taken leading to a nuclear licence and when installations will be built effectively, emergency plans will be dealt with in parallel with permit applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for the answers and I am pleased that the web page has been updated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u30	Mr President, for these and the following four questions I refer to my written questions, because our time is limited. Minister, the integrated police have a division of powers in which the federal police support the local police. For example, small municipalities do not have drones or command cars. These are used at major events such as rates. It would be inefficient if they were to hold these purchases for annual events for the rest of the year. This kind of backup can perfectly be provided by the federal police. However, since the Jambon Act, it is possible that private individuals provide these resources for local police and administrative authorities. However, we see a particular role for the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u31	How many drones, command cars and dog teams do the federal police have? Does the supply meet the demands of the local corps? Do you see that more local police areas turn to the private for these supportive means? Are there any figures on this? Wouldn't it be cheaper to buy these funds from the federal police to coordinate their use for the local police areas? Would it not also make it possible to make more uniform risk analyses on the use of these resources throughout the territory? Do you see a tendency in which the expertise in the use of this type of material, i.e. drones, is likely to increase with the private rather than with the police? We ask ourselves these questions because we see two worrying developments. First of all, we see that the mayor of Antwerp is buying more and more specialised material and thus undermining the division of powers between federal and local police. This seems to us to be a danger to the proximity police. Secondly, we see a strong growth in the private security sector. This will in the long term represent a growing threat to democratic control of security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u32	Mr Colebunders, I assume you are replicating per question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u33	Mr Colebunders, in reply to your question, I note that, as you have pointed out, the law on integrated police provides for a division of tasks between federal and local police. The local police are responsible for the base police zones. The federal police provide specialist police care and support to the local police. However, there are no monopolies on the means of aid, nor is there an obligation to use only the federal police's support resources. Local police have a budget and can use it to provide themselves with the most appropriate means to carry out their duties. It is the responsibility of the local authorities, in particular the mayors, police colleges and police councils, to weigh up the opportunity. The Air Support Directorate of the Federal Police or DAFA currently has five twin-engine and two single-engine helicopters as well as two smaller ones. The support offer has been expanded with four multicopter drones. In the future, DAFA will continue to invest in high-tech drones of the type VTOL or vertical take-off and landing. In addition, some other federal police support services may also have drones, in particular the coordination and support services of Brussels and Limburg and the Public Security Directorate. Several federal police services also use drones themselves as part of their mission, such as the shipping police and road police. In the local police, 14 police zones own their own drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u34	The Department of Dog Support of the Federal Police has a diversified range of dog teams. That board today includes 16 detective dog guides, 21 drug dog guides, 4 human-rest dog guides, 24 explosives dog guides, 3 migration dog guides and 3 fireplace detection dog guides. In addition, there are 12 patrol dog guides. The local police have over 300 patrol dog guides.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. It is not clear which direction we are going to take in the coming months. That is why we will continue to follow the matter critically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u36	Of course, civilism and solidarity with working people are the only means of sustainably asserting the measures, but we call on you to send a clear signal to the supermarket staff that they are not only facing some obstacles that threaten to compromise everyone's security. The police must take measures to ensure their sense of security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u37	Mr Colebunders, it lies initially in the tasks and responsibilities of the administrative police to prevent, deter and ensure compliance with the rules. In my view, there is no need for additional instructions. All citizens and population groups who make an emergency call can count on intervention as soon as possible. The priorities are set out in a local intervention policy, which is implemented operationally by the provincial communication and information centres, the CICs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u39	Mr President, Mr Colebunders, at the level of the bet there is no difference between an inspector who performs a function of 'neighborhood operation' and an inspector who performs a function of 'intervention'. Depending on the date of entry into service, both are subject to an annual job allowance of EUR 495,79, not indexed. However, by Royal Decree of 20 June 2019 amending the current legal status of police staff, that function allowance has become deafening. The difference is found in the irregular performance, night, weekend and additional performance. An inspector intervention performs more irregular performances than a district agent. In its recruitment campaigns, the police ensure that the various career opportunities, as well as the different police services, are always highlighted. Specific recruitment campaigns can certainly be set up to highlight basic features that are difficult to fill in. In addition, during the recruitment fairs or virtual information days, colleagues from the field are always present who can provide the potential candidates with clarity about the tasks packages. The district agents are also represented on such exchanges if they have permission from their area. At jobpol.be, candidates can also contact colleagues, including district agents, who can warm up potential candidates for the service. Since the laureates choose their place of employment during the training, it is advisable to encourage the prospective inspectors for the function of district agent during the training. This can be done on the initiative of the various zones. An awareness campaign can also be launched in the context of the employer branding, in which the various basic functions are put forward. Here we can just give some extra attention to the workings of the neighbourhood and the benefits of these services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u40	Minister, it is no secret that we also have a great deal of sympathy for the district agent. We do notice that there are remarkable wage differences on the ground. You just explained what that might be about. So we are once again asking for more bets on the district agent. With regard to wage differences, I suggest that other solutions will be found in the future, so that the remuneration of the district agent becomes attractive again, as the future sits with the district agent for a great deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u41	Minister, like many other sectors, sex workers also went into lockdown. Unfortunately, in practice, the activity shifted from the legal to the illegal sphere. This carries with it possible dangers, namely that human trafficking is increasing, that prostitutes are less able to assert their rights and that control of certain security measures may include condom use or loss of protection against disrespectful customers. Have the police noticed that there was an increased activity in the illegal environment? What are the relationships between the police and the sex workers sector? Does the police manage to have a clear view of what's going on on the premises? What steps did the police take to ensure the safety of the sex workers during the lockdown? For a few weeks, prostitution has also been released from lockdown. Some safety measures are preserved, think of wearing a mouth mask. Does the police succeed in enforcing these measures? Is there any contact between police and sex workers to help enforce the rules there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u42	Mr Colebunders, in the first phase of the lockdown, the police authorities have established that advertisements for services of a sexual nature have taken preventive measures with regard to COVID-19, in particular by promoting virtual meetings. Just to be clear, it's not because it says that it's a virtual encounter or virtual sex, that sex workers and customers can't make other appointments via phone or email. Nor can it be excluded that certain criminal groups active in prostitution have abused the situation to secure significant profits. Digital platforms on which sexual services are offered are mobile, numerous and extremely varied, just think of websites, advertising sites, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, WhatsApp, Viber and Tinder. Only putting pressure on one particular advertising site threatens to complicate the good cooperation between the administrators and the police. It can also ensure that sex workers who advertise on that site move with their customers to other digital platforms. Since last summer, after the gradual easing of measures, the websites have stopped their prevention messages and the advertisements look like before the lockdown. Clearly, because of the nature of the activities, the prostitution sector is very difficult to control. The activities mainly take place in the private sphere, and customer and prostitute meet more and more digitally. The relationship between customer and sex worker makes it impossible to comply with social discrimination measures. The only possible response if the police detects infringements in an intervention or inspection, in addition to any other usual procedure, is to draw up a report on the infringements of the coronamat rules as laid down in the circular 2620, both at the expense of the prostitute and the customer. At the same time, we remain particularly attentive to potential victims of trafficking in human beings using the circular 01/2015. For the position of the judicial authorities, I must refer to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u43	It is a pity to note that, in the current crisis, a lot of people are getting richer and the corona measures are failing. We are therefore calling for more action to be taken, particularly in this sector, in which women are being put under pressure. This is the only way to combat certain practices in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u44	Mr President, Mr Colebunders, as regards the stock of individual protective equipment in the assisted areas, this is the responsibility of the employer and it is therefore up to the employer to take the necessary measures to ensure that the personnel are protected in terms of well-being and safety at the workplace. At present, there are no longer any problems in finding these protective equipment on the market. The test capacity and test policy are a competence of my colleagues in the health department at federal and regional level. Furthermore, as early as March, i.e. at the start of the crisis, I asked for a business continuity plan to be put in place, with agreements between fire stations, so that an outbreak of COVID-19 can be remedied. The principle also applies to the police that every employer, i.e. the federal police and every local police area, is responsible for providing protection equipment to its employees. The Integrated Police Task Force COVID-19 has always ensured that the needs of the integrated police were defined and delivered to the Task Force-De Backer and any other organisation responsible for the public procurement of COVID-19 protective equipment, even the FOD BOSA or the Ministry of Defence. In addition, the federal police have already taken the necessary steps to establish the necessary stock of alcohol gels and mouth masks, so that the federal police can develop specific forms of mutual assistance for local police areas that are temporarily having difficulty supplying their own suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In my question, I am clearly talking about a second wave, not a wave, as we are now experiencing. We have heard from various sources that there is a small stock, but for a real wave the question is what time we can catch it and for how long. You have just said that we have sufficient stock at the moment, but the question is how big the wave will be and how long it will last. The responsibility lies, of course, with the competent authorities, but I think that we at the federal level, and certainly with the Home Office, have a responsibility to ensure that, in the event of a second or even third wave, we do not end up in a situation similar to that of March to May.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u46	We now come to the joint question No. 55007998C by Mrs Taquin and No 55007998C by Mrs Taquin and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and However, the authors are both absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u47	My question, Minister, is that there is a BE-Alert trial in Tihange tomorrow. I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u48	Mr President, my colleague, in view of the Royal Decree establishing the nuclear and radiological emergency plan for the Belgian territory of 1 March 2018, the emergency planning zones have been extended and now set at 20 km around Doel, Mol-Dessel, Tihange, Borssele and Chooz and 10 km around the National Radioelements Institute (IRE) of Fleurus. All municipalities in the 20 km emergency planning area around Doel, Mol-Dessel and Borssele in Holland have joined the BE-Alert system. The municipalities located in the emergency planning area set at 20 km around the Chooz power plant joined the BE-Alert system with the exception of Viroinval, Hastière, Philippeville, Florennes, Honnay, Dinant and Couvin. The municipalities in the emergency planning area set at 20 km around the Tihange power plant joined the BE-Alert system with the exception of Modave, Donceel, Neupré, Geer, Remicourt, Esneux, Oreye, Awans, Crisnée, Saint-Nicolals and Hamoir. The municipalities in the emergency planning area set at 10 km around the Institut National des Radioélements de Fleurus have joined the BE-Alert system with the exception of Aiseau-Presles and Fosses-la-Ville. Citizens in a municipality that has not yet joined the BE-Alert system are, however, beneficiaries of the BE-Alert system through provincial and national alert campaigns. The status of the acceding municipalities is updated on the BE-Alert website. With regard to your question about the number of subscribers, I can tell you that 1,609 Huy citizens subscribe to the BE-Alert system and 1,850 Hutois addresses are registered in the BE-Alert system. BE-Alert also makes it possible to reach all existing gsm devices in a certain area, whether the recipient is a subscriber to BE-Alert or not. The effectiveness of the BE-Alert system and its localized SMS mode compared to the old Seveso sirens has been demonstrated on a regular basis. During these years of service, the electronic siren network was tested quarterly to assess the effective triggering of each unit. However, the effectiveness of the siren network in terms of sound coverage and the good understanding of alert messages by citizens has not been established in a structured manner. The BE-Alert system is tested every first Thursday of the month. The localized SMS mode is tested specifically every three months. During these test periods and during their use in real-life situations, the BE-Alert system and the localized SMS mode have demonstrated their ability to deliver a clear message to a large number of citizens or to citizens in a defined area. The localized SMS mode has shown on several occasions, unlike the sirens network, its usefulness and performance in the context of alerts and real-life situations. We can mention its use on 8 August 2020, following the fire of a company in Stabroek, and on 22 July following a fire at??. The number of participating municipalities is not yet known, but last year more than 200 municipalities took part in the national test on 3 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u49	Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer. However, I note three shortcomings in the current BE-Alert system. First of all, several municipalities still seem to be missing out on the call, which surprises me. This refers to the district of Huy-Waremme where a Class 1 facility is located, namely the Tihange nuclear power plant. Six or seven communes in this district are not subscribed to the system. I wonder why no reminders were sent to them so that they could join the movement. On the other hand, the number of registered citizens is relatively small. Indeed, 1,609 citizens out of a population of 21,000 who are direct residents of a class 1 establishment is not huge. Finally, I would like to point out that the old Seveso sirens could have been added to the SMS alert system. During the night, the phones are off. In doing so, you cannot be alerted by SMS, as you can be alerted by a Seveso siren that gives the alarm in an invigorating way throughout the region. Anyway, I'll follow this file carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u50	Mr President, Minister, on 24 April 2020, ENGIE Electrabel submitted the action plan requested to AFCN. After analysis, AFCN approved this plan. What actions are needed to bring the storage (DE) and deactivation pools for each reactor up to standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u51	What actions will be taken only if the government decides to extend the operating time of certain reactors? Do they all appear in the action plan? Could you forward to Parliament a list of the actions required and priorities in case of an extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u52	What is the exact scope of the new seismic rules (R-8)? What are the current flaws? What actions are required with regard to seismic standards at Doel 1 e 2, and when should they be carried out? What is the scope of the new flood rules (R-9)? What are the current flaws? What actions are required with respect to aircraft fall standards? What is the definition (what is the type) of "representative" commercial and military aircraft imposed by AFCN (or taken over by Engie Electrabel) for the application of the new AR to Doel and Tihange? So are there two different reference standards (= 2 different aircraft types) for each site? Do spent fuel pools currently meet seismic standards or outside events, or do they need new safety studies? What are the current gaps in swimming pools?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u53	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, as you mentioned in your question, the operator ENGIE Electrabel has drawn up an action plan following the publication of the new safety requirements for nuclear installations. This action plan was approved after analysis by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and was published on the Agency's website in full transparency, with full details and deadlines. To answer your questions, I first need to clarify the scope of the new requirements of the Royal Order prescribing the safety of nuclear facilities. The new requirements apply to nuclear power reactors, which include their deactivation pools but not the independent storage building in Tihange, the DE building. This building is not part of these facilities and is therefore not regulated. For reactor deactivation pools, ENGIE Electrabel must carry out probabilistic studies within the time limits set in the royal decree to which I refer you for the precise deadlines. With respect to design review and natural phenomena requirements, it is a two-step mechanism that is applicable. Studies are under way and, subsequently, on the basis of their results, concrete actions will be undertaken if necessary. For the other elements, it is impossible for me to answer at this stage. Studies are under way to identify improvements to be made to the various units.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u54	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u55	Mr President, my question concerns the essential movements. You can read all about this in the question I have tabled. We have received complaints from people who had to make essential journeys for business reasons, but were still stopped at the border, because they were not allowed to make that movement. It was not clear which additional documents they were required to provide to demonstrate that it was indeed an essential transfer. What is the specific scheme for essential movements from Belgium to countries inside and outside the European Union? Why is there hardly any information on this? Can you confirm that business travel is indeed an essential movement and is therefore permitted? Is there a checklist of obligations for companies and businesses that they have to meet in order to be in order for essential relocations, such as a business trip? Is there a specific service in which companies and companies can ask questions and obtain correct information? Is it right or wrong that someone should be banned from travelling abroad for an essential business trip? That person had already arranged all the necessary airline tickets and hotel bookings. If you believe that that person was unjustly stopped at the border, will he be reimbursed for the costs incurred? If so, where can he go for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u56	Mr Van Bossuyt, as you point out, Article 18 of the Ministerial Decision of 30 June still contains a ban on non-essential travel to and from our country. This ban applies to countries outside the European Union, the Schengen area and the UK, but also to regions within that area that are referred to as red. It is true that the ministerial decision does not contain a definition of what is an essential journey. However, this information can be found extensively in the FAQ on the info-coronavirus.be website. The list of frequently asked questions contains detailed information under the heading "International" on the possibilities and conditions for travelling to and from our country, both inside and outside the EU or Schengen area. For movements to regions classified as red within the EU, 14 categories are listed which fall within the definition of essential travel. Eight of them concern professional movements. The definition of essential travel outside the EU is more limited and based on the European Council Recommendation of 30 June 2020 on temporary travel restrictions for non-essential travel to the EU. The Recommendation contains eleven categories of travellers who are exempted from the prohibition, as their destination is assessed as essential. Also in that list professional motives prevail. These include the movement of professionals in the health sector, certain public sectors such as diplomats and employees of international organisations, seafarers, and the movement of highly qualified professionals where their work is necessary from an economic point of view and cannot be postponed. In other words, not all professional movements are allowed from countries outside the Union. There are no specific checklists to prove the destination. One can prove it with any plausible evidence. The Foreign Affairs Office can provide more information on the procedures to be followed by those who wish to travel to Belgium from third countries for essential professional reasons. It is not possible to deal with the case you mentioned, also because elements of it are not displayed. A citizen who considers that he, or a company that believes it was wrongly prevented from leaving the country, can challenge the decision in the same way as is possible for other administrative decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u57	Minister, I think you should be given a price for the speed at which you read your answer. Some diplomas mention the number of attacks per minute; I would give you one with the number of words or signs you can pronounce in a minute. I've tried to follow your answer anyway. I understand from your reply that outside the Schengen area not all professional movements would be covered. I believe that it is not clear to many people that they are not covered by that rule. You say the matter is dealt with in the FAQ. We have not found that answer either; it is a bit hidden that the parties concerned should turn to the DVZ. That link doesn't make a lot of people at all. That is why I am in favour of clarifying the rule for professionals. Here it was very specific about a company that carries out a lot of activities in Dubai. The scheme should be made clearer to operators so that they do not face such problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u58	Has Electrabel had to modulate the production of Doel or Tihange nuclear reactors due to the heat wave to limit water warming? Could you tell me the warming of the water of the Meuse in particular? Does drought have the least impact on thermal discharges from Belgian nuclear power plants (depending on the reduction in stream flow)? Does Electrabel have to take more than usual to cool the Tihange or Doel facilities? Over the past 20 years, what has been the impact of global warming on the activity of Doel and Tihange power plants (only from the point of view of thermal discharges to watercourses)? When has modulation (or even the stop) been necessary in the last 20 years? Is the concentration of chemicals or treatment products also higher given the drought? More broadly, what is the impact of the heat wave on the operation of ventilation, safety equipment and on the cooling capacities of safety systems for the evacuation of reactor power? Were the maximum temperatures used for the safety calculations for the storage of spent nuclear fuel and reactors not exceeded this summer? If so, how did the PSAN respond? Shouldn't equipment be replaced by new equipment that is better maintained at higher temperatures (especially in the light of the global warming in the coming years)?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u59	Mr Cogolati, this summer's heat wave required a 48% reduction in the power of Doel 1 nuclear reactors from 15 to 17 August and Doel 2 from 13 to 18 August. This reduction is required by the environmental permit of the two reactors when, for 30 days, the average temperature of the cooling water released to the Scheldt exceeds 32 degrees. Doel 3 and 4 reactors did not experience a decrease in their power during the summer. Tihange 1 and 3 reactors have been shut down for overhaul. No decrease in the power of the Tihange 2 reactor was required during the heat wave. The temperature downstream of the plant climbed to 27.4 degrees. This nuclear power plant is allowed to discharge cooling water into the Meuse up to a temperature below 28 degrees in order not to damage the flora. This threshold has therefore not been exceeded. The situation remained in line with the regulations imposed by the competent authorities, in this case the Walloon Region. In addition to the temperature, the flow rate of the Meuse is constantly monitored by the operator. It remained sufficient to allow the operation of the Tihange power plant. For the Scheldt, the problem of loss of flow does not arise. Over the past twenty years, twenty-one power attenuations have taken place in Doel and Tihange due to heatwaves. They were divided as follows: Doel 1: seven, Doel 2: five, Doel 3: one, Doel 4: three, Tihange 1: three, Tihange 2: one, Tihange 3: one. As regards the concentrations of chemicals or treatments in cooling water discharged from power plants, there were also standards defined by the Walloon Region. These aspects do not fall within the competence of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Maximum operating temperatures established by the facility safety reports have not been exceeded. As regards the nuclear fuel used in Tihange, it is stored either in the deactivation pools or in the pools of the DE building. The cooling capacity of their refrigeration units has always enabled the nuclear fuel to be properly cooled. As part of the previous 10-year reviews, the equipment was checked to meet the heat wave criterion with a 100-year return period. Further studies to assess the impact of even more severe heat waves, considering a period of ten thousand years, are under way, due to the new requirements in terms of natural phenomena. Where necessary, concrete actions will be defined to strengthen the holding of equipment at high temperatures. For the rest, I refer you to the answers to other questions on your part that I will not list.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u60	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u61	Minister, the incidents in Blankenberge have caused a great deal of public concern. More autonomy was requested for the local government and at the same time pointed the finger at the federal level. I share your view that this is a very transparent game. Your statements in committee in response to the incidents on the coast have persisted. You were critical of the local authorities who lost valuable time during the incident. Recently, I learned that the Brussels police will join forces with colleagues from Blankenberge. Together, they fight against young people from Brussels who set up the bathing city. From Brussels, specialists 'Jongerengangs' will drop to Blankenberge. Partly to identify the troublemakers of Saturday, but also to avoid similar incidents in the future. This seems to me to be a good initiative. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. How will this cooperation between the Brussels police and PZ Blankenberge-Zuienkerke look concrete? Is a plan of action drawn up for this purpose and are you involved? Could you give me some more information on the problems that occurred during the incident of the local authorities in Blankenberge? What recommendations do you have to deal with such incidents proactively in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u62	Mr Vandenput, cooperation between the Brussels police zones and the Blankenberge-Zuienkerke police area was spontaneously offered by Brussels colleagues with a lot of knowledge about the Brussels city gangs. The problem that arose was that a number of young people, who subsequently turned out to belong to Brussels city gangs, appeared to be strongly influenced by alcohol and inhaled nitrous oxide and initially harassed female beachgoers. They settled in a beach bar, where they normally have to pay for the use of the infrastructure. When they were approached, first by the beach bartenders and then by the beach rescuers and the beach police, that degenerate into a riot, throwing projectiles at the beach rescuers and the police. They were recruited by other young people on the beach with a migration background. The police have initially formed a cordon on the beach with the staff present to protect those present on the beach from the projectiles. The police didn't use force. An offensive operation was not carried out because the young people would then spread, causing problems elsewhere. Nor has the police withdrawn, because that would mean that the area would be abandoned to the young people in question. This approach was subsequently assessed as the best approach by our Brussels colleagues, specialising in the action related to Brussels city gangs. The Blankenberge-Zuienkerke police area immediately called a scramble upon the outbreak of the riots, sending all surrounding police zones and the federal police their available teams to the scene of the incident. Once there was sufficient police capacity and when young people began to move and spread themselves on the beach, the potential perpetrators of criminal offences and administrative arrests were arrested to restore public peace. Afterwards, the police in the city continued patrolling and continued to act during a riot in a case near the sea dike. In that incident, goods were stolen and there was another small riot. Eventually 9 lightly hurt policemen and one among the beach rescuers were counted. The local detectives conducted an intensive investigation into the fact that ultimately led to the arrest of eight offenders. A ninth unsub is still being tracked down. Contact was made with the specialists in Brussels city gangs of the Brussels-Capital-Elsene police zone to gain more knowledge about the phenomenon. Police intelligence was exchanged between the two police forces on a judicial and administrative level. After the riots, the police area of Blakenberge received reinforcements of about 30 men for a day. Together with the mayor, the initiative was taken to launch ten beach coaches with a migration background on the weekend following that of the facts, together with job students-beach coaches, in order to facilitate communication between beachgoers and to ensure compliance with corona measures. These ten additional beach coaches were screened in advance by the police for their suitability for this assignment. Now that the summer season is over and great efforts have been made by the police to ensure compliance with the corona guidelines, the entire season in general and the riot of early August, in particular from the safety cell of the city of Blankenberge will need to be analysed and thoroughly evaluated in order to draw lessons for the future. We want to do this professionally and carefully and cannot therefore anticipate the conclusions of this exercise. At the end of that incident, I announced a legislative initiative on a ban on places, which is now part of my services' legal analysis and is also part of the negotiating papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput's 55008528 is converted into a written document. Question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u65	At the end of June, a young woman visited a Brussels police station in order to file a complaint of verbal gender-based violence. As provided for in article 3 of the Act of 22 May 2014, such violence is punishable by imprisonment from one month to one year and/or a fine of EUR 50 to 1000. However, after having delayed her several hours before receiving her, the services refused her, thus denying the existence of a legal basis for this type of violence, but also violating the law on the police function obliging the services to establish a PV as soon as acts of violence were reported to them. This young woman was forced to turn to another police station which, on the other hand, agreed to register her complaint. Although the first Brussels police station seems to have acknowledged its error in making a request for training to raise awareness of gender-based harassment, this example of dysfunction is in fact part of a much broader problem. Police stations do not have all the necessary tools to understand gender-based violence and to accommodate victims, so many women prefer to turn to their friends and family rather than to the police. As a result, can you let me know whether police support services for victims in police areas are sensitized to gender-based violence? If, like what has been done with the judiciary on sexual violence, mandatory training could be provided to the police to sensitize them and provide them with the necessary tools to adapt their response to victims of gender-based violence? If, if so, there is a consultation with your colleague Minister for Mobility, to extend this type of training for public officials, at least those likely to be on the front line to respond to this type of violence, such as public transport drivers or escorts? Do you have statistics on the number of incidents of sexism reported to the police, broken down by year and by police area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u66	Minister, a few months ago I asked you about possible problems with the registration of complaints about sexism by the police. There would be too little knowledge of the sexism law in the police, which would also prevent some complaints from being registered. However, you did not answer all my questions about this. I would therefore like to put these questions to you again. In addition, it has recently been found that local police officers in the Brussels-North area will receive specific training on street harassment and gender-related violence from autumn onwards. That training comes because, according to the police chief, it is often difficult for officers to identify the facts, especially if there is no physical violence involved. Cops learn to recognize facts, how to catch a victim appropriately, and how to set up a PV for street harassment. The police area therefore also recognises that in practice there are still problems with the knowledge of the anti-sexism law and the preparation of CVs. I have the following questions for you. Are there any clear guidelines for the police on the anti-sexism law? What are these guidelines? Will reference officials also receive information on the anti-sexism law and its application (COL13/2013)? If so, what information? If not, why not? Is there another reference officer for the anti-sexism law? According to Minister Muylle, you would have an investigation conducted into the handling of complaints about sexism by the NICC. Has this investigation been conducted in the meantime? If so, what are the results? If not, when will the results be available? Agents in the Brussels-North police area will receive training on street harassment and gender-based violence. Do you want to make such training possible for other corps as well? If yes, in what form and against when?If no, why not? Don't you think this is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u67	Mr President, without questioning the merits of possible non-professional interventions, I do not agree with an assessment of individual cases or generalising them to all police forces and police officers. Complaints can always be made to the Chief of Staff, depending on the internal functioning of services or individual staff, regardless of a complaint to the Inspection Services. Compliance with the legal provisions of anti-racist and anti-discrimination laws is a priority in the work of the Federal Police. This is reflected, among other things, in the broad outlines of the diversity policy and the objectives of the 2016-2019 national security plan, which was extended until 2021. Infringements of the Anti-Sexism Act are verbalized. This applies to any crime motivated by hatred, contempt, hostility or a sense of superiority towards an individual or group on the basis of sex or to reduce an individual or group to its sexual dimension. In addition, the field intervention guide provides additional practical guidelines for situations involving discrimination, including sexual crimes and hate crimes. In addition, the reference officer for discrimination and hate crimes acts as a point of information for police units and areas in case of additional issues or problems. The practical guidelines for the reception of victims of sexism in the public space are included in the field intervention guide and are available to all staff. Concrete advice is given in order to establish an optimal record. "Discrimination and hate crimes" reference officers in the police, designated in accordance with letter 13/2013, undergo mandatory two-day training during which gender and sexist laws are addressed. In addition to the legal provisions, tools are also provided in the form of good practices from other areas/units, checklists for interrogations, exchanges with the competent prosecutor, etc. Ms Soors, in the drafting of the law of 22 May 2014 on combating sexism in public space, the federal police have done the necessary sensitisation to publicize the legislation to the staff. To this end, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men was invited to give information sessions. Internally, the legislation forms part of the training of trusted persons in the field of well-being in the workplace. A working group is currently studying the extent to which the training of street harassment and gender-based violence can be included in the training of the national police academy, i.e. at national level. The deontological aspects are also presented at the level of basic training. In addition, the course of deontology offers a first acquaintance with professional values. The issues of equality between men and women, non-discrimination and the protection of human rights are also discussed. In addition to basic training, there is a new training on polarisation within the integrated police and the possibility of further training in the fields of deontology, anti-discrimination legislation and diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u68	Thank you, Minister. The purpose of this question was not at all to agree on a particular case. That's for sure. I wanted to hear from you about a structural problem. Our police services do not appear to be sufficiently equipped to deal with complaints of sexism. It's a real problem, because the victims know it and talk to each other. All too often, therefore, they do not want to assert their rights. I think this is a phenomenon that we really need to take seriously. Indeed, sexism is what is at the beginning of a chain that, as it goes, leads to violence that is increasingly problematic, more and more important and even physical. The media and associations are doing a lot of awareness-raising work. But besides that, it is important to enable our police officers, through their training and retraining programme, to make them capable of identifying this sexist crime and thus to enforce this famous law. You have not answered my question with regard to front-line actors, particularly public transport drivers. It is known that sexism manifests itself in public transport in particular without complex. I will therefore question the future minister in charge of public transport on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you gave some clarification. It is indeed about the importance of a structural approach rather than your response to individual cases. However, the existence of individual cases clearly points to the need for further refinement of this structural approach. In this sense, I am curious about the state of play of the research carried out by the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology. It is a pity that you did not refer to it. I am also looking forward to the results and findings of initiatives, such as in the Brussels North police area, to continue training on sexism for their police personnel and hope that further efforts will be made in the next government period because it is a real problem on the streets that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u70	Question No 55008192 by Mrs Thibaut is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u71	Mr President, I refer to the text of my question. Minister, domestic and domestic violence has increased considerably during confinement. It was therefore essential to adopt a national emergency action plan to respond to the plight of the victims, to protect them and to avoid many tragedies. That was precisely the subject of the motion for a resolution which I tabled with my colleague Matz and which was adopted on 11 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u72	Three months later, it is up to us from the voluntary sector that if confinement now seems to be behind us, the acts of violence against women have not fallen, but on the contrary. It would seem that some, because in the loss of landmarks, jobs and future prospects, discharge themselves by harassing or raping women, as if they were exits. Therefore, can you let me know where you are in the execution of the requests contained in this resolution of 11 June for the establishment of an emergency plan to facilitate the complaint and protection of victims of domestic violence or couples in the context of the health crisis of the coronavirus/COVID-19? What is the planned timing and with which actors? I am thinking in particular of: • raising the awareness of police services of the accommodation solutions put in place by the different levels of authority for victims as well as for perpetrators • the widespread use of risk assessment tools for domestic violence throughout the country's police areas • the promotion of protocols of agreements between police areas with 24-hour service and those without • basic mandatory police training on the reception of victims of domestic violence; • the extension of the online reporting platform to cover threats, harassment and injuries, which may be accompanied by a cat • issuing a circular to all Belgian police stations asking them to contact all known victims of domestic violence and couples • widespread cooperation between police stations and associations for the care of victims of domestic violence • the need for governors to put in place a specific protocol of guidance for official pharmacists."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the period of VOCID-19 has certainly and unfortunately accentuated the problem of domestic violence and violence between partners. Even more than urgent measures, structural measures are needed, as reflected in the resolution on the establishment of an emergency plan to facilitate the complaint and protection of victims of domestic or marital violence in the context of the health crisis of VOCID-19, adopted on 11 June. However, I would like to point out that, already on 8 May, a first Interministerial Conference (ICM) on Women's Rights had met to endorse a number of measures to combat gender-based violence and, in particular, domestic violence and violence between partners. After consultation and consultation with experts, professional and voluntary actors, and after analysing the measures proposed in the so-called Parliament resolution and the recommendations made by the Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (GREVIO), in its interim report to Belgium, the CIM also approved guidelines and the installation of working groups on 26 June. Several measures are proposed. Some of these can be easily achieved and are currently done. But you will understand that other measures to be deployed take longer because they require, for example, multidisciplinary consultation or have a significant organizational impact. It is therefore important that the integrated police and 184 local police forces, as well as federal police entities, cooperate actively in the development of these measures through the ICD working groups. Mrs Rohonyi, I wanted to go through your eight questions in concrete terms, but in view of the time allotted for reply, I would ask you to introduce this aspect in written form. My services guarantee you a response within a very short time. By way of conclusion, the approach in the fight against this type of violence can only be effective when each player in the chain is doing what they are committed to doing, which means a collective and shared responsibility. You can count on the involvement and commitment of the integrated police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u74	Minister, I regret that I have no more concrete answers to the various points. I will therefore do what is necessary and therefore my question will be addressed to your successor. I regret that, especially since this is really a vital necessity. Indeed, as I said earlier, if the victims are not properly cared for, they remain in this cycle of violence which can get worse and, therefore, also unfortunately become fatal. Following the various inter-ministerial conferences, measures had indeed been put in place, especially working groups. This is very good, but here too, at some point, it must lead to concrete answers. You were just quoting GREVIO. It had just issued a report in which it was beginning to lose a little patience, in the sense that it regretted that measures had not yet been taken, particularly in view of the lack of consultation with the federated entities. I therefore hope that the Interministerial Conference will be able to work more at this level. We can see that some countries, such as France or Spain, are able to adopt measures. It would therefore be truly inaudible that, in our country, because of our institutional complexity and sometimes also perhaps lack of political will, we cannot take the same measures as those taken abroad, which are also working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u75	It is well known that speed check informers, such as Coyote, are still very popular in Belgium, although there is a ban in countries such as France. What is less known is that there is also a system that ratts out the presence of police cars on its own, using the ASTRID network. On the Internet you can buy a device for less than 1,000 euros, which collects ASTRID signals. Criminals can of course use that system very conveniently, because they are warned when a police car arrives and can quickly get out of their way. It seems clear that this system poses a safety risk and that it needs to be regulated. I have some questions for you. Are you aware of the existence of these systems that can intercept signals from the ASTRID network? What is your opinion of these systems? Is it legal in our country to intercept signals from the ASTRID network? If not, on what basis is that prohibited? Is the use of such devices, in your view, a breach of the law on electronic communications? Have people already been convicted of using, or buying or selling such devices? If so, would you like to do so, and would you like to take steps to prohibit the sale of such systems, or to restrict the free sale? Why is that? Why is that? There seems to be an important security risk associated with the existence of these systems, since they indicate the presence of police cars. How do you estimate the safety risk of these systems? Can the police arm themselves against this security risk? In what way? Are there systems that can intercept not only the signal, but also the communication? What is your view on the use of snitches in general? Do you want to ban Sniper Systems like Coyote? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u76	There is absolutely no question of listening to radio communications on the ASTRID network, which is highly secure and encrypted. Your questions relate to the electronic systems that can be purchased via the Internet and are now seeking different techniques to receive the ASTRID signals, which allow drivers to circumvent traffic controls, but which also allow criminals and terrorists to detect the presence of the police. These systems pose a threat to a thorough and effective road safety policy. In 2013, ASTRID purchased and tested a copy of this device. The device mainly detects signals from a radio that transmits. The exact location of the radio is not displayed. ASTRID remains vigilant with the development of such applications, but cannot even do anything to avoid the production, sale and use of such equipment. However, it is not possible to cloak the radio waves. So any device that emits waves is by definition detectable. Article 62a of the Road Traffic Act prohibits any equipment or other means by which the detection of infringements of the Road Traffic Act and its implementing decisions hinders or complicates or automatically detects equipment. In practice, the ban covers a variety of devices, the radar informers of which are only one species. These are systems that make the plates unreadable. In 2015, the police found 256 violations of this, in 2016 188, in 2017 229, in 2018 390 and in 2019 738. When the police detect such an infringement, they shall, as required by the circular COL/2006 of the College of Attorneys General, contact the competent prosecutor's office with a view to immediate withdrawal of the driving licence. The offences are punishable by a prison sentence of 15 days to 3 months and by a fine of 800 to 8,000 euros or by one of those sentences alone. The apparatus shall be automatically seized on the spot by a competent person and shall be forfeited by the court. The court may also decide that the right to drive a motor vehicle shall lapse for a period of not less than 8 days and not more than 5 years. The holding, commercialisation and use of these devices in Belgium infringes the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications. Radio communication may not be bugged or intercepted, but it does detect a possibility of communication. Acquiring and using that knowledge is also a criminal offence. The law on electronic communications falls within the competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. He is also authorised to restrict the sale of certain electronics. It is foreseen that the ASTRID radio network, which has been put into operation by the police and other security services since the late 1990s, will be replaced by a safer system with mobile signals. Centrex Road traffic has no knowledge of the equipment that allows for listening to the communication. The integrated police are aware that such apps often rat out its checkpoints, which makes these systems both for and against. However, it is difficult to prohibit such uses, let alone to control them. It's a reality that the police are learning to deal with. It reacts to it with smaller, but mobile dispositions, allowing multiple sites to be reported as control at the same time. That has a positive impact on the subjective costume. With regard to speed checks, route checks are further rolled out by road managers. The effectiveness of these devices is greater because drivers are encouraged to comply with speed limits over a longer distance. There is often also an obstacle and/or accident notification in such apps. They then contribute to the prevention of secondary incidents. In addition, the apps that also have a route planner can propose an alternative itinerary. By working with these applications with the Traffic Centre, the alternative routes can also be controlled to keep obstacles on the underlying road network more limited. The notifications via the apps can also be transmitted to the Traffic Centre, where you can check the information, broadcast it and insert it into the traffic information via different media channels. In a future in which connected vehicles become a reality, such systems will be indispensable in mobility and road safety policies. The role of regulator is for the government. What seems to be a threat now may be a tool tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am somewhat reassured to hear you say that radio communication itself cannot be tapped. I understand that it is technologically difficult at the moment to make the transmission of signals undetectable, although that is, of course, sufficient for some to conclude that the police are close and possibly stop their illegal activities. Thank you for your detailed answer. Given the time, this may have been the last question I could ask you directly. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and the debate over the last few months. Good luck with everything else you'll do. See you soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u78	See you very soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u79	Mr President, my questions have already been raised in committee. I shall now turn to my question No. So pull in 55008311C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u80	Mr President, the same applies to my questions. 55008426C and 55008427C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u81	Mrs Thibaut is not present for her question No. 55008463C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u82	Mr President, Minister, the Chovanec case has been the front page of the press in recent weeks. We will let justice do its job and maintain our trust in it. We will also be waiting for the results of the internal investigation that is under way within the police. Apart from this very specific case, how far can the use of coercion by law enforcement and emergency medical services working alongside law enforcement agencies go? We know that in this case, a sedative was administered to the victim without his consent but on instructions from a doctor, on the ground that the police could not control the person in question. Minister, what is the procedure that allows a physician to administer substances to a person arrested without the person's consent? Do coercive measures other than the administration of calming substances exist in the event that the police fail to control the person arrested and protect others like the person himself? What is the legal basis for the administration of a calming device to a person without his or her consent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u83	Minister, the events at Charleroi Airport which led to the tragic death of Joseph Chovanec have left a deep impression on everyone. It is now right to consider how this could have happened, where mistakes have been made and how we can avoid this in the future. 'Cause I really can't let something like that happen again. Several investigations are currently under way, and several hearings have already been held in Parliament. What is already clear is that things have happened that cannot be tolerated. What is also clear is that the flow of information to the executives, whether conscious or not, stopped. . This process raises a lot of questions, not just about the events in Charleroi. The question arises as to whether or not such matters are deliberately hidden in other services or in certain police areas. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Does the Minister know about cases in other federal police services or in certain police areas where the flow of information stopped and those after the events in Charleroi are suddenly being raised? If so, what is the case? Are there any figures on this? Have any measures been taken in the context of these possible cases? If so, which one? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u84	Mr President, I shall reply successively to the questions put by Mrs Gilson and then by Mr Demon. Mrs Gilson, in case of emergency, if the patient or his representative does not have the opportunity to give his informed consent, a doctor is, in accordance with Article 8, § 5 of the Law on the Rights of the Patient, authorized to carry out immediately any necessary intervention in the interest of the patient. This is an application of the state of emergency in which the physician provides emergency assistance. This rule forms part of the legal obligation of assistance provided for in article 422bis of the Criminal Code and justifies intervention without prior informed consent. When a physician enters the profession, he or she already declares his or her intention to put the well-being of each patient at the forefront in his or her Hippocrate oath. In any case, such an action must be used as a last resort under the responsibility of a doctor and must be carried out by the doctor. He must first try to calm the person down. A doctor may only administer sedatives, with or without the assistance of the police, if the patient continues to behave violently and refuses to cooperate. There are measures other than the administration of a sedative. These are usually coercive devices that restrict a person's physical freedom. On the one hand, this is often only a partial restriction and, on the other hand, very specific coercion and violence will often be required in order to implement this mechanism. The use of these means requires additional and specific training. Mr Demon, as a result of the events in Charleroi, no similar incidents were reported to me. As early as 28 August 2018, the Commissioner-General set out for the federal police the organisation and coordination of the national raid point in the new note to vote the three separate operational permanentities. This was also a recommendation of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on terrorist attacks and allows better information management in the event of an event or similar incident. Furthermore, on 21 August last, the Commissioner-General explicitly reminded his executives of that note and the other existing notes on the reporting of security incidents and their strict application. In addition, the P Committee will examine the need to improve existing processes. If so, the directives will of course be amended accordingly. You also mentioned that appsirants are starting to drop out, even if they have already successfully completed their training. There is currently no concrete figures available on the current recruitment movements, which have started, even if successfully completed. That information round will not be launched until later. So I have no knowledge of any information about this. As regards the staff member to whom you referred, if he or she resigns, he or she is not obliged to inform the staff member of the reasons for his or her resignation, although the reasons for leaving the service are always examined in the context of after-care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u85	Mr President, my question is, in fact, entirely secondary. However, since it is the final round of questions with this Minister of the Interior, I would like to thank him and his cabinet for the more than professional commitment during the last non-evident period. Minister, I hope we will see each other again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic272x.u86	I fully agree with that.
