ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u1	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as Minister of the Interior and welcome you to our committee. We hope to see you here regularly to discuss with you and ask you questions regarding your powers. Madam Secretary, today there are a lot of questions. There are also two topical debates on the agenda, which you actually inherited from your predecessor. Questions about violence against police and emergency services have been pending for a long time. The questions about emergency power stations are more recent. Colleagues, the Minister has also informed me that she can stay with us until 5.30 p.m. We will therefore try to maintain strict timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, since I am the first speaker today, I congratulate you on your new function and welcome you to Parliament. Minister, the Brussels firefighters have once again been victims of aggression in recent weeks. Several of their vehicles were targeted, inter alia, by Molotov cocktails, while urban furniture, vehicles and buildings were damaged. Both at the level of the residents and of the men of fire, anger and exasperation are present. The spokesman for the Brussels firefighters has recently stated that men and women in the field are waiting for firm answers to these acts. The SLFP filed a notice of strike following these recent events. The trade union also denounced an increase in the number of cases of attacks on firefighters in Brussels. It shows a figure of 43 attacks in 2019, a figure contradicted by the Brussels minister in charge of the SIAMU who believes that "such events are uncommon". Minister, regarding the events of September 4 and 5, can you take stock? What happened in practice? Were any of the wounded to be deplored? What is the material balance in firefighters? What other degradations have been observed? How many administrative and/or judicial arrests have occurred? As far as the situation in general is concerned, can you tell us the number of attacks on firefighters that took place in Brussels in 2017, 2018 and 2019, by differentiating physical and verbal attacks? Can you also tell us, for each of these years, how many injuries have resulted, as well as how many people have been arrested for these acts? Is it possible to have the same figures for police services? Finally, Minister, what tools do you have to improve the situation and combat this phenomenon? What concrete steps have been taken in this regard? What do you intend to do in the short and medium term to meet the security expectations of relief services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u3	Madam Secretary, I too congratulate you on your appointment. In my opinion, you are one of the most important ministers of the current government. I had tabled my question just before your oath to the attention of your predecessor and fellow party, but we did not get to that. Your predecessor came to the media on 24 May 2020, including the vtm journal and the newspapers, which demonstrate that there is already zero tolerance towards our emergency services and that there will never be any need to report on violence against emergency services in the news. With that he kicked in an open door, because it remained with words. Since then, we have been confronted almost weekly with violence against our police and recently with firefighters. I was therefore very pleased that in the coalition agreement the new government is going again for zero tolerance against violence against our police, which you may have worked hard with. During the discussion of the government statement in the week of 28 September, the President of the Chamber did not allow thematic debates, as the general discussion lasted until about 3.00 a.m. I was sorry to hear that, but so be it. I would have liked to ask you exactly how you see this zero tolerance against our police or fire department. This morning I took part in a meeting of the Conference of Mayors, an advisory council, which also discussed the item. We are now expecting 1,600 extra agents in the field, but no one could answer the question whether this means 1,600 new agents in the field each year, or whether the replacement ratio should also be taken into account. In the case of violence against the police, we see that the number of agents is always undernumbered. We therefore sincerely hope that this will be about net numbers, annually. Madam Secretary, those are two sweet questions to begin with. I hope you can give me a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u4	Madam Minister, I had submitted an interplay request for your predecessor, Mr De Crem, because we are often faced with violence, not only against the police, but also against emergency services. Certainly in Brussels, that is a very big problem. I have listed a number of examples in my interplay. The most poignant example is the deliberate arson on the night of 27 August 2020 to force the firefighters out and set them up, and then smash them up. Luckily, no one was hurt. Of course, the firefighters involved are very impressed. They can't really place the facts. This entrapment makes the eyebrows frown. There was canning damage to vehicles and a complaint was also made to the police. Another example is the ringing of police and fire services on the weekend night of 5 to 6 September 2020 in the Brussels Marollenwijk. Because the problems are so intense and do not stop, we have already held a number of hearings with the people on the ground here in committee at the beginning of July 2020. During these hearings, Network Brandweer and Fire Weer Vlaanderen, among others, have tied the cat to the bell about the violence that is being committed against the fire services. They have also provided a comprehensive note on this subject, which all Members can find on Parliament's extranet. They also propose a number of measures, not only in the area of justice, but also in the area of police and civil servants. I have listed a number of these measures, which I believe are relevant and which I believe could also be implemented very quickly. The first is the creation of a victim fund to provide immediate compensation for aid workers who have been victims of intentional acts of violence. That victim fund in turn recovers that compensation from the other party. Aid workers who have been victims of violence must be able to count on a guaranteed wage and the full reimbursement of all medical costs. Secondly, it is also important that they should be able to count on intervention and assistance from the police when there is aggression or entrapment by a well-known person or at difficult times, such as New Year's Eve or at demonstrations. Thirdly, every employee should be able to count on free legal aid in case of aggression. Fourthly, every case of aggression should be registered centrally. This system must be accessible to all disciplines in order to obtain and maintain a complete view of the problem. Finally, policemen or aid workers who have been victims of violence always put forward this constant: a change of attitude is needed. They stress the fact that the public authorities should make much more use of an awareness-raising campaign. The public must be very aware that an aid worker and a police officer must be protected and not attacked in any form whatsoever. Those were a number of proposals from the Firefighters' Federation. My specific questions do focus on the two examples I have mentioned. How does the police investigation proceed in response to the facts cited? Is it possible to speed up the implementation of the action lines drawn up by the associations of firefighters and other relief services, which I have just listed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u5	Minister, it is my turn to congratulate you on your new duties. You will not be bored at this position: there is work to be done and we will not miss opportunities to talk about it. In recent times, various attacks have taken place against rescue services and firefighters in particular. Such violence is, of course, unacceptable. In this context, I would like to ask you whether any special measures are taken for their benefit when they depart in intervention, in certain areas considered to be at risk. After such facts, what psychosocial support services are available to relief workers? Is a specific service available for rescue services or should they turn to ad hoc police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u6	Minister, my colleagues have referred to a number of recent developments, including those of August and September last year. From week to week, we see increased violence against relief services, which are increasingly present in the field but also in the press. That's deplorable. We had already heard of certain acts of violence, but the frequency of these concerns me. Minister, can you take stock of these numerous attacks? Do you have a detailed analysis that could explain this resurgence of attacks on our relief services? Can you report any arrests as a result of these attacks? Can you tell us about the different levers and means that you have, or have decided to implement as a result of your taking up office, to improve the situation and combat this phenomenon? I would also like to know what you can do to respond to those on the ground who are waiting for answers from you, namely concrete measures that you will implement in the short and medium term to meet the high expectations of relief services. The spokesman for the Brussels firefighters has reported this on several occasions in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u7	Are there any colleagues who would like to speak? Mr Demon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u8	Mr President, excuse me, but I had difficulty getting into the meeting. I would like to table a simple motion after your speech, Mr President. I delivered it to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u9	Okay. The secretariat has received the appropriate document. Madam Secretary, you have plenty of time, because there were a lot of questions and an interplay. So I will not put a time limit directly on your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank you for your congratulations and warm expressions of welcome. Home Affairs and Security are indeed important issues that concern you all, as I am concerned about. I hope that we in this committee will be able to tackle many of the interesting challenges that exist on the ground. Mr President, Mr De Maegd, Mr Metsu, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Chanson, the problem of violence, and in particular violence against the police and emergency services that we have seen recently, is a social trend which I am fighting with all possible means. The safety of our policemen and aid workers, who are responsible day and night for the safety of the people, deserves our utmost respect. Their justified sighs are also mine and those of all employees. The creation of a victim's fund to provide immediate compensation for aid workers who have been victims of intentional acts of violence is not so easy, because of the distinction made by the Criminal Code between violence committed against police personnel on the one hand and violence committed against staff of other emergency services on the other. Police personnel fall within the scope of Article 280 of the Criminal Code, while the other professional categories fall within the scope of Article 210a. In the latter case, it concerns firefighters, ambulances, members of civil protection, escorts, controllers or ticket agents of a public transport network and postal service. If a solidarity fund is set up to compensate for the costs of violence committed against emergency staff, it would be coherent that all occupational categories under Article 210a of the Criminal Code could fall within the scope of this Solidarity Fund. As Minister for the Interior, I can of course only comment on firefighters and members of civil protection and not on the other categories covered by the application of Article 210a of the Criminal Code. An accident at work caused by violence shall be treated in accordance with the rules laid down in the administrative statutes of the fire department and civil protection. My services are currently analysing what costs would not be covered by this scheme. They will examine, in cooperation with all the representatives of the various sectors, what costs could possibly be covered by such a solidarity fund. Furthermore, the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides that when a staff member of a relief zone or civil protection service is sued in court or when a criminal action is brought against him for acts committed during the performance of his duties, he or she is entitled to free legal assistance. This legal aid is therefore currently not foreseen when a staff member becomes the victim of aggression. In practice, therefore, the relief zones themselves make a complaint to the police on behalf of the staff member concerned in such a case. In this way, the court fees are borne by the relief zone. This method is not prescribed and has not been codified anywhere, but it is a choice of the aid zone itself. A change to the law of 15 May 2007 is necessary in order to ensure that workers of the relief zones and civil protection can always use free legal assistance when they become victims of aggression. Currently, the services, in cooperation with the representatives of the sector, are working on a draft amendment to the Civil Security Act to make this possible. The fire department's intervention reports provide for a section on aggression against firefighters during an intervention, such as those referred to in the question. However, it should be noted that the number of notifications based on those forms is particularly low. In view of the importance of the registration of each case of aggression, attention is therefore paid to the reporting of each incident in these forms both in the context of training courses and in the context of a awareness campaign for firefighters. An incident can therefore be reported through the intervention report that must be completed after each fire intervention but also by registering a complaint with the police. Therefore, I cannot help but call on all firefighters again to report all incidents as far as possible. In this way, the whole problem can be better identified and we can see how its follow-up can best be done. The Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security and the Communication Service of the General Directorate of Civil Security are currently developing a awareness campaign aimed at firefighters. This campaign focuses on three risks faced by firefighters in the context of their work, namely hygiene, physical condition and, in particular, aggression. The campaign will be rolled out and distributed in all aid areas in the foreseeable future. Finally, I would like to say that the investigation into the facts of 27 August of this year is still ongoing. The firefighter was assisted on that night by a team of local police who was the first on the scene and was also crowned. The judicial investigation is currently focusing on analysing the available footage to identify the perpetrators. Mr De Maegd, Mrs Chanson, first of all, I would like to stress the worrying and worrying nature of the recent events against the SIAMU relief teams. I thank them for their professionalism and courage. As regards the incidents as such, the SIAMU informs me that, on the night of Saturday, 5 September, two self-propelled cars were attacked by Molotov cocktail jets in the Marolles district of Brussels. One of the vehicles was able to take shelter. The first autopomp who arrived at the scene asked for police help. No injuries are to be deplored. As soon as the police arrived, the intervention teams were able to carry out their mission of extinguishing the various fires. The equipment of the SIAMU was not damaged by the Molotov cocktail attacks. SIAMU informed my services that he had filed a civil suit as a victim with the prosecutor's office. He does the same with every incident. Generally speaking, it is up to the employer – in this case, the Brussels Region – to take safety measures for all its staff. In addition, following the sixth reform of the State, the Brussels Region has been given security powers in its territory. The minister-president and the mayors are therefore competent in this field. In addition, the possibility of using cameras on vehicles as well as bodycams is currently being examined by my services. This technique could provide useful and even necessary images for the prosecution of the authors. Mr De Maegd, concerning your sub-question, for which you are requesting statistics for the last three years, I invite you – given the numerical nature of your request – to ask me in writing. For the 4 September incident at around 11.10 p.m., a Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police team was sent to the Querelle district, following visible incidents from the federal police drone. Once they arrived on the scene, the police were subjected to stone-throwing. Two of the authors were arrested. As a result of the arrest, some 15 young people went out on the street to break the windows of a crèche and to destroy urban furniture and an electric cabin, depriving the residents of the street of electricity. In addition, they used fireworks as a weapon against the police. The incident resulted in the judicial arrest of two minors of age. The Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police area has drawn up an action plan. A strengthened preventive and repressive mechanism in the neighbourhood is under way. The police area concentrates all its efforts on an effective video system, by placing fixed and mobile cameras to identify the perpetrators of disturbances and other degradations. Mr Thiébaut, first of all, I would like to point out that the intervention of the services of the relief zones is carried out under the responsibility of the hierarchy of the relief zones. They are direct employers of firefighters. Emergency areas must ensure the safety of their employees in the workplace. Any special, permanent or specific instructions prior to the execution of the relief mission in the areas at risk may be issued by the hierarchy, such as the protection of personnel and equipment under certain circumstances, when firefighters are threatened by aggressive behaviour on the part of third parties or waiting for the arrival of the police before continuing the operation in progress or starting the rescue operation. Preventively, rescue zones may contact the police area concerned to explore the possibility of setting up, if purchased, a special mechanism or other supervisory measures during relief operations in certain neighbourhoods by the local police. The need for such measures will be analysed, on a case-by-case basis, by local authorities, including through zonal security plans. As regards the psychosocial aspect of the problem, the management of the psychological support of firefighters after traumatic interventions is also the responsibility of the employer. To support emergency areas, the Directorate-General for Civil Security and its Civil Security Knowledge Centre oversee the system and principles developed by the FiST (Firefighter Stress Team). This is the reception of the officer who was the victim of a traumatizing incident. There are, of course, other ways to develop psychological support. The decision is made at the level of the emergency areas. For example, we know that some areas use private firms to provide psychological follow-up. In addition, I wish to inform you that personnel in relief and civil protection zones who are victims of violence are protected from loss of treatment. When a staff member is a victim of violence in the performance of his or her duties, such acts are considered to be an occupational accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for this answer, which is not entirely complete. I will follow your suggestion to have a cadastre of this kind of events in 2017, 2018 and 2019 because, in reality, such a study is in my opinion important to rationalise and objectiveise these events and their recurrence, or even their increase. The means to be used to combat this phenomenon are in some way to make a diagnosis before making an action or reaction. But I hear your determination and your voluntarism to take this kind of problem with the body, and I am pleased with it. Madam Minister, the motto of firefighters is "save or perish". And when we attack those who protect us, those who protect us, it is in fact our own integrity that is consumed dangerously. It's our ideals that go in smoke. Despite the sixth reform of the State, as you said, which makes the Brussels authorities competent, some politicians in Brussels seem not to be taking the measure. If it persists, I invite you to do so seriously. It's inconceivable to me that we're deaf to firemen's calls, police calls. Inconceivable of not reacting severely when the common good is thus put at risk. To paraphrase the motto of the firefighters, not to save what must be in public authority, it is our democracy that perishes slowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u13	Madam Secretary, it's kind of the answer Pieter De Crem could have read three weeks ago. I was hoping you'd put it in your hand a little bit. I had two explicit questions. Firstly, will the 1,600 net extra agents be there each year or should we take account of the replacement coefficient? Secondly, however, and most importantly, I had the question of how you asked me that question again to your predecessor, which will guarantee zero tolerance. Those were my questions today, and I did not receive an answer. You are new and all respect, again, because it is a very difficult and important role, but I will continue to come back to that. That's a bit of a prelude I'm giving you: prepare yourself for it. After all, the coalition agreement contains a great deal of punishment for going to zero tolerance in relation to violence against our aid workers. You are now referring to Articles 280 and 210a on the Solidarity Fund. The aid workers are not looking for extra money, they want to work in safe conditions. That is their question, their call for years, and again I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u14	Madam Secretary, I am going a little further along the same path as Mr Metsu. You have indeed given a legally correct answer and referred in particular to articles of the Criminal Code and to legislation of 2007, but that is not the signal that people want to hear on the ground. There's got to be some more punitive language. I have always told your predecessor, Pieter De Crem, who was notorious for speaking harsh language in Parliament, that action must also be taken after harsh words. I am a little disappointed that you have given a correct legal answer here, but that everything is still in preparation and is not being dealt with directly, while the problem has been dragging on for a very long time. The water is on the lips of our emergency services and policemen. The zero tolerance and lick-on policy that your predecessor has repeatedly proclaimed must be translated into action, and that is where I am still a little hungry. I am therefore tabling a motion on the basis of my interpretation, not only for you, Madam Minister, but I would urge the whole government, because it is not only your competence, but also some of the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister who is responsible for ensuring security in order to take immediate action on a number of specific issues. I am thinking of a victim's fund, free legal aid, immediate zero tolerance towards the perpetrators and, of course, a awareness campaign. This should not be delayed, but should be started immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u15	Mr. Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers and clarifications. You send the ball back a lot to the zonal level and the local level. You mentioned the zonal security plan in particular, saying that certain priorities should be set in this zonal plan. I'm talking to you from the fire station in Mons. I'm president of the Hainaut Centre Emergency Zone. You refer to the responsibilities of zone managers. I feel like I'm under a lot of pressure. But there are subjects, such as this, for which local managers, precisely, expect federal assistance, are waiting for a concerted response from the federal government and also for a real response to their needs. I invite you, in the coming weeks, the next few months, to come also with solutions that would come from the federal, and not just send the ball back to the zonal or local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear your determination to deal with this violence. Thank you for being so attentive. I told you during my inquiry: expectations on the ground are high, and I hope that we can give them answers to the amendment in the coming weeks to guarantee, in particular, this zero tolerance, but also to come to concrete actions, by helping the zonal level, which, as my colleague Mr Thiébaut has just said, is also in demand of answers. I also sent you, along with this question, a written question to ask for an encrypted cadastre. I therefore hope that we will be able to obtain this answer quickly in order to better understand this problem, which will most certainly still occupy the discussions that we will have in this committee in the coming weeks. I thank you, already, for these answers, which are certainly a little incomplete, but I hope that we can continue to work together to stem this unacceptable problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u17	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, you can certainly answer further. You should know, however, that Parliament will have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u18	I have noted that there are still discussions and answers to be given to you. I will also make field visits in order to better understand the problem in the coming weeks. I've had a lot of contacts with the police in the last few days. Perhaps just a few more moments about the need for zero tolerance, without being exhaustive. The commitment to this is clearly stated in the coalition agreement: the determination of every fact, whether light or heavy, must be followed up. This needs to be further developed with the Minister of Justice. As stated in the coalition agreement, the opportunity depot must be avoided. This should be coordinated with the public prosecutors and should continue to be followed up with the relevant minister. Finally, Mr Metsu, the question about the 1,600 new recruitments. We know there's an annual outflow, we definitely need to catch that. On top of that, we need to be able to do 400 new recruitments a year, so that the deficit from the past period can be further eliminated. I insisted on answering this in advance and I would like to continue with you in the debate at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u19	Madam Secretary, you say you're exploring the market. It's a pleasure for you. I have already heard from the governors that you are very active in combating this crisis, for which I am grateful. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that we are opting for zero tolerance. Then we must not continue to point to the public prosecutors, but we must look at this House. We must therefore look primarily at the government, which is going to act very decisively. I've read tweets from State Secretary before. In the past it has also happened that Secretary of State is tweeting rather actively and that is now happening again. History is repeating itself a little bit. As far as the content is concerned, I am very curious about the result. You say we're going to 400 new recruits a year. I misread that. That is what we may have misread the budget table. It concerns 400 new or net recruitments a year. I've already spoken to the police unions. In the coalition agreement, it might as well have been said to evolve towards 20,000 additional recruitments. Why? Because the police schools can't handle it. That capacity just isn't there. Then you can say that you had planned it and wanted to do it, but that it just doesn't work out in the field. So my next suggestion is that you should also look at the source, where our new inspectors and captains are being formed, so that we can get out of the way of those net recruitments. However, do not kill us, as I asked your predecessor, with promises and fine figures as 1,600 extra net, if we know in advance that this is not possible. Let us know what can be done effectively and also look at the source, being the police schools. However, we will have these talks at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u20	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Ortwin Depoostere and the response of the Minister for the Interior and Institutional Reforms, - whereas police and emergency services have repeatedly been the victims of physical attacks in Brussels; - considering that fire services feel that they are being set up by having to pull out for deliberate arson, - whereas there is apparently a great impunity against the so-called 'young people' who commit these offences; - having regard to the hearings held on 7 July 2020 in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration with various representatives of police and emergency services suing violence against them; asks the government - to set up a victim fund to immediately compensate policemen and aid workers who were victims of intentional acts of violence; - to ensure free legal aid for any police and emergency services affected by aggression; - to implement immediately a zero tolerance policy towards the perpetrators in the form of rapid justice; - to launch a awareness campaign to strongly condemn violence against police and emergency services." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Ortwin Depootere and the response of the Minister of the Interior and Institutional Reforms, Whereas the police and rescue services have already been the target of physical assaults in Brussels on several occasions; - Whereas the fire services feel that they are trapped by being called upon to intervene in voluntary fires; - Considering that the so-called 'young people' who commit these acts seem to enjoy widespread impunity; - Considering the hearings held on 7 July 2020 in the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters with various representatives of the police and relief services, who denounced the violence against them; asks the government - set up a fund for victims in order to provide prompt compensation to police officers and rescue workers who are victims of intentional violence; - to provide free legal assistance to any police officer or rescue worker who is the victim of an attack; - to immediately introduce a zero tolerance policy towards the authors through the immediate appearance procedure; - to organise an awareness-raising campaign focusing on the unrelenting condemnation of violence against the police and relief services." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u21	Mr Bertels cannot be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u22	Madam Secretary, the emergency power stations were back on the news last week. At the end of 2017, they received 2 million additional funds to modernise. The ASTRID network was examined and the additional budget would allow calls to be answered more quickly by other power stations. Despite the additional investment, the personnel problem has not been solved. Recently it became clear that there is a shortage of operators at the emergency power stations 101 of Antwerp and Brussels. According to the trade union organisation, there are only 35 people at work in the province of Antwerp, while the staff framework provides 45 people. In Brussels there is a deficit of 40%. Understaffing results in high workload, absenteeism and, above all, longer waiting times for emergency calls. A few minutes longer waiting for an emergency call to be treated may in some cases mean the difference between life and death. We must at all costs avoid longer waiting times or a shortage of staff leading to more victims. Madam Secretary, has the talks with the trade unions taken place yet? If so, what was the outcome? Have the additional budgets made available by the Home Office effectively led to the modernisation of emergency power stations? Does the necessary bilingualism play a role in not getting jobs filled at the emergency power station in Brussels? Could an awareness-raising campaign be an option to highlight the attractiveness and need of the profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u23	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Colebunders or Mrs Lanjri, but I do not see either of them. If there are many questions on a subject, it is my prerogative to make it a topical debate, but I am counting on the enthusiasm of the questioners. That doesn't seem to be very big in here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u24	Mr President, since my colleague Mr Bertels could not be here because he is chairing the Finance and Budget Committee, I have been instructed to take this up. That is how his question can be dealt with. Madam Minister, I too would like to congratulate you on your new position. We have found that the call center 101 in Antwerp was overloaded with corona-related calls. Therefore, the waiting times for really urgent aid questions were enormous, and this shows that we have an understaffed service there, and that is very dangerous. The shortage of staff has been a pain for years. If there were 11 vacancies for Antwerp and only 2 candidates were found for the profile, then something is wrong. It is right that the trade unions have called for a rapid consultation with you to be able to discuss the situation. Madam Secretary, have you been able to take note of the current situation? What initiatives will you take to ensure that the number 101 is reserved for emergencies? Will you take measures, such as a separate campaign for Defence or the railways, to make the profession more visible and attract many more suitable profiles?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u25	Madam Secretary, I would also like to congratulate you. I'm sure you'll find a partner in Home Affairs in me. I always call myself a BIZA girl. I've worked there for 15 years with great pleasure. I know what great people are in the administration. I have a question about the call centers. Following the attacks, one of the recommendations to technically cluster 2 or 3 plants was for two reasons. It was easier to cope with a shortage of staff, especially at night or at weekends. In the event of an emergency, such as an attack or another major crisis situation, a power station could then focus on that event and take the other power stations than the normal calls. Can you tell me what's going on with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u26	Madam Minister, I had tabled a question, a little too late to raise it, but I would like to join the debate. The problem has been outlined. There's an understaffing. Madam Secretary, you have inherited a number of files, which do require some work. You can't do that either. There have been hearings with representatives of emergency power stations a year ago and the problem continues to drag on. Every now and then that flares up and gets into the media via a favourable wind, but we must be able to count on the new government team to do something about the sighs. Madam Secretary, was there any consultation? I realise that you will have to consult very much in the next few weeks, but the dossier quoted is very important. How can the profession be made attractive? How can you recruit more employees? Do you have a solution - one never knows - to correct the situation in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr Moyaers, Mr Ingels and Mr Vandenput, for raising this very interesting and important debate. In preparation for the answer to your questions, the administration provided me with an overview of staff shortages in the call-taking in the 101 plants. The recruitment of sufficient staff for these plants, which also applies to emergency power stations 112, is complex because of several factors, including the difficulty of finding sufficient candidates and the intensive training that candidates are required to undergo, as already outlined in the question. Indeed, it is not obvious to attract enough candidates for this particularly exciting job in some provinces. Moreover, it appears that there is still a certain fallout in the case of initially interested candidates. Some decide to drop out before they are contacted before taking up their duties. In addition, the duration of the training also plays a role. A calltaker obviously needs a certain level of training and training, because that function cannot be filled out. After taking a theoretical training course, which has been optimized by the police, but still takes three months, several months of internship are still required in the report room before a calltaker is able to take and handle calls in a professional way completely independently. In the short term, the situation is as follows. On 1 September 2020, a total of 60 new staff began initial training, in particular 30 candidate calltakers for the number 101 and 30 candidate operators for the number 112. In addition, additional selections are under way for the recruitment of a total of 54 additional staff. The aim is to be able to complete the recruitment of those staff and staff by this year. The reason for the difficult filling of these vacancies was asked. The answer to that question, as unfortunately often in important debates, is not easy. After all, we see that, in the selection round, we have quite a few candidates for certain provinces, while the situation in other provinces is systematically disappointing. I suspect that this also has to do with the better economic situation in certain provinces, which means that citizens in those provinces prefer a post outside or within the administration. However, we will not remain in the hands of the Council. First of all, we are looking at how we can increase the interest in the position, so that we have more potential candidates in Selor's selection procedures, which are organized every year. We will also look at how we can better link recruitment to the departure of former staff. Consultation with Selor can also be useful for optimization in the recruitment process itself. My administration will therefore examine with Selor whether the selections cannot be organized provincially. Possibly that could lead to more candidates. Until today, the selection procedures for calltakers 101 and operators 112 have always been organised nationally. Finally, a selection procedure is under way for the 101 Brussels plant, with a specific focus on attracting young people into a runway. If that proved successful for Brussels, this could also be a path to attract more candidates for certain provinces. Personally, I haven't had any contact with the unions yet, but I'm obviously looking forward to a first meeting with them. Mr Vandenput, the requirement of bilingualism certainly plays a role in fulfilling the functions of calltaker at the 101 Brussels plant. In addition to the success of the selection tests, the candidates must also obtain a bilingual certificate via Selor. That's not always a sign. The number of persons remaining after the entire selection procedure is therefore very low each year. Together with the federal police, which is responsible for the operational management of emergency power stations 101, we ensure maximum and in function of the possibilities for the rapid and adequate handling of calls from citizens in a situation where urgent police assistance is needed. As far as the Blue Line is concerned, I would like to point out that the 101 centres not only provide reactive emergency aid, but also observe a mission to obtain important police information. The police are responsible for the safety of society and its citizens. The 101 centres play a very important role in this. An adequate search can allow the police to act proactively and preventively, thus avoiding reactive emergency interventions and possible victimisation. A sufficiently thorough search is also necessary in the context of victim treatment. Care must be taken to ensure that all these tasks of the police can also be fully completed with the support of emergency power stations. I understand from the statements that many initiatives have already been taken in the past to highlight the profession of calltaker 101 and operator 112. There have been many different information campaigns, but much more importantly are the broadcasts of the emergency power station, which have scored well both in Flanders and Wallonia in terms of ratings and which give a clear picture of what working in an emergency power station can actually mean. A large-scale, separate awareness campaign may be considered when a large number of candidates need to be recruited, but here the challenge is not only to get the existing staff frameworks filled, but also to keep them filled. It is therefore necessary to recruit each year and, as has already been said, recruitment should be more closely linked to outgoing staff. It will therefore be important to keep the profession of calltaker and operator under review, so that there are always sufficient candidates available. The budgets you speak of were intended to develop a top provincial architecture for emergency power stations 112. The 101 police centres continue to operate at provincial level. The development of this top provincial 112 architecture, which has been delayed due to its complexity and which, in addition to a total new telephone application, also includes a renewed dispatching software, is in the final phase and will be able to be rolled out in all emergency power stations 112 of the fire department and medical discipline from next year onwards. The full roll-out of all power stations will take about two years. The top provincial architecture will allow emergency power stations to take over 112 calls from each other when, for example, a power station on its territory is faced with a major incident and coupled with a large increase in the number of calls. This setting can also guarantee the provision of services to citizens when an emergency power station 112 has to be temporarily evacuated by, for example, smoke development. The main reason for the introduction of this new work structure is clearly to further optimise the provision of services to citizens by reducing waiting times which, unfortunately, may be considered too long today in some cases. The working conditions of the operators will improve in this way so that they will have less to do with moments when it is impossible to quickly process the large number of calls coming in, which is of course frustrating for the employees and probably also demotivating in the workplace. An organisational model of interprovincial solidarity in the event of the collapse of a 101 plant had been developed by the police from the outset, in order to provide an answer to what you said in your question, Mrs Ingels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u28	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that progress has been made on recruitment, on the 60 that have started and on the 54 that have been planned, and on modernisation, on the basis of digitalisation. Those are very good steps forward. You also mentioned working conditions. If there are more people and if there are more modern resources, it will be much easier and more pleasant for those people to work there. They are sometimes dismissed as operators, but they are not, colleagues. They're the first police officers to meet citizens on the phone. We really need to put that job on the market as a first police officer or police officer, who needs to know everything on the ground a little bit, then make the right decision and refer it to the right person on the ground. So I think there is work to be done to make that profession even more attractive and to put these agents not on the market as operators anymore, but as first police officers, actually a remote district agent who knows what he or she is doing. Madam Minister, you have certainly proved in your reply that you have everything under control and I am confident that this will be fully resolved within a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u29	Madam Secretary, contrary to what my colleague Vandenput said, it is not a policeman who answers the phone but a neutral calltaker. That might be one of the problems. This is a file in which I have often bit my teeth, with a lot of good will and new projects. You're right, it's not just a job. Mr Vandenput is certainly right there. We must also be realistic, that is a job that cannot be done all our lives. We have to bear in mind that very good calltakers after 5 years or 10 years, I don't want to have a number on them, but that's what it will be, should just be able to move on to something else. Maybe we should set up a guidance trail. It is certainly true that technical innovations will help, but at some point that job can no longer be maintained. So we need to work on that. But perhaps we can discuss this further when it comes to your policy paper. Another point is the difference, and there we are very often bumped into the wall, in appreciation between police and firefighters. The fire department is concerned with medical assistance, fire and go, if the information is available, one can send it out. The police are involved in information-led policing, with chips that need to be created and then going to the dispatching. There's a lot of time in between and there's a lot of demotivation in those calltakers. They are then just a pass-through door and do not know what happens to it afterwards. In terms of motivation, that's important. Difficult for the Home Office is that they are not really responsible for how the police deal with it. The Home Office pays for that staff, but has nothing to say about how the job is filled. This too has a very long history and is a difficult note to crack. I suggest that we continue to debate the policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u30	Madam Secretary, it's a pleasure to meet you digitally. I, too, wish you every success in your appointment as Minister. Vias institute will investigate whether the ANPR cameras can also be used on our roads to prevent the use of mobile phones behind the wheel. This is already the case with our northern neighbours. If this test is successful, this could also be a good thing for road safety. The use of a mobile phone while driving is becoming increasingly important in cases of major accidents. Are you aware of the investigation of VIAS institute? By what time can we expect results? The existing legal framework would not be enough today to allow technology to do so. What adjustments do you think are necessary for this? Of course, catching offenders is important, but the subsequent steps in the chain should not be missed. Following a previous written question, your predecessor informed me that the ANPR network produced a lot of hits from, among other things, unapproved or uninsured vehicles. Often they were classified without consequence. Is that still the case today? In what way do you want to remedy this, so that offenders are also effectively sanctioned? Following another question, your predecessor expressed the intention that the hits should be reported to the police entity in whose territory the holder of the license plate is resident. How do you feel about your predecessor's intention? Finally, what progress has been made in building the national ANPR network? How many hits has the network gotten in the last 12 months? In the same context, I would like to talk to you about the absence of the ANPR database. Madam Minister, after ten years of waiting for the Mercury database, a database containing information on all Belgian driving licences whose activation has been postponed repeatedly, it is finally active. Unfortunately, it seems that the ANPR database is moving in the same direction. That central database shall collect data from all ANPR cameras for plate recognition. The start of the central ANPR Management System was scheduled for May 2018, but has been postponed several times. Minister, the new deadline put forward was September 2020. Has that deadline, first of all, been reached or has there been another delay? Secondly, could you clarify the cause of the repeated delay? Thirdly, what problems have not been resolved and can lead to additional delays? Fourthly, the Mercury database has been waiting ten years. Have any lessons been drawn from this to enable such databases to be used more quickly? If so, which one? Do you have any idea what procedures could be simpler and faster in order to avoid delay in the future? Finally, when do you think the database will be fully operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u31	Madam Minister, Mr Raskin has already asked a number of questions, which I also wanted to ask. In the long run, your predecessor, Minister De Crem, wanted to deliver all the reports and information from the ANPR cameras to the local police in the area where the license plate holder lives. The police today have very limited access to the first version of that national database. Normally there would be a second phase, with additional cameras and a second version of that database. The various local police areas, which have been asked for a long time, will be able to connect with them. Is that second version of the database operational yet? If not, are you planning to roll that out further? Could you possibly put a time on that? Finally, in the government agreement we can read that the aim is to facilitate regional road safety policy with the ANPR Management System, among others. Can you tell me what that means? Does it mean that the various local police areas will be given access to the network?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Raskin and Mr Moyaers, the ICT department in the Federal Police Department is committed to converting the ANPR Management System from a testing environment to an operational environment in the coming month, in cooperation with the parties concerned. The evolution towards a camera shield with increasing options and users will have to be done in steps. This is a very ambitious project and the various camera technologies must be linked in a national system. The AMS database, as you suggested, is the beating heart of the integrated camera shield. The database must interact with all these different technologies so that information can be exchanged. In the development of AMS, delays are partly due to technical reasons and the difficulty of working on large projects in a public context characterised by many and heavy procedures. Users should then, in turn, take a number of steps to bring the cameras within their domain of responsibility into line with current regulations. In particular, this complex and large but important project was impacted by the new GDPR requirements. In order to safeguard the privacy of citizens, various steps need to be taken, including the preparation of a privacy and risk analysis with presentation to the competent bodies for the processing of their comments, the adoption of special ministerial guidelines with associated legal advisory procedures and the signature of protocol agreements. As far as the operation of the Mercury database is concerned, I have to refer to my competent colleague, the Minister of Justice. The use of mobile phones behind the wheel is, as has already been said here, one of the major dangers in traffic, of which we must be fully aware. However, so far, the number of findings in Belgium has been relatively low compared to the actual number of potential infringements. In the current situation and context, these findings are carried out on the basis of interception in the act of the offender. I do not need to tell you that this is a very labour-intensive method, particularly on motorways. Therefore, all road safety partners, including VIAS institute, are asking for a system to be able to identify it in a more automated way. I am aware that there is a test phase in preparation for a mobile radar to carry out such determinations. Currently, findings of traffic offences involving unmanned automatic devices have evidence to the contrary, provided that the offence is included in the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002. Cell phone use behind the wheel is not included in that mentioned royal decree. Due to continuous technological progress, the Royal Decree in question must be constantly adapted. As long as the relevant traffic legislation has not been amended, the police must rely on the provisions governing the use of cameras by the police, namely Articles 25.1 et seq. of the Police Office Act. I don't have to tell you that the police capacity isn't infinite. The available intervention capacity determines the extent to which the police can actively respond to a hit and, if necessary, interpret it. However, it is not because there has been no immediate intervention that the information will be lost to the police as well. In fact, intervention can still take place in a delayed period of time. The ANPR data can also be used in second or third line by phenomenon coordinators or by researchers. In the last 12 months, the national section of the ANPR network, which was already operationalised at border crossings in 2017, produced 308,963 hits at some airports and on a number of regional roads. A distinction is then made in operationalisation between technical and legal operationalisation. The technical operationalisation of the first phase has completed the transfer of the project from the testing environment to the operational environment of the federal police data centre. Technically, we can therefore conclude that the project is ready for its first phase. However, if we are to be able to use the camera shield, legal operationalisation must be ready. During the development of the ANPR network, a new GDPR regulation came into force, imposing new procedures and requirements to be taken into account. The necessary impact and risk analysis was already provided with the opinion of the Supervisory Body on the police information or COC. A number of action points have been distilled, which are currently being worked on. One of the action lines is the lack of a number of directives required by law. In the meantime, a COC opinion has also been received for these directives. The Directives are currently being amended in accordance with the opinion. Additional adjustments may be necessary as a result of the advice obtained from the College of Attorneys General. However, this has not yet been received. For that point, too, I must refer to the Minister of Justice. The connection of ANPR cameras that can be used for route checks as part of a regional traffic policy is already planned in the first phase of the AMS roll-out. In a second and third phase, the connection of all other cameras, based on traffic offences other than ANPR technology, will follow, in accordance with Article 62 of the Road Traffic Act. As a national technical database, AMS is fully available to the integrated police, i.e. both the local and the federal components of the police. In the pre-operational phase 250 police test users are already active, of which just over half are part of the local component of the integrated police. This is logical since local authorities have already made a considerable effort in the field of the police use of ANPR cameras prior to the national ANPR project and they are continuing to do so in the national ANPR project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u33	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It was a very comprehensive answer. I'll certainly look into it in detail. When I refer to the fact that a lot of hits are classified without a result, you remind me of the possibility of continuing at a later stage. That is true, but it is important to counter the feeling of impunity, which lives among people, that we are moving forward in the project. That would be a good thing. You are also defending the technical complexity of making a number of links, the difficulty of the government environment and the fact that there is still a great deal to be done at legislative level. I understand all of that. Such large, comprehensive projects are often delayed. Let us together ensure that the delay here is kept to a minimum. The technology we have at our disposal today must be used to bring down, in the interests of road safety, the thresholds you are colliding with, for which I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I will not repeat my colleague's comments. Your explanation today already makes a lot of sense and will certainly help the police areas forward. They have more questions today than answers. In particular, I have remembered that the test phase is still ongoing and hopes to be operational by the end of the month or next month. That is very ambitious and I certainly look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u35	Madam Minister, I repeat my congratulations on your very important appointment. The safety, quality of life and working conditions of many people depend on what you will do and decide in the coming years. That is quite a responsibility, but I hope that we will be able to work constructively together, as is the custom in this committee. The previous Minister of the Interior, Pieter De Crem, together with Flemish minister Peeters, organised five provincial consultations with the mayors and governors to arrive at a common approach to the problems of transmigrants in the highway parkings. Among other things, the design would be a clearer definition of tasks and a total solution. The last consultation in Flemish Brabant took place on 21 September. That consultation was certainly not too quick. On the grounds, the cries of distress have been ringing for quite some time. Every night there are reports of transmigrants and the nuisance in the municipalities is still increasing. Our highway parkings remain the most popular place for smugglers to dump transmigrants, who try to climb into a truck to reach Britain. In recent weeks and months there has been an increasing number of transmigrants trying to make the crossing by breaking into passenger cars, caravans and so on. It very often leads to dangerous and violent situations. Private surveillance, a firmer fence and even closing certain parkings have not solved the problem, as expected, at all, but at most moved. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What conclusions did you or your predecessor draw from the discussions that former Minister De Crem had in the various provinces? Have you come to a clearer definition of tasks and, if so, how? Have you come to a total solution and, if so, which one? Finally, do you expect the problems with transmigrants on and around motorway parkings to decrease in the near future? If the problems with transmigrants on and around the motorway parks would not diminish in the near future, who do you think will be responsible for this and what consequences will you, if any, link to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, welcome to the Committee on the Interior. I am very pleased to meet you today for this first session of questions. Minister, today our police areas are often faced with difficult situations along the motorway areas. Local police are really exhausting themselves in their actions not against migrants but against the insecurity generated by the transit of transmigrants and trafficking in human beings on motorway parking lots. At times, they feel like they're emptying the ocean with a bucket. They clearly lack resources. This situation has been going on for a long time. On several occasions, I have called upon your predecessor, Mr. De Crem, to examine the extent to which a response could be provided to ensure the safety of users of these remote areas, transmigrants and local populations. It is a reality of the local entities, especially in Waremme where I am an alderman. It is true that today, in the north of the country, private guarding companies are being used and it is up to the local police areas to intervene, as well as the road police. However, there are no useful means of doing so. Madam Minister, the challenge is obviously to dismantle these important networks, and I have a few questions to ask you in this regard. Has the Federal Judicial Police developed a specific cell to dismantle these human trafficking networks? Have criminal networks been identified? Given the necessarily international nature of this criminal activity, with the aim of transiting to England, are collaborations with foreign services under way? Are there specific and ongoing contacts between federal police services and local police services that are seeking real support in the fight against these networks? At the level of prosecution, have any actions been initiated at the outset of the actions on the ground? With what results? Finally, as I told you, the workload is exhausting and local police really need support in these cases. What means do you intend to deploy to enable them to continue their missions and to ensure that they do not feel able to meet the expectations of citizens, the population, transmigrants and ensure the safety of all?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u37	Mr Van Langenhove, Mr Rigot, organising the consultations with the provinces was a good and fruitful initiative, as my predecessor said. On the basis of these consultations, four important conclusions can be drawn. A good coordination of everyone's efforts is essential in order to achieve an adequate tailor-made approach. The added value of the presence of private surveillance on the highway parkings has been identified several times. You already referred to that. The problem of motorway parking is not limited to the car park itself, also the environment and the routes that transit migrants and possibly smugglers take should be taken into account in a tailor-made approach. We must not allow this to be seen in a restrictive way. The administrative workload and the long lead times for handling a file require much, and possibly too much, police capacity. A far-reaching simplification of procedures would therefore appear to be appropriate. The objective of the consultations was not to obtain a job definition. It was just a moment of consultation in which expectations and policies could be better aligned in a debate. That will also be followed up further. I fully support the model of a coordinated integrated and tailored approach. In doing so, the tandem governor and director-coordinator of the devolved coordination and support departments at the level of the judicial arrondissements have an important and coordinating role to play in ensuring the optimal and coordinated use of all partners. Transit migration is a broad, not only Belgian, but also international, social phenomenon. It is an illusion to expect that there will be no transit migrants tomorrow. The aim of a tailor-made approach, based on these consultations in the provinces, is to keep the possible nuisance manageable, to fight crime and to contribute to a better sense of security for all, not only the citizens, but also, of course, the police services concerned. Mr Rigot, the Federal Judicial Police is structured around a general directorate, central directorates and deconcentrated directorates. At the central level, for nearly 25 years, there has been a specialized service in trafficking and trafficking in human beings. This unit is responsible for coordinating information at the national and international levels. It manages the development and monitoring of programmes related to these subjects. At the deconcentrated level, each judicial police is free to create within it a section specifically dedicated to these two phenomena. In general, the personnel and means dedicated to the fight against the exploitation of human beings are conditioned by the policy of local prosecutors depending on whether they consider these phenomena for their district as priorities to be treated or not. Policy choices that fall under the purview of the Public Prosecutor's Office are overseen by the College of Public Prosecutors. Within each judicial district, consultation platforms bring together local and federal police officers as well as certain federal public services such as the Office for Foreigners, the National Social Security Office (ONSS), etc. Each of these platforms is, in accordance with the guidelines of the College of Prosecutors General, organised and chaired by the reference magistrates of local prosecutors' offices. International criminal networks active in Belgium, France, the Netherlands and elsewhere in Europe are thus identified. Every year, the judicial police carry out investigations leading to arrests. For more details, I refer you to the image of the phenomena "Trafficking and trafficking 2019" published by the Federal Judicial Police. The Federal Judicial Police is engaged in the political cycle of the European Council to Combat Organised Crime, known as EMPACT. It actively participates in several operations, Operation Actions – OA, in the area of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. In a systematic manner, these AO's aim is to exchange police and criminal intelligence. Where possible, under the auspices of local and federal magistrates, joint investigation teams are set up for the dismantling of organised criminal groups active in several European states. We do not have statistical data on prosecutions and convictions handed down by courts and tribunals. In this regard, I would refer you to my colleague from the Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, although I am still a little hungry, especially for my last double question. I regret that no more political conclusions have been drawn from these unfortunately rare but very important and useful consultations. We already had the outline of the problem and have perhaps become even clearer now, but I think it was already clear for most actors and for most Members here. There has been talk for a long time, the problem has been known for a long time, so it is now time for action. Like other colleagues, I repeat myself. However, problems have been outlined and discussed for so many years, but nothing is being done about them. That is also the case in what we are discussing. You say that it is an illusion to think that in a few years' time there will be no more transmigration. Except former Minister De Crem, no one here believes in illusions. We have a bit more sense of reality. What we do expect, as Members of Parliament, but also the citizens and the people who are fighting against transmigration on the ground, is that you set some targets first. What can we expect from your policy in the coming years? Will there really be a solution and less nuisance from transmigration? How will you support that? I think we should know. Finally, I would also ask you to consult with your colleagues to address this problem at source, at source, at source. Transmigration and its nuisance is a symptom of a much broader and deeper problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. I must admit that for a year now I have been a member of the Committee on the Interior as a municipalist. Each time, I asked the Minister of the Interior to reach out to the communes and assume the supra-municipal responsibilities. For the past year, I have been feeling that I still haven't received an answer. For my part, I do not make transmigrants a culprit, but a victim of human trafficking, without a doubt. On the other hand, I raise to the local priority the need to guarantee the safety of all and to preserve, as I indicated to you, our local police. Today, however, I have not yet heard an answer suggesting that tomorrow you will give the means to local police and the road to intervene, if necessary, during the night when incidents occur in car parks. I also confess that I do not agree with you that you wish to give private services the competence to guarantee the safety of parking spaces. In my view, the security of citizens must be fulfilled by the State. It is a regal mission, of public utility. It is therefore not up to the private sector to compensate for the federal state's inability to assume its role. More than ever, at the gates of winter, I ask you to remain attentive to this policy, to the call of the land and of all the mayors who are experiencing these difficulties of transmigration. They extend their hand not to leave the transmigrants in the cold of the street and in inhumane conditions, but also to remind them that they want to guarantee the safety of everyone. That is why they will never allow the presence of trafficking in human beings on their territory or the existence of inappropriate behaviour. I am counting on you, Madam Minister, to convince me that you can do something for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u40	Mr President, Minister, for months there has been a fight against organised crime in Antwerp. Those gangs have been causing insecurity in the streets for months. Cars are being detonated. Grenades are being thrown to stores. They're shooting at houses with kalashnikovs. All the revue's already passed there. There is strong evidence that this is always about taking accounts in the drug environment. Since the weekend of September 5th, the Antwerp police have finally started Operation Night Watch to try to restore order. Finally, I'd say, after all these months of insecurity. Less than 24 hours after the launch, there was another shooting in Deurne. It is therefore important that the federal police are aware of the operation and can provide reinforcement if necessary. Antwerp is not an island, cooperation between the different police forces will be much needed. Is the federal police involved in the preparation of Operation Night Watch? Are there any federal police officers deployed during the operations? Is there any material from the federal police? There is often a lack of detectives in the Antwerp police force. Is there a problem there and if so, can the federal police help in this? In 2018, the Stroomplan was presented in the fight against the Antwerp drug smuggling. How does the Operation Nightwatch relate to the Power Plan? How is cooperation with the KALI team going?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u41	Madam Secretary, welcome to this committee. Mr Vandenput has explained the situation very thoroughly in his question, so I refer to my written record. I will come back to this in the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vandenput and Mr Soors, the federal judicial police must have sufficient investigators at their disposal. Compared with the established establishment plan, the federal judicial police currently have a deficit of about 14% and for certain arrondissements, including Antwerp, the deficit is even more than 20%. In addition, it is not just about the number, but it is also important to have the right people, because qualified staff are essential to tackle organised crime. In order to meet both challenges, both sufficient capacity and sufficiently qualified staff, the Director General of the Federal Judicial Police has recently prepared a strategic document on human resources management. That document is currently being discussed within the Federal Police Executive Committee. Temporary lateral reinforcement between the federal judicial police themselves must now be able to address acute needs. In the coming months, I myself will watch over a strict monitoring of staff shortages, together with the Minister of Justice with regard to the federal judicial police. The KALI project is part of the Streamplan and is based on a multidisciplinary approach to front companies and facilitators that may be linked to the drug environment. During the start-up phase of the KALI project, regular drug detective services of the Antwerp police zone and the federal judicial police Antwerp were chosen to stay at the same location. However, the implementation revealed many practical problems. For this reason, it was decided to return to the original form of the project by facilitating the flow of information through the so-called KALI intelligence consultation. The cooperation between the federal judicial police Antwerp and the police area Antwerp is going well, according to the information we have. During the implementation of the Stroomplan, a mandate was given to the judicial director of Antwerp to manage both private and public services. Several private and government partners should cooperate with each other. This presupposes that information can be exchanged, while respecting the individual rights and freedoms of our citizens. For the exchange of certain types of data between certain partners there are no legal grounds or the legal basis allows only an exchange of very limited information. This problem is well known, perhaps to all of you, and requires a thorough parliamentary debate. Organised crime is international today, using the most modern technologies and increasingly branching into mainstream society. For these reasons, the federal judicial police are preparing a new plan to tackle organised crime, aimed at intensifying international cooperation. Specifically on the issue of drugs in Antwerp, I refer to the closure of memoirs or understanding by the Executive Board of international police cooperation in cooperation with Benelux liaison officers with many Latin American source and transit countries of cocaine, for example Colombia and Brazil. In addition, the federal judicial police in Antwerp maintain numerous punctual and structural international contacts. In particular, the initiation of operation Nachtwacht is a source of concern to the local authorities about the safety of the inhabitants of Antwerp. In this context, the mayor and his chief of police have developed an administrative approach which has taken shape in an increased presence of local police in certain risk areas in Antwerp. The director-coordinator of the federal police of Antwerp was involved with a view to participating in these actions. Given the purely administrative nature of the operation, the federal judicial police of Antwerp was not involved in the practical preparation of this operation. Practical working arrangements were, of course, made between the judicial police and the police area of Antwerp in order to ensure maximum coordination of cooperation and exchange of information. The director-coordinator of the federal police Antwerp has committed itself to using the Antwerp intervention corps wherever possible to further develop cooperation with the shipping police. No federal police material is being deployed at the moment. It is, of course, possible that specialized support will be provided in the future, such as the use of a helicopter. The Streamplan is a project in which all the public and private actors involved commit themselves to address the problems of ports in an integrated way. The Nachtwacht operation fits in with the same problem and complements an increased presence in the street scene in order to minimise more visible excesses, such as drug-related violence offences, and to collect as much information as possible. In this way, the police zone of Antwerp contributes from its position as first-line police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. The complexity of the problem is, of course, that it is an international problem that begins in South America and other continents and then meets here in Antwerp. There's gonna be a lot of intelligence and research going on. Those deficits will help in the long term, but you - you are from the region - and I know people who live in Borgerhout and Deurne and who have felt unsafe for months. It is a mystery to me, but I do not have to ask you this question, why action was taken so late to remove the feeling of insecurity from those people. It is better now, with more police on the street, but the capacity on the street in Antwerp should not be an excuse. The army has been doing the work of policemen in Antwerp for four years, so there is enough capacity to put more police on the street in Deurne and Borgerhout, so that there is no more shooting with kalashnikovs. I am pleased to hear that the DirCo can provide support to Antwerp if this proves necessary. I think this is also necessary, because if the Antwerp police can't control it, the federal police will definitely have to step in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. The challenge with regard to this dossier is great. On the one hand, cooperation between local police forces and federal police forces, but also multidisciplinary between administrative services and the police, with customs. We're talking about enough men, enough qualified men. It is also a question of adequate technologies, for example in port, to limit the influx of these drugs. It is also a clear task definition and coordination, given the many partners present there. You yourself raised the legal obstacles to the sharing of information. Finally, at the highest level, we are talking about international cooperation. There's an incredible amount of work to be done. I hear from you a lot of good intentions, good intentions, things that stand in the dock. I hope they get there soon. I hope that we at the federal level can play an exemplary role in this cooperation. I trust you will. For example, the mayor of Antwerp should not suffer, as he himself did, in respect of other cities, that his city should become a no-go zone. In this way, we hope that lifeability and safety can continue to go hand in hand in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 55009210C has been converted into a written question. Mrs Gabriels is not here. Mrs Van Peel left her question No. 55009298C delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u46	Minister, is the deployment of the DAB (Federal Police Security Directorate) officers currently complete on the Tihange site? How many times did the police in the Huy area have to intervene at the Tihange Nuclear Generating Station in order to come back to the DAB? How many private security officers are coming to the DAB in TIhange? How are tasks divided between private security officers and DAB officers? Is there a cooperation agreement between the Huy police zone and the DAB of the Tihange nuclear power plant? Why is the deployment of the DAB not yet fully realized on the Doel site? What are the other nuclear sites monitored by the ADB? What is the exact number of surveillance officers in Tihange (DAB) and Doel (military)? What is the difference between monitoring by military personnel or BAD officers? How many minimal agents must be present on site at any time per reactor? Is there still a shortage of recruits at the DAB? What are the causes of the lack of attractiveness of the BAD in the north of the country? What is the number of transfers from Defence to BAD? What is the average number of years of service between the DAB officers deployed in Tihange and the military deployed in Doel? What is the annual monitoring budget for Belgian nuclear power plants? Has this budget decreased or increased due to/due to the deployment of the DAB to replace the army? Are you planning to maintain or even increase the number of security officers deployed in Tihange after the production of nuclear reactors has ceased and throughout the dismantling process? What is the impact of Covid-19 on DAB missions in Tihange and Doel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u47	Mr Cogolati, the deployment of DAB agents to the Tihange site is complete. Since the establishment of the DAB Tihange on 4 October 2018, the police zone has intervened four times at the Tihange site. A total of 90 G4S members are assigned to the Tihange nuclear power plant to allow a 24-hour, 7-day-a-7 presence, varying from 15 to 30 officers depending on the time of day. In accordance with Directive OOP36bis, G4S ensures the prevention, control and detection features on behalf of ENGIE. DAB, in accordance with the same directive, is responsible for prevention and response. The tasks inherent in these missions are clearly defined and distributed between the two departments. In addition, common radio means allow for ongoing operational coordination. Daily exercises are conducted to train both services to work together. A provisional cooperation agreement was signed between the police zone and the DAB prior to the resumption of the mission. The deployment of the DAB to Doel is not yet fully realized because the security officers have not yet been recruited. DAB is currently securing the nuclear sites in Fleurus and Tihange. It will secure the nuclear sites of Doel and Mol-Dessel-Geel. Tihange has 54 security officers. DAB personnel are permanently posted to the site in contrast to military personnel performing temporary missions, which involved some rotation of staff. The result is a very high level of knowledge of the facilities in the chief of the police officers. Members of the operational framework of the DAB have the powers provided for in the Police Function Act in the areas of searches of persons, vehicles, buildings, arrests and seizures. Among the competences, mention should be made in particular of the rules on the use of firearms and the use of coercion provided for in articles 37 and 38 of the Act. Military detachments were present for several days, which meant integrating off-life moments such as meals, rest, etc. into their mission. Police personnel work on breaks and are therefore active throughout the entire service. This difference significantly increases the field presence. The DAB ensures the permanent presence of eight staff members 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The DAB has yet to hire 411 security officers. Thirty-six military personnel have graduated from training and are currently working at the DAB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u48	Security officers deployed to Tihange have between one and two years of service. The VOCID-19 has no impact on the performance of the ADB's missions. Only the management of staff and resources has been affected. Mr. Thiébaut, the Directorate of Security currently has 1,119 staff: two police divisional commissioners, 25 police commissioners, 93 senior inspectors, 4 security coordinators, 370 security assistants, 577 security officers and 48 administrative and logistical staff. The DAB still has to hire 481 staff: 1 Divisional Police Commissioner, 15 Police Commissioners, 43 Senior Inspectors, 410 Security Officers and 12 Administrative and Logistics Officers. Federal police management has undertaken a number of targeted campaigns to encourage recruitment to the DAB. It also travels through schools and specialized agencies to present tasks and career opportunities to the DAB. The emphasis is on very broad employment opportunities for potential candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer. I can only welcome the fact that the Huy police area is less solicited and can concentrate on its primary missions. It is, in my view, a good thing that the DAB officers are now deployed to the Tihange site and that an agreement could have been signed with the Huy police zone, because it simply means more security on the ground, around the particularly sensitive site of the Tihange plant, a Class 1 facility. On the other hand, I can only be surprised at the difference between Tihange and Doel. Indeed, if I understood you correctly, as far as Doel is concerned, many recruitments still have to be made within the DAB. The military remains there, which has not been the case for two years now at the Tihange site.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u50	Minister, in my turn, I would like to congratulate you on your new and important duties. Many police officers have recently pointed to difficulties in harmonizing their equipment, which do not allow for systematic recognition of functions by citizens. For more than twenty years, many pieces have come in addition to the equipment. This has thus diversified, without taking over an absolutely uniform colour code. Thus, certain distinctive signs, such as the grades on the shoulders, have been placed on the equipment at the height of the chest, making them less visible. It has been reported to us that, for example, the police service shirt makes it difficult to identify it when it is perceived from the back - due, in particular, to the absence of the rank on the shoulders and the indication "police", yet present on other pieces of equipment such as the bulletproof vest. Moreover, it has happened to us that, for several years, some entities of the integrated police have been acquiring equipment not included in the regulations, without going through the Uniform Commission. This phenomenon inevitably contributes to the police's feeling of disparity with regard to their equipment. Finally, according to point 3.1. of Annex C, Circular GPI 65 on the basic equipment and general functional equipment of members of the operational framework of the integrated police, structured on two levels, "the wearing of the head covering" - which constitutes a primary identification piece - "is mandatory when carrying out missions outside". It must be noted, however, that this obligation is not respected by all the members of the police services concerned. Minister, can we hear your views on the various points raised? Has there been any consultation with trade union organizations on this issue? Are you considering initiatives to improve the harmonisation, visibility and identification of police equipment? In advance, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u51	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the uniform set up by the reform of the polices of 2001 has naturally evolved and has expanded in line with the changing needs of the field and the expectations relayed by its staff. It was a question that had already been addressed to me during the visits and meetings in recent days when I took up my duties as minister. The federal police have always worked to integrate the two levels of police into the development of new pieces and standards, regulating uniformity across the country. It was during the same reform that it was decided to move the grades from the shoulders to the chest to allow the recognition and identification of the members of the police services. However, the logo with the written mention was affixed to the chest and sleeves of the parts worn on the top and below, in the back of the jackets and other parkas. The position of the logo on the back of the visible bulletproof vests that are intended to be worn over the body parts is the result of the recent obligation to wear the bulletproof vests constantly. After almost twenty years of presence, the pieces of the uniform are also identifiable in themselves by the combination of the three shades of blue (vaporized, badge and very dark marine) now unique to our police. Some exhibits have been developed without the prior advice of the Uniform Commission and outside the minimum standards aimed at standardizing the conduct of different levels of police. These introductions are obviously regrettable. If the composition of the uniform is governed by different legal acts, the conditions of its wearing, including the head covering, are left to the decision of the Chief of Staff for the local police and the Commissioner General, the Director General or the Inspector General for the federal police. It is, however, also the personal responsibility of the member of the police service to comply with this decision and to bear the documents provided and required. The Uniform Commission resumed its work in June 2020 and its composition was reviewed to ensure that the two levels of police and representative trade union organisations were representative in accordance with the Royal Decree establishing it. The Uniform Commission is considering the uniform as a whole and has begun a deep reflection on its parts, their versatility, their recognition and their evolution as close as possible to the tasks of the police, with a view to consistency and a harmonious visibility that allows citizens to clearly identify every police officer in uniform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u52	Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response. I am satisfied with the way in which you plan your work within your department, especially with on-site visits and the contacts that make it possible to take the pulse of the field, as the mayors often do. In your reply, you refer to this reflection initiated by the Uniform Commission, which has resumed its work since June. I share this reflection so that the various aspects of versatility, recognition, coherence and harmony of all uniforms can be on the agenda. I would also like to thank you for your clarification of the questions I have asked you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, officers from the Montois post office of the Railway Police express their concern to me at the ongoing reform of the Railway Police, and in particular at the merger of the posts of Mons and Charleroi, already begun under the name "South Region". This would lead to the disappearance of the Montois post to retain only the mother post located in Charleroi. This disappearance would inevitably create negative repercussions for our region of Mons-Borinage, particularly for the Mons-Quévy police zone. The latter runs the risk of being faced with an explosion of tasks and an increase in operating costs. In addition to the station operations which would then be devolved, resulting in an additional cost and a waste of staff, the response times may also explode as a result of the time required to move from Charleroi to Mons. This is a scenario that I cannot resolve to accept, both for the strength of the Mons-Quévy police zone, but also for the many travellers and commuters who risk being penalized. Madam Minister, could you please make sure that the Mons station and its Railway Police position are given high priority in the ongoing reform? What are the criteria taken into account in the development of the reform and maintenance of railway police posts? In this context, can you assure me that the Montois post will indeed be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 June my predecessor indicated in his answer to your question No 55000568C of 12 May that the ministerial circular was still being drafted, so no definitive solution had yet been reached. This remains valid today. The closure of certain infrastructures is one of the possible scenarios but is nowhere in the process of being implemented. In addition, no matter what, the Railway Police will continue to carry out its basic police missions on its ground of action. In the case of Mons, the post depends administratively on that of Charleroi, but the permanent teams patrol on the priority field of action of the Railway Police throughout the territory of the province of Hainaut and follow up on urgent interventions. The decision to set up a police station inside a station depends on a number of factors, including the provision of police-friendly premises by SNCB, operational needs and needs, police capacity, budgetary availability and the agreements of our supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you. So nothing is yet concluded at your level. That would have surprised me, because you have just taken up your duties. I'm half reassured, but I'm still worried. I will not fail to follow this file. I will come back to you if I hear worrying developments at this level. I will certainly turn to the new Minister of Mobility to ensure also the availability of premises in the station of Mons, both the current station and the new station.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u56	Madam Minister, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Police have indicated that a major seizure of firearms was carried out on the morning of Tuesday, 8 September, in the Brussels metropolitan area. According to press reports, 16 simultaneous searches took place in Brussels and in the municipalities of Watermael-Boitsfort, Waterloo, Braine-l'Alleud, Braine-le-Château, Laeken, Auderghem, Lasne, Ath, Verviers and Tubize. The investigators reportedly discovered 374 firearms and nearly 400 kilos of ammunition. Ten people were reportedly arrested, including a police commissioner. Do you confirm this information? Can you give us more details about the investigation and the charges against those arrested without violating the secrecy of the investigation? Do you confirm that a police commissioner is the subject of the investigation? If so, has any disciplinary action been taken against him?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u57	Mr. Thiébaut, the police have no right to disclose information about the ongoing investigation. It will have to determine the exact nature and origin of the weapons seized and whether service weapons have been hijacked despite the internal procedures in place. Weapons and other equipment received by an operational police officer shall be recorded in a logistics database. The main purpose of this registration is to delegate the management of material resources to the management of human resources and to adapt the material received to the evolution of the staff member's career. For weapons, this must be accompanied by a registration in the central arms register, in order to allow effective tracing of weapons during the various stages of a weapon within the police service or also outside the police, in the context of a possible resale. Article 19 of the Weapons Act 2006 states that "the State, police zones and municipalities may sell the individual arms of the authorities authorized to carry weapons in service exclusively to registered armorers." At this stage of the investigation, it is not possible to provide more information on the exact nature of the weapons seized and their provenance. In all cases, the judicial seizure of a weapon is the subject of a report. In general, seized items are not deposited in the registry, whether they are absolutely necessary for the manifestation of the truth or for subsequent confiscation. Depending on the investigation and the nature of the weapon seized, a decision on its destruction may be made by the King's prosecutor. The test bench is the body designated to carry out this destruction. As such, it must ensure the traceability of its actions and has specific access to the Central Arms Register in order to encode what has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u58	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I thank you for the clarifications you have provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u59	Minister, a recent survey conducted at the request of the unions and organized by the Department of Well-Being and Prevention at Work, dealing with psychosocial aspects within the observation services of the special units of the Federal Police (CGSU), has raised a number of criticisms addressed to the leaders of the services. The police spokesman acknowledged that "the investigation (had) demonstrated a need for adjustment in terms of leadership, vision, communication, planning, perception of insufficient and/or inadequate resources" and stated that "an action plan (was) being developed." Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you tell us if the situation in the observation services of the special units of the federal police has changed? Did the investigation reveal any other difficulties? If so, have they been/will they be mentioned in the action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u60	Mr Senesael, since the receipt of the June 2020 report on the psychosocial investigation of the observation service, the management of the special units of the federal police has undertaken several steps with the aim of developing an action plan. In addition to the communications from the basic consultation committee in Brussels, the head of the management of the special units spoke on 31 August at a meeting of the staff of the observation service, during which the report was officially presented and transmitted in both languages to the staff members. The presentation consisted of an in-depth analysis, suggestions for improvement, an explanation of the approach and a call for applications to form a task force to develop and implement an action plan. On 16 October, the Internal Directorate of Prevention and Protection at Work of the Federal Police will present the findings of the report to the members of the observation service. On this occasion, they will be free to ask all their questions. The survey demonstrated a need for adjustment in terms of leadership, vision, communication, planning, perception of insufficient and/or inadequate resources. This shows a lack of group cohesion and demotivation within the observation service. The action plan under development aims to respond to the findings of the psychosocial survey. This task will be undertaken in close collaboration with a task force to be formed in the coming days. The Directorate of Special Units has emphasized that the success of this challenge depends on the collaboration, mutual reinforcement, trust and respect of all who constitute the strength of the DSU. The Directorate-General of the Judicial Police also monitors the progress of the case. Trade union organisations will be kept informed of the follow-up to the action plan via the basic consultation committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u61	Minister, thank you for your response. I am pleased that this report was officially presented on 31 August 2020, with possible improvements to be implemented. You also inform us of the follow-up to this report on 16 October 2020, in two days' time. I have three important elements. First, a task force will be formed. Secondly, it will implement a range of challenges that must lead to a certain success. I will allow myself to return to you in a few months to know the progress of the work of this task force. Finally, you are ensuring that trade union organisations can be part of this process of challenges to be met, resolved and observed. Minister, I will be particularly vigilant about the development of this issue. Thank you for the way in which you seem to be interested in this challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u62	Madam Minister, I would also like to congratulate you and wish you every success with the nevertheless heavy powers on your shoulders. I am not just talking about Home Affairs, but also about institutional reforms. You will know that this is very complex in this country and that even ordinary daily events often lead to very complicated situations. One example I would like to present to you today is the case, in practice, in which Dutch speakers who live in Flanders and who receive a ticket in Brussels from the federal police with a seat in Wallonia, receive their minutes and correspondence in French. It would be too easy if that were the same regulation. If they receive a letter informing them of the offence in French, that is a violation of the language law in administrative matters. Then Article 41, §1 and Article 58 of the Language Act apply in administrative matters. Then we could have it established and declared null and void. However, that is not the case with the minutes themselves. These are covered by Article 11 of the Language Law in court cases of 15 June 1935. The second paragraph states: 'In the municipalities of Brussels, the minutes shall be drawn up in French or in Dutch, depending on the subject matter, one or the other of these languages shall be used for his statements and, in the event of a lack of explanation, according to the needs of the case'. In practice, these necessities lead to unacceptable language situations. It reminds me of 19th-century situations when it was believed that officials could impose their own language and impose it on the people. I hope you agree with me that this does not belong in the 21st century. One can ask for a copy of that report in Dutch, but one is not obliged to go into it. Madam Minister, will you give instructions to the police, for example by sending a letter, that the minutes should always be drawn up in the language of the language of the person concerned's place of residence? Or will you take other measures to put an end to this practice? I have seen that a similar question I wanted to ask the Minister of Justice, in particular whether he considered it necessary to amend the language law in court cases, has been linked to the question I wanted to ask you about the police services. I assume this is another field of expertise, but if you can answer that, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Pas, it is important, as you point out, that a police officer's report is drawn up in the correct language, as laid down in the language law on court cases, which you have just quoted. Where the minutes are drawn up in a language other than the language laid down by law, that report shall be null and void. Article 40 of the relevant law lays that down. The nullity must be decided of its own motion by the court. So there's no getting away from that. In the Brussels-Capital Region, a report must in principle be drawn up in Dutch or in French, depending on the language used by the person concerned in his statement. If no statement has been made, the report will indeed be drawn up according to the need of the case, as you indicated. However, if the Brussels-Capital Region is left and the minutes are drawn up on Dutch-speaking territory, this will have to be done in Dutch. If the minutes are drawn up in French-speaking territory, they must be in French. In such cases, the language of the language area in which the report is drawn up and not the language of the place where the offence was committed or the language of the place where the investigation is carried out will prevail. Applied to the example given by you, Namur's road police will have to draw up the minutes in French when they draw up their minutes in their offices on French-speaking territory. Failing that, there will be nullity. Consequently, I cannot issue any different directives on this subject, as this would lead to the automatic destruction of the minutes. However, there is nothing to prevent citizens from asking the public prosecutor for a translation of the minutes in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22 of the Language Law on Court Cases. That measure was laid down for all persons who understand only Dutch, French or German. The cost of translation is at the expense of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u64	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. With your answer in hand, I will question the Minister of Justice and ask him whether nothing should be changed to the law from which you should not deviate. After all, logic escapes me. There is also a case-law before Cassatie which validates such a procedure and ensures that people who receive a report in French do not have any legal means of obtaining tickets in their own language. That seems to me to be a serious gap, which still exists to this day. I will certainly question the Minister of Justice in the hope that the present government will improve on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u65	Mr. Chair, Minister, this summer, a focus group carried images of hate violence perpetrated against homosexuals online. The same group invited its 600 or so members to repeat, film and share such acts. The images that have come to us, Madam Minister, bear witness to extreme brutality. The physical and psychological damage suffered by the victims is significant. According to a survey conducted by the Flemish government in 2014, nine out of ten homosexuals acknowledged that they had been victims of verbal or psychological violence, three out of ten reported physical violence and two out of ten reported material violence. A year ago, Unia pointed to a trend towards an increase in the incidence of discrimination and violence against homosexuals. One of the phenomena mentioned explaining this increase is the visibility and the speed of transition of homophobic statements allowed by social networks. If the discussion group I have just mentioned has been closed and a police investigation has been opened, homophobia remains a well-established trend in our country and there is no indication that it can disappear in the months and years to come. Minister, can we have your point of view on this issue? Can we be informed of the numbers of acts of hate violence committed against homosexuals in recent years? Have any other online discussion groups that convey homophobic ideas and call for physical or mental violence been reported in recent months? Are initiatives to prevent acts of violence against homosexual individuals envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u66	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the Internet Investigation Section of the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime was designated by the Justice and Home Affairs FPS in November 2016 as the national point of contact for combating hate speech online. As part of its monitoring, the section regularly uses research in this field on the Internet and, in particular, on social networks. Common crimes, such as intentional assault, committed with a homophobic motive are also referred to as "hate crimes". This means that, for certain ordinary offences, if the act is committed because of aversion to ethnicity, religion, sex, gender, etc. of a person, it will be considered an aggravating circumstance. However, the codes in the police nomenclature are not sufficiently detailed to identify these hate crimes. Other available fields do not provide more solutions. As a result, it is not possible to extract these hate crimes on the basis of information in the general national databases or to provide a more precise answer to questions about homophobic violence. The Internet Investigation section of DG SOC does not necessarily keep an encrypted register exclusively related to homosexuality. With regard to hate speech, however, the section reported many facts to the platforms by requesting withdrawals. In general, these are published content in isolation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will allow myself to analyse in order to react more effectively at a later stage. In any case, substantial improvements in the management of the data bank seem to me to be necessary. I'll think about how we can get to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u68	Madam Minister, not only have stricter corona measures been announced, but the police must also be much more careful to ensure that they are properly respected. Faster people swing on the ticket and more controls become the common thread, then it sounds. In the government's communication there is talk of additional efforts in the area of sensitisation and enforcement, so that the measures are properly applied. Firstly, what does stricter enforcement mean? What are we supposed to mean by this? Secondly, does stricter enforcement also mean much more private controls? Thirdly, what concrete action will the police take to ensure stricter compliance with the corona measures? What sanctions are attached to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u69	Mr Moyaerts, the main role of the police service is to ensure public safety and public health. In the current corona context, it means that police forces will carefully monitor the following critical points with them during the period from 9 October to 9 November. These are three specific elements, in addition to all the other elements of the regulation, which must be maintained. Firstly, that is the prohibition of cooperation on public roads. To date, only four people in a group are allowed to go on the public road. Secondly, there is compliance with the closing hours for pubs and restaurants. Finally, this is the wearing of a mask in public places, in particular public transport. Local authorities can take additional, more stringent measures according to the specific situation and needs. This has already been demonstrated by the night curfew for a limited period of time in the provinces of Walloon Brabant and Luxembourg, where the enforcement of these additional measures must be strictly pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u70	Thank you, Madam Secretary. New rules at cafés are one thing, but making sure that the café bosses who respect them and the customers respect them is another issue. I myself am mayor in a small town and realize what that means for the local police and for the mayors themselves. The chance is very real that from Friday we should treat restaurants in the same way as cafes, and I think that is a very good thing. Today, it is also for us to decide what a café and what a restaurant is. It's hard for the police, too. I still have a big question: what will café-goers do after closing time? Here and there, illegal parties appear to take place everywhere in small locations. In addition to sensitizing, it will be important to get a grip on what is happening in the private sphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u71	Madam Secretary, co-operation with rescue dogs clubs by police forces is currently very strictly defined. They are usually only used in private security services where people do not get in touch with the public. In the search for missing persons, only the approved rescue dogs teams can be used, of which twenty-five are in Belgium. They meet strict requirements and have formal and recognised theoretical and practical training. Is it possible to make a change in this framework, whereby the better private teams of the dog clubs can take a certification test with an official body so that they can be recognised, alongside fire and civil protection teams, and be used in, for example, urgent searches? Will you take an initiative for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u72	Mr Moyaers, the federal police are aware of the existence of associations that train rescue dogs. Meetings between the various actors in rescue operations and the non-profit organisations in question have already taken place in the past. However, there are several factors that make working with private associations impossible. On the one hand, there are legal obstacles because disappearances are legal matters for which the police have their own specialised resources. Moreover, the use of private resources is not provided for in a ministerial directive on the detection of missing persons. On the other hand, there are practical obstacles. There are certain actions that private organisations are not allowed to carry out, such as entering private sites. A police detective dog guide has the authority and training to apply for other specialised means, such as a helicopter, after consultation with the Missing Persons cell. There is no guarantee of quality as regards the dog teams of private organisations due to a lack of certification. It already exists for private surveillance companies working with explosives dogs in aviation safety. In short, the federal police is not a asking party for the use of private resources in search operations but for further cooperation with the fire department and civil protection. Mr Moyaerts, civil protection does indeed have 25 rescue dogs teams. In addition, there are 16 patrols from the federal police, making a total of 41 teams available. Given the high quality of the training these recognised teams received, it is neither feasible nor appropriate for the time being to extend the certification to private associations training rescue dogs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u73	Mrs. Soors, I see you've joined us again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u74	Mr President, I apologize. In the meantime, I have asked another question in the Justice Committee. I understand that item 21 has already been dealt with. If there is still a moment before I can put my questions under the previous items on the agenda, I would be happy to do so, but of course I will take the order of business, which you will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u75	Mrs Soors, we are now ready for your question under item 22 on the collection of data from smart speakers by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u76	The Belgian legal framework does not allow the police to request data from the so-called smart speakers from companies such as Amazon and Google. However, with the application of a number of articles in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the judicial authorities have the power, under certain circumstances, to listen to, take note of or record private communications or telecommunications. I myself am not in favour of a legislative amendment in this area. The current legal framework should suffice. There is no international legal framework for the direct search of Google and Amazon by the Belgian judicial authorities. European initiatives are being taken. However, they fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice. I refer you to him for further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u77	I'll follow you in your answer. I am also somewhat reassured by your statement that you are not in favour of this. I myself have great reservations about, among other things, privacy to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u78	Mrs Soors, I would ask the Minister to give you the written answer to your three questions. 55009456C, 55009460C and 55009461C. Your question No. 55009468C on rescue dogs was combined with a question from Mr Moyaers, who has already asked the question, and an answer has already been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u79	Madam Minister, I have recently been questioned by two reports and two reports, one on French television France 2 and the other on Belgian television RTBF on the export and transport of waste. The first is a survey carried out by France 2 which revealed that, during the spring of 2020, nearly 800 tons of rubble and household waste had been illegally dumped in the French departments of Meurthe-et-Moselle, Moselle and in about ten villages. According to the investigation, the waste would come from Belgium, specifically from a waste plant in the Antwerp region, and would have been transported by that company. Several complaints have been lodged in both France and Belgium. An investigation was opened by the Lille Public Prosecutor's Office. Another survey would also be under way in Belgium. In this case, Madam Minister, I have two questions. Has such an illegal dumping of waste been observed in Belgium, particularly in border areas? Have any other incidents of illegal dumping of waste from Belgium been reported from neighbouring countries? Another problem, Madam Minister, on August 27, Interpol published a report revealing the existence of criminal networks active in the export of plastic waste officially destined for recycling to Asia, contributing to the phenomenon of plastic pollution through the release of such waste into nature or through its combustion. According to figures from the SPF Economy, about 715,000 tonnes of plastic waste were produced in Belgium in 2016, the last year for which I was able to find statistics. A Greenpeace report dated 23 April 2019 revealed that Belgium was the fifth most plastic exporting country in the world between January and November 2018, accounting for 448,352 tonnes exported, representing 6.9% of world exports during this period. Today, Belgium's annual exports of plastic waste are estimated at 420,000 tonnes per year. RTBF recently pointed out that a number of these wastes for recycling were being sent to Asian countries, notably to Malaysia, where they were buried in landfills or incinerated in the open air. In January 2020, Malaysian Environment Minister Yeo Bee Yin reported having returned 150 containers, containing 3,737 tons of waste, 8 of which were to Belgium. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have read the Interpol report. Can we have your opinion on this? Can we know whether some of these criminal networks have been identified and whether their connection with Belgium has been recognised? Are initiatives aimed at solving this problem envisaged, inter alia, by the police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u80	Mr Senesael, to answer your question on the illegal export of waste from Belgium, I can inform you that we have not yet discovered such a phenomenon of illegal dumping of waste in border areas and that the neighbouring countries have not yet reported to us any other such incidents. I come to your second question. The Central Service of the Federal Judicial Police which was recently established FUPEC (?) monitoring the phenomenon of fraud against waste in an international context. The former environment unit now integrated into FUPEC (?) has been in close contact with Interpol for many years and regularly participates in the activities set up by Interpol. We have taken note of the latter's report. Prior to this publication, the department had already begun an analysis of the phenomenon of plastic waste. To date, we have not yet discovered any criminal networks linked to Belgium at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u81	Mr Colebunders is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u82	Mr President, Minister, Apache's investigation shows that more than 6,700 police officers are members of the Facebook group 'Thin Blue Line'. This group writes in derogatory, racist terms about young people with a migration background. Sometimes even violence seems to be called for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u83	It is not without me that we learned the existence of private or secret discussion groups on social networks, composed of police officers, up to 6,500 members, on which were exchanging racist or xenophobe comments, tricks and tricks to circumvent the rules to depend on the physical integrity of the person being the subject of a police intervention and I pass on
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u84	Regarding the Facebook Thin blue line group, and as my predecessor pointed out in previous questions, I attach particular importance to the democratic values in our society. I also refer to the Commissioner-General's intervention in this area on the occasion of the Joint Committee on the Interior and Justice on Tuesday, 1 September 2020. Since police services are defenders of fundamental freedoms, values and rights, racism or discriminatory attitudes or statements do not belong to them, both in the professional and private spheres. The Facebook Thin blue line group is a closed group, exclusively reserved for active and retired members of the Integrated Police (IPG), both its operational and civilian staff. This group has existed for several years already, and was born from the noble intention to share in-house national and international experiences of good practices, as well as new ones. The rules for publishing a post on this Facebook group are guided by rules that are consistent with fundamental values and the code of ethics. As a result of recent findings, a number of initiatives that I can only endorse have been taken immediately. The Commissioner General officially informed managers of this by sending them a clear message and reminding them of the fundamental values and their role as managers. Managers immediately closed and archived this Facebook group, which is no longer active but remains accessible as part of the internal or judicial investigation. The Inspectorate-General had in fact drawn up an initial report on the matter for the attention of the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels, who was brought to the attention of the Commissioner-General. On this basis, the Commissioner-General gave the necessary instructions for launching an internal investigation. A reminder of the rules on the use of social media will also be brought to the attention of all federal police staff. In addition, the theme of racism is taken into account in the already launched campaign Respect in the federal police. The question specifically referred to directives on social media handling. I would like to refer to the 2011 vision text on social media, a strategy for the services of the integrated police, which was spread within the federal police. It was then approved by the then Minister of the Interior. Among other things, the text stipulated that each police force should take concrete initiatives at its own level to integrate social media into its work processes. For example, in 2013, a framework paper on the use of social media was distributed by the members and services of the federal police. The note is a reference framework that provides advice and recommendations in the legal, deontological, security and communication fields and contains a charter for the informed use of social media. The framework note is intended to help social media users make the right choices and is still applicable. The recommendations on the personal use of social media have recently been updated in the form of a separate supplementary sheet. All information on the use and management of social media is available to all members of the integrated police at all times on the internal site that is also mobile consultable. Finally, in addition to the directives, training on the handling of social media is offered to employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u85	Madam Minister, we agree that the existence of this group is certainly not the problem, but the language and statements of individuals in that group. In this sense, of course, I think it is an important and powerful signal that the group is now closed. At the same time, I can only think that the majority of people who were in that group with good intentions have to pay for it by the few who have ruined it. I hope that further internal investigations, in addition to the general signal of the closure of that group, will also be very clear with regard to those individual members, in the sense that there is no place for their behaviour and attitude in the police and that the measures taken will be sufficiently strict. In my question I also mentioned two other aspects, on which I have heard little in your reply. A first aspect concerns compliance with the deontological code. In my opinion, it is good that there are recommendations about, for example, the use of social media, but very often, in the case of various infringements and incidents, there has been a lack of supervision within the police of compliance with the deontological code. The extension and refinement of this code is therefore important, ensuring that the code is respected is another part of the work. That brings me to the second point I would like to make in my last point. Your predecessor, Mr De Crem, said in the past that the police integrity service would be strengthened. Apparently, there were two vacancies open in that service. I hope that in the meantime this reinforcement has happened or will happen soon, just because of the importance of that service for monitoring police behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u86	Mr.President, Madam Minister, thank you for making it clear – I didn't doubt it for a second. As you said, this kind of behavior is not acceptable. This is reflected, as my colleague said, in the closing of the Facebook group, which is a good thing. But we have to get to the end. In the future... there are too many replications of individual behaviour that are not the image of our police, which are not our police, Madam Minister. I really count on you to really push for investigations to the end and at some point, when these unacceptable behaviors are identified, for measures to match these behaviors to be taken; and for the message to be clear about all our police and our future police. That's not what we want tomorrow. What we want is an honest, remarkable police force that guarantees all of us behaviors above the mix. What it is, 99.9% of cases. But those few people who have unacceptable behaviors, I count on you to put an end to this kind of behavior forever. This will also involve a policy of recruitment, training and a policy committed to our police officers, and support for sometimes changing inappropriate behaviour. As you said yourself, I am convinced that you, like all of us here in Parliament, have the will to move forward with this police force of which we are proud and which we still want to be remarkable in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u87	Madam Secretary, the death of Joseph Chovanec is not the only recent death in a police cell. In October 2019, a man was killed in a cell in Lebbeke. There would have been the excited delirium syndrome. At the end of August this year, a Polish man died at Bree's police station. He wouldn't have died of violence or a hard-handed approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u88	Mr President, Madam Secretary, on 25 August 2020, a 39-year-old Pole died in a police cell in Bree. Apparently the man made a confused impression and upon arrival at the Commissariat his condition deteriorated. He died tying up on a gurney.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Soors, Mrs Ingels, the procedures that enter into force after the death of a person in a police cell or during a police intervention are laid down in the GPI 62 circular under the chapter 'Report of incidents' and in the COL17 of 2012. That COL is a joint letter from the Minister of Justice, my office and the College of Attorneys General concerning respectful handling of the deceased, the announcement of his death, the dignified farewell and the cleaning of the place of the facts in the event of intervention by the judicial authorities. The latter document lists the first tasks for the police in the event of a death. The GPI 62 provides that any event involving violence or whether or not police armed forces or intervention techniques are to be reported to the competent administrative and judicial authorities and local prevention services, on the one hand, and the management of administrative police operations, on the other. Moreover, as soon as possible DGR, the general management of resources and information, should be fully informed so that the lessons to be drawn would be embedded in the training in violence control, as well as the general inspection of the federal and local police. Finally, there are also internal directives on this subject which determine the procedure to be followed in the event of a death following a police intervention. However, they are not necessarily uniform for the integrated police. More specifically, in accordance with the COL17, a mandatory notification should be made to the public prosecutor, who may then give the necessary instructions and be responsible for notifying a surviving member of the deceased. In doing so, the magistrate will decide whether or not to entrust the subsequent succession of the death to a police department or to the Survey Service of the P Committee. In any case, it must be a service other than the service where the victim died. The hierarchy itself should then be kept informed, for which special instructions can also be given by the hierarchy in terms of working methods. On its own initiative or on request, the Ministers for the Interior and Justice will then be informed, who may also request information from the police authorities, such as the P Committee. This will enable immediate operational or administrative action to be taken and the incidents to be analysed. Finally, there are also obligations concerning the communication to the competent foreign authorities through the management of operations of the administrative police if the person concerned is of a nationality other than that of Belgium. There's no standard procedure for the surveillance camera footage. They shall be seized, where appropriate, by decision of the competent authority. For your question on figures, I would ask you to ask me this question in writing, so that I can answer it in detail. Mrs Ingels, in reply to your question, I note that the facts to which you refer are the subject of an investigation. Until further notice, the law provides for the secrecy of the investigation. Consequently, I cannot provide any information on the case today. The complete file is currently at the office of the Prosecutor of the King in Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u90	Madam Minister, I am somewhat reassured that there are indeed already defined procedures for a death in a police cell. I hope that it also means that what has gone wrong in the Jozef Chovanec case can be further clarified and hopefully that will remain the exception to the rule. However, it is still a working point to install a certain procedure and automation for the camera images as well. That seems very logical to me. After all, why are these cameras hanging there other than to use the footage when there have been serious incidents in a police cell?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u91	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I will keep my reply to the question under item No. 28.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u92	Minister, in 2012, according to AFCN, the capacity of the water table – providing a source of emergency water (in addition to that from the Meuse) – could no longer be guaranteed in accordance with the requirements. What is the situation today, according to the latest audits? Is the problem still present, particularly as a result of drought? What is the level of this groundwater? Is the level of the water table sufficient to ensure the flow of pumps for a long period of time (30 days)?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u93	Mr Cogolati, a decrease in the level of the Tihange water table was indeed observed in 2012 on the basis of the history of the measurements of the water level. The main cause of this reduction was overexploitation of the table, i.e. a daily overconsumption of table water. This water table was in fact operated by Electrabel as a source of water for various normal plant applications, such as demineralized water or complementary water to the fire system. Since then, Electrabel has taken several steps to remedy this situation. These measures are of three types, namely detailed investigations to confirm the diagnosis, followed by actions to reduce the consumption of table water and, finally, the optimisation of pumping capacity. In terms of diagnostics, various studies have made it possible to establish a complete mapping of the water table and to determine the appropriate levels to position the pumps to optimize their performance. Knowledge of the dynamics of the table has therefore been improved. To limit consumption, Electrabel has replaced the entire demineralized water production facility, which is now produced from Meuse water and no longer from table water. The commissioning of the Meuse water filtration unit in April 2013 has therefore put an end to the structural exploitation of table water to produce demineralized water. As a result, table water is no longer pumped to the Tihange nuclear power plant, and normal operation is fully a safety reserve. The level of the table is thus completely raised to the level of the original measurements, i.e. prior to the occupation of the site by the Tihange nuclear power plant. This level corresponds to 67.5 meters in Tihange 1 and 68.5 meters in Tihange 2. Recent drought periods have had no impact on the level of the Tihange table, which remains at its peak. In addition, the performance of the Tihange 2 well pumps has been improved, thus optimizing pumping. Resupply of Tihange 2 water wells from Tihange 3 wells has also been planned. With regard to pump flow, the operating time of more than 30 days was already provided for the design of Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 and is still guaranteed. This was not the case at the time of the design of Tihange 1. As part of the "Belgian Stress Tests" resistance tests, the situation has been improved, while the operating time of more than 30 days is now guaranteed for this reactor. In this context, pumping stations have been strengthened to withstand external natural events such as tornadoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u94	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u95	Minister, I would like to return to my questions in July and December last year concerning 215 unsealed crayons in the deactivation pools of the Doel and Tihange reactors. In particular, I was surprised that it had been at least ten years since those 215 leaking pencils had been repaired. You replied that you would inquire and provide me with an answer on the non-sealing of these pencils.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u96	Mr. Cogolati, the first findings of unsealed fuel crayons date back to 1976 at Doel 2 and 1981 at Tihange 1. During the operation of a nuclear reactor, one or the other incident may occur, causing certain irradiated fuel crayons to be unsealed. This phenomenon is detected by an analysis of the primary water chemistry of the reactor and removed from its core at the next shutdown. Watertightness can have many origins. The main reason is the presence of migrant bodies which, despite the anti-debris grids assembled in assembly pieces, reach the fuel sheaths, get stuck there and end up causing repeated vibration piercings. There are also cases of manufacturing defects. An inventory of the number of unsealed crayons was undertaken in each reactor core and in each deactivation pool. In the event of a new discovery of unresistant pencil, this inventory will be updated. However, no cases have been detected for eight years in both Doel and Tihange. In addition, it is essential to explain that these pencils that were leaking under the mechanical stresses of the high-pressure and high-temperature reactor core are no longer leaking to date. Indeed, all fission gases have already escaped during the fuel cycle within the reactor. Now that the pencils are no longer at the heart of a fission, none of these gases are produced and therefore no longer escape into the reactor pool. The daily monitoring of the chemistry of the cooling water of these pools thus shows no problem of pen leakage. These pencils are, of course, unquenchable, and their handling must be avoided in order to limit mechanical stresses, but they do not spread radioactive material in the vicinity. For this reason, it is important to understand that these unsealed pencils cannot be extracted from reactor deactivation pools as long as they remain unsealed. With a view to dismantling the nuclear power plants, Engie-Electrabel has launched a programme to make these pencils leakproof with a view to evacuating the swimming pools. A first campaign of this program, historically aimed at Doel 1 and 2, was carried out in 2018-2019. A first repair campaign took place in Tihange 2 in mid-fall 2019. Another one was taken to Doel 3 this year. As a result, repairs to non-waterproof pencils have already been undertaken and are still planned. The project to repair damaged pencils will therefore continue at least until 2026. These campaigns will be controlled by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and its technical subsidiary Bel V. These repairs consist of the extraction of damaged pencils from the fuel assembly to replace them with inert pencils. In this way, the assembly regains its seal. To synthesize, repairs are carried out by encapsulating damaged fuel pencil in the pool where the pencils are located. This operation is carried out under water and limits as much as possible the handling of these unsealed pencils. After repair, the structural integrity of the pencils is completely restored, so that there will be no specific fear of these pencils if they were ever to be stored in SF2 buildings, given the low mechanical effort exerted on pencils on dry storage. Finally, the PSAN has no information on the costs of these operations, which are borne by the operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u97	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u98	Madam Minister, my colleagues will say that I am talking about EDS again, but I am really worried that all good initiatives are not getting worked up. Several initiatives have been developed in the police field: data sheets have been drawn up and the training module should be ready and passed through the HOC. Has that happened yet? When will this be put into practice? I am also concerned about the sensitisation and training of the OPP, the OGP and medical assistance. At the end of September we were told that the emergency doctors were not very happy with the chips distributed by FEDPOL to the various police forces. I am aware that the various services do everything in a multidisciplinary manner, but how can we ensure that they also multidisciplinaryly agree, so that we can be assured that, if such a case occurs again, everyone knows how to react?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u99	Mrs Ingels, the multidisciplinary working group you are talking about in your question concerns a local initiative of 2018 in the East Flanders region. That working group has delivered a very nice piece of work on EDS. This work is therefore being used today as a basis for the development of future training in the police services. The Internal Integrated Police Training Plan aims at three parts. A first course, module 1, focuses on phenomenon recognition of EDS, covering characteristics and good practice, and a second course, module 2, focuses on desirable interventions or reactions to EDS. The second training is practice-oriented. In a third phase, training will ideally be generalized to several forms of confusion in persons in a psychological crisis. That's the module 3. The training file Phenomena recognition EDS, the uniform educational support, the manuals and the PowerPoint presentation were approved by the various validation levels in the integrated police force and are presented to the High Consultation Committee today. The administrative and technical secretariat of my cabinet is working on an action plan to consider which partner may be a leading pilot i the desirable multidisciplinary approach. This work will show whether there is a need for, or support for, a common letter or other regulation in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u100	Thank you for the answer. We will continue to follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u101	Mr President, Minister, the last announcement of new measures took place in a new setting and I was actually satisfied with it. After all, the Consultation Committee is better suited for this because the National Security Council has no competence at all for safety, only for security. So I'm glad this is resolved now. On the one hand, there is the Consultation Committee and on the other hand, there are the federal crisis structures for which you are responsible, Celeval and COFECO. We're still in the federal phase right now. Madam Secretary, how are you going to reconcile all this? How can all the opinions given by these services be fully addressed by the Consultative Committee? Of course, the Home Affairs aspect plays a slightly smaller role in the Consultation Committee than before. How do you see these new structures working? I am absolutely in favour of this, but I want to make sure that the internal affairs aspects can be adequately addressed. One of the issues I am concerned about is the enforceability of the quarantine measures. That file has been dragging on for several months now. How much can the police help enforce that quarantine? After all, I hear that there are some legal and operational constraints. We can announce that there will be much more enforcement, which I certainly welcome, but it must of course also be practically feasible and legally substantiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u102	Mrs Ingels, you are asking a very legitimate and very important question. It goes without saying that the entire COOVID-19 crisis has been a special concern to me over the last few days, especially from my policy point of view. When the Consultative Committee meets on this issue, I am part of that meeting as Minister for the Interior. I am also present at the government's core meetings when it comes to COVID-19, as I am responsible for multidisciplinary crisis management, the enforcement and transposition of those policy decisions into a ministerial decision or an adaptation of a ministerial decision, as long as the federal phase is declared. The recommendations of Celeval and the advisers who form part of Celeval are first discussed at the Belgian Coordination Committee - COFECO. This committee is chaired by the Director of the National Crisis Centre, with whom I am also in very close contact. The mission of COFECO is to draw up a common picture of the situation and to test Celeval's recommendations against reality with all relevant services and experts, including the governors, who play an important role in managing and monitoring the crisis. Since last Friday, this has been done in close cooperation with the designated Corona Commissioner, who is responsible for coordinating the sanitary pillar, which is also crucial in this crisis. As long as the federal phase remains in force, I will continue to be responsible for the transposition of these measures, decided by the Consultation Committee, and for their translation into a ministerial decision. This is a special task because many measures have already been taken and may still need to be taken. The corresponding frequently asked questions will also be adapted to give further explanation where necessary and to be understandable to everyone. Like the last few months, the multidisciplinary information cell of the federal phase will continue to coordinate official communication to the population. The necessary efforts are being made to communicate inclusively, including with the involvement of the regions and all relevant authorities. Celeval has developed a barometer in a special composition to reflect the situation and the corresponding possible measures. In cooperation with the Corona Commissioner, the communication about the barometer will be prepared, which will also be done to all concerned in the very short term. We hope and assume that the barometer will play a central role in communication in the coming weeks and months. That instrument will be able to clearly identify the situation and the level of vigilance we are in. It will hopefully be able to motivate people from that perspective to maintain the measures. It will hopefully also provide people with a perspective of a possible decline in the state of vigilance, which is linked to the state of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u103	Madam Minister, I have one more point on the ministerial decisions. I have never understood from the outset why ministerial decisions are being taken. Rather, I would have worked with emergency KBs, as we used to do in other crisis situations. I found the vehicle of a ministerial decision strange from the beginning. I understand that there is little that can be changed now. Once we have left on that road, it seems to me difficult to get back to that. Perhaps, however, the barometer is an opportunity to pour the measures linked to the various codes in the barometer into a royal decree with a clear explicative report to the King, in order to obtain much more clarity? It's just a suggestion I wanted to take a look at. We can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u104	Minister, a few months ago, I asked your predecessor about the status of the new federal police establishment in Vottem. Phase 1 was to end. I also questioned him because the Saint-Léonard site offered quality reception conditions for staff who were unworthy of the working conditions necessary for their proper function, which was acknowledged by your predecessor. On the one hand, the latter had announced that we would receive Phase 1 as soon as possible, on the other hand, that he would not fail to request the Régie des Bâtiments to temporarily improve the working conditions at Saint-Léonard. Thirdly, he also told us that he would ensure the rapid implementation of phase 2. Minister, is the reception of Phase 1 well closed for Vottem? Has the relocation of the services concerned taken place? What about Phase 2? Is the file well engaged, yes or no? If not, what is blocking today? Why isn't this case started? What is the timetable for implementation? In the meantime, what interventions are planned on the Saint-Léonard site in the immediate and short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u105	Collègue Rigot, the provisional reception of the works is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments. The request for provisional receipt dated 19 August 2020, submitted by registered mail received on 6 August 2020 by Assar Architects and SA Willemen Groep FRANKI, was not accepted by the Régie des Bâtiments. Indeed, it has appeared that moving is not yet possible. The list of comments and their importance in ensuring proper facilities was too substantial. The Régie des Bâtiments requested the re-introduction of a new request for provisional reception in this regard. Compliance with the fire-fighting devices at the Saint-Léonard site is also the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments, which is currently implementing an action plan in collaboration with the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u106	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I confess that I am disappointed for the few thousand men and women involved in this construction. You're telling me that the reception of Phase 1 didn't take place. I'd like to know how long it can be, again, planned. With regard to Phase 2, I have not heard your answer regarding its status. What's the status? Do you think you can hire him as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u107	Mr President, Madam Minister, from Wednesday 18 March, Belgium forbade all non-essential travel abroad (in the meantime partly lifted as regards non-essential travel within Europe), essential movements were allowed all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u108	Mrs Van Bossuyt, in the current version, Article 18 of the MB on urgent measures to limit the spread of the COVID-19 virus prohibits only non-essential travel to our country from countries outside the EU, the Schengen area, the United Kingdom and the countries not included on the list published on the Foreign Affairs website. This means that no destination from our country is prohibited today to the extent that the country of destination allows travellers from our country. Non-essential travel to our country remains prohibited. However, there are two exceptions: firstly, travel from EU countries, the other Schengen countries and the United Kingdom are always permitted, and secondly, it is permitted to travel to our country from third countries included on a list published on the Foreign Affairs website. Essential travel from other countries is also permitted. The outline of what is considered an essential journey is described in the so-called FAQs on the reference website www.info-coronavirus.be. That list is based on the recommendation of the European Council of 30 June 2020 on temporary travel restrictions for non-essential travel to the European Union. The Recommendation contains eleven categories of travellers who are exempted from the ban. In the list professional motives prevail, which however does not allow all professional movements. There is no specific checklist to prove those destinations. One can support these with everything that is a plausible evidence to act as a beginning of evidence. In addition to the evidence relating to the essential nature of the movement, the normal conditions for access to Belgium still apply. From a Belgian perspective, travelling from Belgium is always possible, provided that you take certain measures when returning to Belgium. Entry into the country of destination depends, as I said earlier, on the country in question, where in certain cases a quarantine measure will also apply. Travel is not recommended for certain destinations or increased vigilance is required. The travel advice of the FPS Foreign Affairs Office can be consulted on the website of the FPS. They are topical and, of course, useful for anyone who wants to move. It is not possible to address the matter you mentioned in your question, also because certain elements of it are not reflected in the question. A citizen or a company that believes that he was wrongly prevented from leaving the country may challenge these restrictions in the same way as any other administrative decision that will normally affect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u109	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You refer to the website and to the FAQs. In that place I have already searched, but without finding what we were looking for. One week there is information, but a week later that information appears to have disappeared. I therefore hope that the information on that website will remain so that people can find the necessary information there effectively. You also referred to the Council's decisions. In any case, I think that the initiative of the European level to work with a European coordinated colour code will make it clearer for many people. I therefore hope that it will come into effect as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u110	Mr Rigot is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u111	On Thursday 8 October 2020 we saw videos on social media of young people fighting each other on the old market in Leuven. On the images we can see that some people do not wear their mouth mask well, that the young people are very close together and above all that they stand together in large numbers. Social distancing or the prohibition of co-training did not seem to show much. However, this is not the first time that party noise results in non-compliance with the corona measures. Just over a week ago, we saw the same thing in Ghent, in Overpoortstraat. However, this is unacceptable in times of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u112	I would add that the scenes we have seen in Ghent and in Leuven, the day before the entry into force of certain measures, can be predicted. Anyone could have anticipated that something might happen there. How come the local police didn't react better? I do not condemn young people; we can all understand how such things happen, even if the catering industry had taken measures. I find this somewhat strange given the predictability. Why did these things happen? That is the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u113	Mr Ingels, that is a good question, like all other questions, of course. The last night that the cafés were allowed to stay open last week, was in the beginning like all other student evenings during the first week of the academic year, being with a lot of enthusiastic students. Most also comply with the obligations, including in terms of masking. This has also been strictly controlled by the police since the beginning of the academic year. At 1:00 p.m., the cafes had to close. There have been very good agreements with the hotel and catering industry, which, by the way, are well respected by many restaurants. It is primarily the café bosses and their staff who ensure that customers leave the terraces of cafés and restaurants in good time. That in itself works well since the start of the academic year. The police are also present, but do not intervene if they do not need to. We had prior contact with the police about enforcement and measures. It is therefore not the case that no preparation had been made and that this was not anticipated because of the predictability of a number of scenes. There were also additional teams of the police standing by in the immediate vicinity of among others the Leuvense and Gentse nightlife neighborhoods. On Thursday evening, besides the four watch crews of two persons each, there were also four corona teams of two extra persons each. These additional services have been deployed since the beginning of the academic year. They proved to be sufficient to deal with any problems. On Thursday, the evening before the entry into force of the new measures, four additional patrols were sent to the Old Market, because it was clear that students had a persistent desire to continue. A more rigorous approach by the police was needed at that time. We must also bear in mind that thousands of young people leave the cafes and terraces at the same time at the time of closure. It took some time for all those young people to leave the exits of that square. Keeping distance wasn't obvious. We've seen that, too. Most students wore their mouth masks at the time. On Thursday evening, unlike other nights, many students, as expected, continued to shout and sing in the square together, which is not conducive to stopping the virus. I also understand that there has been a short-term fight, of which the police have not been notified and therefore have not been able to intervene. Afterwards, there was no mention of any victims. There were two more reports of small fights elsewhere in the city. A report was also drawn up for one of them. That will follow the normal route for further treatment. About twenty minutes after the closing of the cafés, the police started to clear the square in a quiet manner and show all students the way home. After twenty minutes the people were scattered and the square of the Old Market was emptied. There have been no exceptional incidents. During the evacuation of the Old Market, no persons were arrested or destroyed. Currently, the cafés throughout Belgium close at 23 o'clock and the police can once again limit themselves to visible presence. I would like to stress that the café bosses are making real efforts to ensure that everything is safe and smooth, that most students respect the rules and respect the work, that the city administration, as well as the university intervene where necessary, and that the police do indeed take firm and strict action against those who, despite everything and in spite of all warnings, do their duty. It also remains permanently spoken to the police. We monitor the enforcement, follow-up, nature and number of performances on a permanent basis, so that there is a strong signal to all citizens who follow carefully the measures we impose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u114	Thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-14-55-commissie-ic280x.u115	I thank the Minister for her long presence, longer than planned. The other questions will be postponed to a next committee meeting in which the Minister is present.
