ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u1	Good evening colleagues, welcome. I must thank the two ministers for coming to our committee at this unusual hour. At another time it would not have been obvious, taking into account the busy agenda of the ministers, to get together this week. I also wanted to avoid that the time between the appearance of the KBs and their discussion here in committee would be too long. Secondly, our committee can discuss these decisions, but of course it cannot change them. We will not vote on it either. There may one day be a legislative initiative to ratify all of these numbered KBs, but that is not the issue now. As far as the organisation of work is concerned, I am rude to those who are here in the Chamber. If you ask me to speak, please call me. The Members who ask to speak from a distance can indicate Raise hand in the application. Then I will give you the floor. Can't you turn on your micro until after? The secretaries will assist me in that. Colleagues, can you agree that we first have the numbered Royal Decree No. 1, for which Minister De Crem and Minister Geens are jointly responsible? Then we'll have the KB's numbers. I would like to make a few brief comments on this point. Are there any objections to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u2	What the Royal Decree No. 1, could we agree that I should first give the floor to the Members? In addition, we can choose. Do I give the floor first to the questioners and then to the members of the committee? If that's what people want, it's good for me too. It is up to you to make a choice in this matter. My suggestion would be to make things as efficient as possible and to limit speaking time by group, including the questioners. If I strictly apply the Rules of Procedure on the mini-debate, it is actually only two minutes per group. I would like to be somewhat generous in this, but let us limit the speaking time per group to a maximum of 5 minutes. Can you agree to that method? Are we going to start with the committee members or the questioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u3	Mr President, you say that the debate is limited to five minutes per group. Five minutes on Royal Decree No. 1, then five minutes on By-Laws 2, 3 and 4, which means that it is ten minutes in total or five minutes in total? Then, can there be a distribution of interventions by group among the same members of a group on the different royal decrees?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u4	I provide 5 minutes for the first hatch and 5 minutes for the second hatch, but if of course new and other arguments are used by the group I will not apply my chronometer strictly. It is mainly to avoid a repetition of arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I have two simple questions concerning the gas fines. Firstly, accepting the principle that it is necessary to pursue a uniform and efficient form of sanctioning on the ground, I wonder what your view is that the provisions on the GAS fines can only be implemented from the date of publication of the Royal Decree, whereas in practice many areas have already issued gas fines on this basis. What about the lack of retroactive effect of that provision? My second question is based on a concern for legal certainty. The ministerial decision is the only legal basis on which sanctions can be imposed. In practice, however, there remains a difference between the Guidelines of the Crisis Centre and what is laid down in the Ministerial Decision. How will this incompatibility be eliminated? Will a new ministerial decision be issued to ensure that the legal basis is uniform and clear to all those who impose sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. I hope everyone and your families are fine. Minister, we understand the need for urgent action in the fight against VOCID-19. The PTB has already made many proposals but has also taken concrete action. For example, medical homes – medicine for the people – tested the entire Zilverbos nursing home in Zelzate and the 39 PTB MPs from different parliaments paid half of their April salary to fight coronavirus at the Red Cross, World Medicine and Médecins Sans Frontières. In its open letter to the government on special powers, the Human Rights League recalled the importance, in exceptional circumstances, of the controls exercised on governments by parliaments, judges, the press and civil society. My political group has already expressed its fear, as a left-wing group and as a social group, that an anti-social agenda will be established by the special powers. Please be aware that the PTB remains vigilant. In the context of this coronavirus crisis, governments around the world are taking or announcing measures to restrict democratic rights. This is also the case in Belgium. Everyone understands that these measures temporarily restrict certain rights, such as the freedom to come and go. However, the PTB is concerned that the government may abuse the current situation to restrict democratic rights on the basis of a program that has been under way for some time. After all, in recent years we have already been able to observe severe restrictions on the rights of the population both in the field of justice and in the field of home affairs. We do not allow the government to attack fundamental rights. That is why, Minister, we are relieved that you did not pursue your idea of amending Article 1 of Special Powers Order No. 2, excluding the extension of the time limit for a whole category of citizens, namely asylum seekers. We were firmly opposed to it. The Council of State has also made a clear statement on the discriminatory nature of this measure. For us, this attempt to use the health crisis to unblock the rights of foreigners is alarming. It bears full witness to the importance for my group to remain attentive and vigilant. At the same time, we want our families, colleagues and neighbours to be strong and healthy. This means that we must all be careful, act responsibly and remain informed during this health crisis. However, whether they come from the first or second line, the field echoes tell the same story. Whether they are caregivers, postal workers, active in the food sector, distribution, logistics, health care, these workers work under largely inadequate health conditions and for wages that are often far too low. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of key sectors is far too long. We keep repeating it. Yet it is essential to ensure a safe environment for workers, as health must take precedence over any other consideration in these difficult times. With regard to sanctions, Robert Vertenueil, President of the FGTB, recalled the importance of a proportionate and coherent regime. For example, I quote: "The police have verbalized a group of four young people who gather in a park; then, installed in a van together, these four young people will work on a construction site. It's inconsistent. One cannot ask the public to have an attitude in privacy, and another in work." We support that view. We want the measures to be followed by the whole population, including businesses. Otherwise, the system of control and fines introduced by Special Powers Order No 1 cannot be effective. However, the checks carried out over the past two weeks show that 280 of the 328 companies inspected do not comply with the measures to combat VOCID-19. The rules must be respected, and certainly by businesses. On the other hand, the majority of the population respects the measures. The people are united and understand the importance of the public health issue. That is why, Minister, we believe it is important to have this discussion in conjunction with the issue of sanctions. Are you in favour of revising the list of key sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u7	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my speech on the SACs will be quite rapid. As ecologists, we obviously remain very attentive to the need to limit measures over time, as well as to their proportionality and effectiveness. We have some doubts about this last aspect. Indeed, we believe that there are already sufficient means to sanction infringements of the measures taken in the fight against coronavirus. SACs exist – as well as criminal sanctions – provided that a preliminary injunction is issued. In the field, police officers have become accustomed to using it in a proportionate manner. In your recent communications, Minister, you have argued that the entire territory, from Arlon to Ostend, should be governed by the same rules. However, it must be noted that this is not at all the spirit of the royal decree in question, since the municipalities will be able to choose to act as they did before or to apply this royal decree which, by the way, will require a decision of the communal council – which, in these times of social distancing, will not be easy. Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about the effectiveness of the Royal Order in question. It is our responsibility that some governors and chiefs of corps advise their areas not to apply the Royal Decree, but rather to use the means they have been using for more than three weeks. In addition, prosecutors-general also advocate criminal sanctions. My colleagues in the Committee on the Interior have expressed many criticisms of this measure. Who wanted it? What is the raison d'être of this royal decree, when several sanction tools were already available? Does this text reflect a concern for efficiency or an ideology? You have invoked the urgency not to seek an opinion from the Council of State. While the Royal Decree left the municipalities free to choose whether or not to apply this measure, should it not be seen as a contradiction? Finally, as the municipal council will have to meet to adapt the SAC regulation, what will be the date of entry into force of these new provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u8	Mr President, I would like to make a preliminary point. I have also included in the agenda a question which I originally tabled in the Committee on Trade and Development and which has been referred to this committee. I'll ask that question now. After all the questioners have asked their questions, I would also like to speak as a regular member of this committee with some reservations about the royal decision. Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the ministerial decision, the FAQ and the punishment of the infringements that occur in it. Minister, how many infringements have been detected by the police forces in the context of the enforcement of the mentioned ministerial decision and the FAQ? In how many cases was an immediate friendly settlement agreed? In how many cases did the persons concerned challenge the infringements? In how many cases have subpoenas already been sent? What attitude will the prosecutors take as regards the alleged violations of the FAQ rules which cannot be clearly deduced from the ministerial decision itself and which are thus in fact without an adequate legal basis? There is a possibility that a large part of the fines will be contested, precisely because of the lack of clarity. How will the prosecutors anticipate that dispute?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I had already put this question to you half a week ago. Then she was missing, but today we found them: she's here on this agenda. It concerns the application of the GAS. We had to wait for it. We looked forward to it, because on the ground this could be a useful measure. However, some time has passed and it was also decided that this should also be for the city council. That's not so obvious either. It's easy, but it takes time. Although this is a good instrument, I note that many police areas are choosing not to use the GAS today. One of the reasons seems to me that this will not apply to minors. Minister None has explained why last week, but I think it's a missed opportunity, I want to repeat that. Faced with young people who often find themselves invincible or who, especially when it is warm, feel that they need to come together to celebrate a little minifee, we can now only raise an admonitioning finger. I understand that this is not obvious, Minister, but it seems to me that this is a missed opportunity. If zones do apply it and so that the funds collected could go directly to the municipality, problems arise for police areas with several municipalities. If the police then want to collect immediately, they have to work with perhaps six account numbers or have six payment terminals at hand, which is practically very difficult to work, regardless of the immediate settlement. Was that considered in the formatting of the KB? It's still a difficult question. For the areas where it will be applied, it remains important how administrative enforcement will subsequently relate to the judicial system. That question stands for me today, but I did not want to abstain from you on the subject of minors either. With all due understanding for the reasons why, this seems to me to be a missed opportunity to act very adequately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u10	Gentlemen, thank you for being here today for some explanation. The Royal Decree has been in force since 6 April 2020 and in some municipalities the police have already issued GAS fines before that date, namely from the weekend of 21 March. Which municipalities are involved? What is the legal basis of the GAS fines issued before 6 April, in particular the immediate collections paid before that date? Can the offenders ever recover their money? What agreements were made between the local authorities and the public prosecutors on the sanctioning of infringements via GAS? Who will punish what? The crucial question for me is who was actually asking party to this royal decision. Of the police areas in my arrondissement, Halle-Vilvoorde, 12 out of 13 have already said that they do not need or will not use gas. The chiefs of police and the mayors say that. So there will be no municipal decisions on this either. That royal decree stipulates that the College of Attorneys General shall draw up a letter of conversion, which shall be there in the meantime. It would also be evaluated. How will it be evaluated? By who? Will the prosecutors and the courts only take into account the ministerial decision or the corresponding FAQs? Minister De Crem, last week you correctly replied that the ministerial decision is the only legally binding text and that the FAQs are an explanation. Will the parquets and the courts be able to use them or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u11	Mr President, my colleague Daniel Senesael is not present. I will therefore include his question in my more general statement, which will replace it. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence. I agree with my colleague's considerations and hope that you and your families will be doing well at this very particular time. Minister, first of all I have a general consideration, linked in particular to these royal orders of special powers. It is general since my party, the Socialist Party, has expressed its support for a full-fledged government and special powers. Nevertheless, he expressed many concerns. Proposals were made, criticisms of the texts were put on the table. Opinions are apparently not listened to. And then there's a speed. Sometimes I feel like we're confusing speed with precipitation. I am speaking of haste in particular with regard to this royal decree of special powers, which bears No. 1 and which relates to communal administrative sanctions. Why do I say we confuse speed with precipitation? Because it seems that in a rather complex federal state, no consultation could have taken place. I have heard it in my colleagues' speeches. The governors have been little heard. The chiefs of police zones have been unheard of. And I want to say that, unfortunately, the Brussels-Capital Region, which has a specific system, and whereas this is the usual case in terms of security, has not been heard. We have a royal decree of special powers for administrative sanctions, which does not apply in a compulsory but optional manner. Look for the mistake! Tomorrow, depending on the municipal administrative sanction that is applied, we will ask what the legal basis is. This will be the royal decree, or the general police regulation applicable to the zones. Which one will prevail over the other? Today, we don't know. Policy options have again not been discussed. We are actually talking about a communal administrative sanction, but on the theme of recidivism – this is an important theme – is the framework for communal administrative sanctions maintained, or is the framework different, rather by entering the criminal field? Again, no discussion about it, and no listening. There is an important philosophical difference between communal administrative sanctions, on the one hand, and integrating sanctions into the criminal field, on the other, in the sense that there could be a subsequent social impact. We are talking about young people in particular. Imagine, as in the case of driving, an unpaid criminal transaction. That means we're in the police court. Police court, conviction, criminal record. In addition, it is an obligation to be assisted by a lawyer, with the difficulties that are currently being experienced and which Mr. Geens is also very familiar with. So we're changing fields. We are no longer in the simple administrative and educational field. There is a philosophical difference which, for us, is important. We leave the field open for every communal council to adopt a police order. However, all those who are interested in communal management know that the communal councils are unable to hold themselves. I can be told that there are sometimes, and in each federated entity, decrees of government of special powers which delegate certain powers from the communal council to the college. But in such a specific matter, which is a matter of public policy, for which the federal government is competent to define the general framework, there is no guarantee that the delegation which is now made to the college in these matters can allow the validity of the communal decrees which would be taken not by the communal council but by the communal college. This royal decree adds an additional legal risk in communal management, which is already sufficiently complicated since local authorities are on the front line to combat this crisis of coronavirus, whether in municipalities or in CPAS. There are also all the other sanctions that are jumping. Why? What was the philosophical point of view in this respect? Why maintain only financial sanctions within the framework of these communal administrative sanctions and this royal decree of special powers. Again, there is a real question as to whether this is the most useful, the most suitable sanction. This is also the point of the scope of the municipal administrative sanctions. But here, we only repress by the wallet. At this level, there is also a social impact for those who will be affected. So there are many questions, many questions, many concerns that I do not think have been heard or not wanted to hear. In my view, it will be necessary to clarify this royal decree because it is out of the question of once again leaving the mayors and local authorities alone in the face of their responsibilities in managing this crisis and allowing them to assume alone the legal risks of a royal decree of special powers which are far too numerous to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u12	The groups that have not yet spoken will now have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u13	Mr President, for the time being the first royal decision is the only one for which no prior opinion was requested from the Council of State, on the grounds of urgency. It may still be necessary and urgent to do so, but it is not the intention that rapid, but imprecise and unclear legislation should ultimately ensure that the objectives of the text are not achieved. A striking example of this can be found in Article 8 of the Ministerial Decision of 3 April 2020 amending the MB of 23 March of the same year. Article 8 (2) states that persons are obliged to stay at home. It is prohibited to enter public roads and public places. What exactly is that "home"? Is that where someone stays the most or is dominated? There are people who live somewhere else half the year, by the sea, for example. There are people who are dominated for tax reasons in Knokke, for example, but live in reality in Antwerp. A young couple may live together in practice, but in theory they are still dominating with the parents. There are plenty of examples to show that it is crucial that the regulation is accurately expressed. The lack of clarity leads to discussions and disputes of unwritten gas fines and also creates conflicting situations when a gas fine is written out for facts that are open to different interpretations. I myself get countless messages from people who are wondering whether or not they should do something and, worse still, from people who have been fined for matters which are not clear or even prohibited at all, Minister. If I get so many messages, I can imagine that the flow of complaints from the competent services must be much greater. Therefore, clarity in legislation and communication is crucial. An opinion from the Council of State could have helped that, but unfortunately it has not been sought. So make sure that the rules are clarified and communicated in a uniform way, without experts and politicians getting mixed up and talking to each other in the media. That is not only bad for the credibility of politics. It also ensures that experts who should not, first and foremost, be involved in politics and government members, who now have to communicate life-saving directives, are taken less seriously in the long term. These uncertainties in the new regulation, combined with the extensive possibilities for immediate collection of administrative fines, could also lead to many fined citizens having to appeal for the lack of clarity and thus to overburden our judicial system even more. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is a concern for which we would like to see a number of precautions. Another point on which KB No. In my view, the second paragraph of Article 1 shows that the administrative penalty does not apply to an offender who is less than 18 years old. It seems to be forgotten that the majority of young people are not currently in school and that young people are a significant part of the offenders. By lowering the age limit, for example, one could have ensured, on the one hand, that parents would be inclined to exercise more control over their minor children and, on the other hand, that children would not have been too quickly tempted to violate the provisions, given the potential sanctions for their parents. In addition, gangs are active in the metropolitan areas which consist wholly or significantly of minors and which are totally unaware of any measure taken in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. A painful example of this was seen a few days ago in Anderlecht, not so far from here. It was desirable, and perhaps even necessary, that this category of persons should also be punished. As a final point of concern, I would like to point out that Article 18 of the Royal Decree states that this decision will enter into force on the day of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal, which is 7 April 2020. Notwithstanding the above provision, it should be noted that many municipal administrative penalties have already been issued in the Belgian Official Journal prior to the publication of the Royal Decree. So the next question is important. Should those sanctions be deemed never to have been due, given the lack of any legal basis? In addition, the question arises as to whether the municipalities which would already have received income from those sanctions should then repay those amounts to the persons at that time considered to be offenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u14	Mr President, I understood that the function of the VOCID-19 commission was to verify the conformity of the royal orders with the framework set for them. Clearly, the Royal Order as proposed corresponds to the framework of special powers. In this context and in accordance with the purpose of the committee, I can see that there is no contradiction with the powers granted by Parliament. As far as the substance is concerned, with regard to legal weakness, delegations were given by the guardianship powers to the communal colleges. Communal colleges are therefore legally empowered to take decisions. Perceptions are different in the three regions. In Wallonia, criminal proceedings were used and the police zones had agreed. Minister, you are now proposing a complementary arsenal. If it is ready in time and police areas are ready to implement it, this will be in addition to the need to enforce the recommended measures. Although the vast majority of the population respects these measures, it is important for everyone to respect them. So that's one more element. We support the government's action in general and we will not run counter to that, especially since it is not the commission's competence, since it simply has to verify the legality of the proposed order. In this context, there is no contradiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u15	Mr President, I do not really have a question, but rather I want to defend the gas fine. Many people follow the measures and do their best, even though it is not obvious, for example if they live on a small apartment. The police make great efforts every day to be present, to be friendly, to guard borders, 24 hours at 24 hours. Then it is our job as politicians to set the example and to make the efforts we ask of our citizens ourselves. Another important task is to give the police the tools to be able to act even better, faster and more efficiently against a smaller hard learner group that is not so close to the measures, as we saw again last weekend. We believe that the corona-gas fine is an opportunity to intervene quickly, because time is important in this crisis. Moreover, the administrative sanction system has proved its worth in the past. It is very important for us that guarantees were built in: there is the guarantee that the measure is temporary and exceptional and that the right to defence is guaranteed. In fact, we read in the Royal Decree that an immediate collection is only possible if the offender agrees and after being informed by the police of his rights. There is the possibility not to pay immediately and to call in the right to hear, which is also included in the GAS regulation, to do his story, if one does not agree with the sanction. Municipalities are also not obliged to include the GAS system in their regulations. Does that mean impunity? No, absolutely not. At that time, the detection of an offence will be the subject of a report, albeit by criminal law, by means of a proposal for an amicable settlement which will fall into the mailbox to pay the same amount, EUR 250, as soon as possible. So that's not impunity. What is very important for CD&V is that the administrative sanction is applied with common sense. Since the introduction of the GAS Act, a lot of symbolic discussions have been held on the gas fine. Then it was about whether people could eat a sandwich on the steps of the Antwerp City Hall. In the meantime, it has been found that the GAS law was applied with common sense to address a higher objective. In this corona crisis, the symbol discussion is mainly about whether to sit on the bench in the park or not. Colleagues, I think that is also a symbolic debate that has begun to lead its own lives. Perhaps it is necessary again to show what the higher goal is and what we want to achieve with the measures. That higher objective is, of course, to avoid co-training. It starts with a person sitting on a bench and eventually there are 10 or 20 people around, while we have to avoid exactly the contact between the different generations. So common sense is very important. And the police officer is certainly guided by that. I'm getting signals from the field that police officers will kindly ask people to comply with the measures. Citizens must also use their common sense: if it is not necessary to get out, it must not be done, and if it is to be done, it must be done in a sensible way. To conclude, we do have confidence in the use of the corona-gas fines. This will be done with common sense and with due regard for the right to defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u16	Mr President, I have three brief comments and seven brief questions, all of which I will put in five minutes. I shall begin with my three comments. Firstly, the purpose of this discussion must be to make the uniformity, proportionality and clarity as much as possible, especially with regard to Parliament's task. Secondly, I do not understand why the Council of State has not given an opinion on this matter, apart from the legal debate on whether it is desirable. The discussion about timing, that it has to be quick, is a non-discussion. Royal decisions are coming to Parliament at the same speed that has passed the Council of State. So there's no discussion about timing. Thirdly, this comment comes from this sitting. I am very surprised that Open Vld asks why this royal decision is necessary. Of all the parties here, only three belong to the executive. My questions will also explain why I find this confusing. Then I come to my seven brief questions. Firstly, this royal decree will only be given ground if the municipalities amend and extend their regulations. Is that right? Is there no way for the municipalities to apply this royal decree without amending the municipal regulations? This means that there will be different timing and operation. Secondly, what will happen in municipalities that have no GAS regulations? Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, what will happen to the gas fines before the Royal Decree? There are now three phases: GAS fines already given before the Royal Decree, the Royal Decree without amendment of the Municipal Regulations and the intermediate phase, namely the Royal Decree, but the Municipal Regulations have not yet been amended. How will this be handled legally, to at least create clarity and stability? Fourthly, the most important question of the debate is how to ensure uniform directives. Over the past few days there has also been a lot of discussion about terminology on the basis of Minister De Crem's ministerial decision. What do the terms mean? How will they be applied? Is there going to be a letter about the offences in general, which will clarify them? That is criminal law and administratively important. The police need clarity. The current terms such as "second stay" and "home" as well as other types of offences are unclear. Fifthly, Article 3 of the Royal Decree states that the College of Attorneys General will also draw up a letter of conversion. When's it due? Sixthly, the question that has not yet been asked is about the determination of the default. Why a forfait? Why, by definition, are 250 euros to be charged for any offence that will be fined with a gas fine? Is there a reason for that? In my view, there are many reasons why there should be a differentiation in the degree of infringements, as is the case in the current GAS law and regulations in the municipalities, to apply here too. Here in Ostend two people paused while cycling on a bench, because one of them is a heart patient, and they both got a fine of 250 euros. Finally, can the Ministers be very clear about the deadlines? For a lot of what we do, I think it is important that the deadlines are crystal clear. Parliament is also useful in this respect. What are the deadlines? If the municipalities and the cities change or amend their GAS regulations, does this mean that on the basis of this Royal Decree all adjustments will be terminated without exception at the end of the term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u17	Minister, of course we support the special powers approach. Nevertheless, there are still a few questions about this royal decree. It arrives very late during the confinement period, when it is supposed to punish violations of this confinement. It is clear that it is difficult for the communal councils to meet, and we wonder to what extent this tool is necessary in relation to the various arrangements that are already available to the municipalities, including the traditional administrative sanctions. The interlocking of the two systems is not obvious to our elected representatives, who would like to receive more clarification. Could you explain to us the added value of this order concerning administrative fines for sanctioning the rules on confinement? Because this tool seems redundant to us. In addition, some municipal colleges have amended their regulations to comply with this order. In our view, the municipal councils must adopt this regulation. Could you clarify this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u18	Which groups are asking for the floor? I suggest they indicate that if raise hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u19	Mr President, this committee controls the use of power of attorney decisions by the government on the basis of the special power of attorney law adopted by Parliament on 26 March. This was apparently unclear when listening to the previous speakers, but as far as I am concerned it is a double check. Firstly, there is the control of the legality and the opportunity of the proxy decision in question, and secondly, we also have control over the concrete impact and content of the royal decision. As regards the first check, it is true that the government can effectively introduce a system of gas fines by means of a proxy decision on the basis of Article 5 of the Power of Power Act. That's no problem at all. Nevertheless, the opportunity to work in this way is to formulate a thought. In granting the special powers of attorney, the Chamber asked quite unanimously to show the necessary restraint in the use of the powers of attorney and, where possible, to allow Parliament to act effectively. Especially when it comes to maintaining measures that restrict public freedom and the freedom of movement, a democratic and transparent approach is needed. Between the date of adoption of the proxy law and the date of entry into force of the GAS-KB, eleven days went by. In times of crisis, that's a long time. In those 11 days, this could also have been dealt with by parliamentary means in the form of a legislative proposal, in all transparency and with much greater democratic legitimacy than the way in which the royal decision is now to be made. As far as this first check is concerned, I can only conclude that the government may not have formally coloured outside the lines of the legislative framework, but rather that it should have left the pen to Parliament in this matter. I therefore hope that, in the remaining period of the power of attorneys until the end of June, more restraint will be shown on their use. A second aspect concerns the content. Questions have already been asked about this, among others by Mr De Wit. The committee is somewhat atypical after the facts. At the time of our discussion, the relevant legislation has been in place for more than a week. Nevertheless, I have a few short questions. We support the principle of creating an additional sanction mechanism in the context of maintaining the corona measures. The fact that not all municipalities will use it is not a bad thing: there have always been bigger and less big fans of the GAS fines. That's not a problem in itself. It is also positive that there is an explicit opt-out for a temporary mechanism, which is only applicable for the duration of the authorisation granted by the Power of Power Act of 27 March 2020. However, the choice to introduce a separate regime, in addition to the GAS Act, also inherently has a number of disadvantages that could perhaps have been avoided if one had opted for the necessary adaptation of Article 3 of the GAS Act. In this way, questions can be asked, Mr Crombez, when choosing a fixed fine of EUR 250 per infringement. I understand that this would have been a choice of unity and uniformity of application across the country and would correspond to the amount of the amicable settlement in the letter of the College of Attorney General, but the choice also has many disadvantages. It allows no variations in sanctioning and in some cases it would also be disproportionate and possibly could be corrected by a judge. Has that played a role in excluding minors? As my colleague has already pointed out, we did ask some questions at the outset about the exclusion of minors from the scope of the Royal Decree. We also see that this policy measure is difficult to reconcile with what is happening on the streets: many young people still party together, still party at lockdown parties or meet up with each other. They are spared from the possibility of imposing administrative penalties on them by the separate system set up by the Royal Decree. They can only be punished in criminal terms. In addition, I have a number of factual and numerical questions, but I suppose that will not be answered in committee today. I would therefore like to put that question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u20	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Ministers for their presence. It is essential that government ministers come to these committee meetings personally to answer questions. Secondly, there can be an endless discussion between the lines of the bills or the orders of special powers. The most important thing is that certain decisions must be taken. Having said that, we must regret that it is a posteriori that we have the information which has already been widely commented on in the press and which is also the subject of controversy. The other element is the time for discussion here in session. Indeed, I read, Mr.Minister, that you had already announced a tightening of the control measures from tomorrow, that is, after the National Security Council, just as you had already announced that it was the end of the major demonstrations in the summer. I believe that if we want to remain effective, we must respect the sequences and what has been agreed. Perhaps, without revealing the crown, are there any additional information that will add to this first decree of special powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister De Crem and I have kept to speaking to you as early as possible. In view of the Easter weekend and the forthcoming meeting of the National Security Council, that was not easy, which means that we are sitting here at a somewhat unusual hour. I express my deep gratitude for your availability to move the meeting to this evening at 6 p.m. on such short notice. Mr President, with your well-being and in order to allow Minister De Crem to return to his urgent duties, I shall first say a few words about the first royal decree and the questions relating to Royal Decree No. 1 answer. Mr De Crem can build on the administrative responses to this. If there are subsequent royal decrees No. I am prepared to answer these questions, two, three and four, and I will of course remain at your disposal. Allow me to say first in general, and without prejudice to what Mr De Crem will say in a moment, that eleven days in law is a short term. In the economy and in health care, miracles can be performed on 11 days, but in the legal world eleven days is about the shortest possible time. Even in the case of a unilateral order leading to a non-contested hearing, it is difficult to submit the order, make a decision and implement that decision in the short term. I know that your Parliament would have done this even faster, but if it had, eleven days would have been a short time. Under the circumstances, I believe, without getting on our chests, that we have done it in a reasonable period of time. This was also necessary in view of the gravity of the situation. I had the feeling, but I have to say that in very strange terms, that the decision not to go to the Council of State was not only borne by the government. I felt that this had a much broader support for the ten parties that form part of the national union. You all know me as a very careful man, I would never have taken that on my french shoulders alone. Thirdly, I am a little surprised to hear several eminent colleagues here from the most beautiful province in Belgium, who is Flemish Brabant, say that that province absolutely does not need gas fines. There are other provinces they don't need. Mr Vandenput, for a Minister of Justice, it would be formidable to say that we can only deal with criminal law because we have the immediate collection and a performing court. Now, in the Empire that is yours and ours, there was a rather urgent question to be able to arrange this administratively for anyone who wants it. The municipal autonomy is perfectly respected, every municipality does exactly what it wants. At a rate as high as that of the ministers when taking the power of attorney decision, perhaps even faster, in less than 11 days, the College of Attorneys-General, together with the Minister of the Interior, immediately said that we will take care of this as well as possible, so that every municipality can do exactly what it wants. She can impose municipal administrative sanctions or she can't do that. Under these circumstances, no one can be unhappy, because the fine is the same in every municipality. The criminal fine is in line with that, for those who do not want it. Criminal law also fits perfectly with the gas fines for those who recur in the municipalities where gas fines are imposed and from the first time in the municipalities where no gas fines are imposed. Many, and Mr De Crem will come back to that, wonder why no advice was requested from the Council of State. A question has also been asked about retroactivity. Everyone knows that retroactivity is not possible in criminal law and criminal law. That is why it was difficult for us to ask for that opinion from the Council of State, because a number of municipalities and, above all, large cities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is for this reason that we have not asked for the opinion of the Council of State, with a fairly broad support, without betraying the secret of the debate. The criminal law approach had already been activated before, by the combination of, on the one hand, the ministerial decision, the De Crem decision, which everyone knows, and, on the other hand, Articles 182 and 187 of the Civil Security Act. After a first phase, which also focused on warnings, a more stringent approach was soon implemented, with the letter of 25 March from the College of Attorneys General. The circular shall be reviewed on a daily basis, taking into account the evolution of the situation and the new measures taken by the government. This has already led to a new version of the circular, which was adopted on 7 April and on which the President of the College of Attorneys General commented on television last night. For example, this circular provides for an amicable settlement in the event of a first infringement, unless the person is clearly in good faith. Subpoenas shall be made from the second infringement. We must be careful with the figures, as they are worked in a very short and recent period of time. However, I will give some of them, but they are provisional and certainly do not allow to form an overall picture, nor to draw any conclusions. Several figures requested are not yet available. This concerns the number of facts found on the basis of criminal offences other than those provided for in the Civil Security Act. I can inform you that approximately 27,300 facts were registered by the police forces in the ANG, the General National Data Bank, in the context of infringements of measures in the fight against COVID-19, since its introduction until 13 April 2020. 2,800 proposals for friendly settlement have already been made by the public prosecutor himself. Most of it, about 2,400, concerns friendly solutions of 250 euros, about 50 are more serious infringements of 750 euros and the rest is between 250 and 1,500 euros. There would already be about 40 summonses before the courts. You have seen on television several times an exemplary case at the Brussels Correctional Court to show you that the courts are prosecuting the prosecution. The transaction allows the person, if he or she recognizes the facts and pays the expected amount of 250 euros for individuals, to no longer be subject to criminal prosecution. The criminal penalty may indeed be much higher. The criminal transaction is also useful to avoid congestion in the courts. With regard to this basic amount of EUR 250 for individuals and the income differences between them, it is an interesting criminal policy issue but it is not new. Today, driving offences, such as speeding, are punished in the same way, regardless of the vehicle's brand and the author's state of fortune. The figures for the amounts give an idea of the distribution between individuals and enterprises, but here too we must be careful with the figures. I can tell you that the use of the immediate criminal transaction is now possible. The police offer, in some cases, a payment by Bancontact or smartphone at the time of the finding of the offence. A lot of work has been done to quickly increase the number of Bancontact terminals available and to adapt the processes. Some questions relate to the application by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the formulations contained in the ministerial decree. It is the responsibility of each judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office to verify whether the constituent elements are combined and, if so, to provide a criminal response to the facts to the extent of their seriousness and their possible or proven consequences on public health. It will be up to the courts and tribunals to assess its materiality, accountability and sanction them. It should be noted that the provisions of COL 6/2020 prescribe the following. A detailed report shall be drawn up on a systematic basis, giving details of the circumstances of the infringement, except where there is clear good faith in the person concerned. The immediate amicable settlement should be reserved for cases where little or no interpretation is possible, such as the compulsory closure of a shop or business or the prohibition of cooperation. In its press release on COL 6/2020, the College of Attorneys-General recalls this. The College, which, under the law, ensures the coherent development and coordination of criminal law policies throughout the country, stresses the importance of ensuring that the police and police authorities ensure that the restrictive measures are strictly applied, but at the same time that they are thoughtful and fair, in order to avoid a sense of injustice among the population. The FAQs are an interpretation tool. The College explicitly mentions the FAQs in its circular. As you understand, the College's circular COL 6/2020 is an important tool to ensure uniform application of criminal law policy on infringements of the containment rules. This letter is also the basic instrument for the relationship to the gas fines made possible by the recent KB, to which Mr De Crem will be referring shortly. Several questions you asked related to the relationship with the local public prosecutors in the application of the KB and the municipal administrative sanctions. I would remind you that we could not completely replace the criminal law approach with an administrative approach. That was not appropriate, because certain serious behaviours should remain under the criminal law approach. It was also not possible, because not all municipalities are equipped for and do not want to be gas fines, which I understand very well. The criminal and administrative approaches therefore exist side by side. We call that kind of infringement mixed, des infractions mixedtes. In order to allow municipal administrative sanctions, it was necessary to regulate the relationship with the criminal law approach. In the Act on communal administrative sanctions, this relationship is governed by a protocol between the local prosecutor's office and the municipality. This seemed to be too heavy a mechanism with the risk of too great a disparity from one municipality to another. The Royal Decree, which is largely based on the Act on communal administrative sanctions, departs from it on this specific point: there is no longer a need for a protocol with the local prosecutor's office. This is replaced by the College Circular that we have already mentioned. Its 7 April version explicitly regulates the relationship with administrative sanctions. This relationship can be summarized as follows. Each municipality decides whether or not it wants to resort to communal administrative sanctions, there is no obligation. If the municipality does not want or cannot use communal administrative sanctions, the criminal approach remains applicable. We are aware that this will create differences depending on where the offence was committed. But this is already the current situation for all existing mixed offences. We have ensured that the amounts of administrative sanctions and the criminal transaction are similar. If the municipality uses communal administrative sanctions, it can only do so within the limits set by the College's circular. In particular, this means that administrative sanctions are no longer possible as soon as the person has committed a second offence. In this case, the criminal approach systematically takes the hand. So far, my brief explanation and now I would like to explain to Mr De Crem the gas fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u22	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction, I would remind you that Royal Decree No. 1 of 6 April 2020 introduced and imposed an administrative fine of EUR 250 at the municipal level for criminal offences under the Ministerial Decree of 23 March 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of the VOCID-19 virus. To be quite clear, this is a decree of special powers, taken on the basis of Article 5 of the Second Law of 27 March 2020 enabling the King to take measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus VOCID-19. On 7 April 2020, the College of Attorneys General of the Courts of Appeal updated its Circular 06/2020 in the light of this new Royal Decree No. 1, as the Minister of Justice just pointed out. Chapter II of Circular 06/2020 of the College of Public Prosecutors includes, inter alia, binding directives when a municipality decides to impose communal administrative sanctions for infringements of the Ministerial Decree of 23 March 2020. This circular must then be attached to the communal regulation. Point 3.1.1. of the circular is particularly important for police services. This point indeed deals with the finding of facts and the investigation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday, 10 April 2020, I sent a ministerial letter to the cities and municipalities explaining the possibility offered by the Royal Decree No. 1 and with an example provision for a municipal regulation or municipal regulation that can be used to enter the system. I would also like to stress that the new system of gas fines is complementary. Where one chooses not to enter this system, as you mentioned earlier, for example, because the municipality in question has not opted for a gas regulation in the event of a classic nuisance, the criminal law approach, including friendly settlements, will ensure that there is no impunity. Both in the criminal justice system and in the system of the GAS fines there is a possibility of immediate collection if the offender recognises and agrees. When a municipality chooses the KB No. In the event of a criminal offence which cannot be sanctioned by an administrative sanction or in the event of a repetition, the prosecution will only proceed in the event of a criminal offence. In the case of other infringements, a separate CV is drawn up and these will be known in the normal manner of handling, according to the letter 06/2020, to which reference was made. In the event of a recidivism, a direct summons shall be made in accordance with letter 06/2020. The immediate collections will have to be limited to the initial findings of cases in particular where little or no interpretation is possible, for example the compulsory closure of a shop or the prohibition of cooperation. Payment terminals have been provided by the Justice Department for the immediate friendly settlement. The municipalities will have to provide the necessary resources for the immediate collection of the GAS fines. The municipalities which have already implemented the system of immediate collection in practice under the GAS legislation, which indeed allows immediate collection in limited cases, will undoubtedly be able to use the already replaced payment terminals. I would like to emphasise once again, Mr President, and Mr Minister for Justice and Deputy Prime Minister, that municipalities are not obliged to apply the immediate collection for gas fines. They can also opt for the classic procedure through the sanctioning official. For the municipalities, therefore, the practice will be very similar to what they are already doing or not doing. However, for some crimes, such as spitting on cops, the offender will not get rid of them with a friendly settlement, but will be severely punished, as you can read in the debrief. Of course, I believe that local police forces should be reasonable, but the seriousness of the situation also requires careful monitoring that the measures to combat the virus are also respected by everyone. If a person considers that he or she is not in breach and disagrees with the police officer on this matter, and subsequently in the case of a gas procedure with the sanctioning official, the person concerned may lodge defence in the subsequent proceedings and, where appropriate, appeal. In the case of the GAS system, the appeal shall be lodged with the police court for civil procedure treatment. Royal Decree No. 1 of 6 April 2020 shall not be retroactive. So it's too early to reflect on first numbers. As far as monitoring is concerned, I would first of all like to monitor which and how many municipalities choose to effectively implement the GAS system for the infringements of the MB of 23 March 2020. The cities and municipalities have a five-year reporting obligation based on Article 52 of the GAS Act, the law on municipal administrative sanctions. It sets out the number of administrative fines imposed, the categories of infringements for which they were committed and the procedural difficulties which the application of this law gave rise to. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice and Deputy Prime Minister, as regards the introduction of the SAC system, the municipal council can or must adopt a regulation. It seems to me that a municipality does not necessarily have to refer to Article 187 of the Law of 15 May 2007 on civil security but with Royal Decree No. 1 "Concerning the fight against non-compliance with emergency measures to limit the spread of RONAvirus VOCID-19 through the introduction of municipal administrative sanctions [[.]] Article 1 of the said Order of Special Powers stipulates that an administrative fine may also be imposed for the offences referred to in Article 187 of the aforementioned Law of 15 May 2007 in so far as they relate to the refusal or failure to comply with the measures ordered pursuant to the Article 182 of this Act. In these exceptional times, the Minister of Justice and I have chosen not to provide for mediation procedures and alternative sanctions for infringements of the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020. After all, social interaction must be kept to a minimum. We have chosen a uniform and unambiguous approach, with the penalty of EUR 250 aligned with that of the friendly solution for individuals in the criminal justice approach. In this way we achieve maximum uniformity throughout the territory, even if the GAS system is not introduced by each city or municipality. For minors, the GAS Act provides for a special regime, including a conciliation procedure and the presence of a lawyer, and with a possibility of appeal through the juvenile court rather than the police court. However, conciliation procedures are not appropriate in these corona times, taking account of distance. It was therefore chosen to exclude minors from the application of the GAS fines for infringements of the corona measures. However, this does not mean that minors can ignore the corona measures, quite the contrary. For minors who do not comply with the rules, a pv will always be drawn up and contact will always be made with the parents or the institution where the younger person resides. Each pv will be followed by the parquet. This may lead to the action of the Juvenile Court. If a minor continues to ignore the co-training ban or spits on other people, there may be an immediate preliminaries at the court or at the juvenile court. For more details, please refer to the letter from the College of Attorney General. I therefore assume that persons who consider that they were wrongly fined a GAS fine by a municipality will make their defence and appeal if necessary. For any intended or imposed gas fine, it is obviously necessary to examine the legal basis and, if it is missing, the logical consequence is that it is not imposed or undone. For each individual dossier, it is up to the competent local authorities to make a final assessment. At present, I have no figures on such dossiers and no list of municipalities where this problem has occurred or would have occurred. The revenues of the GAS fines imposed in accordance with the Royal Decree No. 1 flow to the municipal or city greenhouse, as well as the revenue from the general GAS regulation. The revenues of the amicable settlements in accordance with the circular 06/2020 initially flow to the Justice Department. So much for my reply, Mr President and colleagues, in addition to what the Minister of Justice and my colleague in the government has said to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u23	I thank both ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, do certain groups still wish to replicate this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u24	Mr President, the Ministers of Justice and the Interior, I am sorry to say that I do not know whether we are taking part in a committee of the House of Representatives or in a press conference of the Minister of the Interior. I am sorry to have to be so severe but a lot of questions have been asked and I have received no answer; I have only heard the statement of Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 1. If it is simply a matter of hearing the re-reading of the articles and not answering any questions, I do not think there is any question of proper parliamentary scrutiny. We asked a question about philosophical choice in case of recidivism, which you did not answer. We asked a question about the ideological choice of simply giving a penal fine, without applying the other measures, which you also did not answer. On the other hand, you have answered another question by confirming that the mayors and the communes will find themselves alone in the face of their responsibilities in this legal imbroglio and will have to decide, depending on the fine, on the basis of the challenge that is made, whether the administrative fine is maintained or not. So you are referring the whole of the responsibility, when the legal framework is extremely complex, we are experiencing a lot of tensions and while everyone is trying to do their best, to the mayors and the communes by telling them to manage. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to what was also agreed at the Conference of Presidents. I have also listened very carefully to the Ministers' answers. I had the impression that many, even almost all, questions were answered. If a member considers that a particular question has not been answered, he has the right to re-table a question. This is where the parliamentary procedure applies. That is the agreement we made at the Conference of Presidents. In the meantime, Mr De Wit and Mr Crombez have also asked to speak. Mr De Wit has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u26	I'm gonna be very short. I have heard the answers and I have to join the previous colleague. The answers are very short. I just heard the colleague from the PS say that many mayors feel that they need to make their plan. I can confirm that this is true at local level, not just in terms of enforcement. Since the Minister didn't reply immediately, I'll do it. Who was the requesting party for this GAS regulation? Lots of local authorities, I think, and a lot of cops, too. This would enable them to act adequately in many cases. They have waited and hoped for it, but the KB and the texts that are before us have proved to be only procedural and incredibly difficult to work. They also asked for more time; hence the choice of friendly settlement in most places, and then even with transfer to reduce the risk of contamination even more. I think this is a missed opportunity in some areas, but it is now. But don't worry, one will maintain and do what one has to do on the ground. They will take their job to heart locally. It's just too bad. It could have been a good tool for local authorities and police areas, but it will have to be done in a different way, and it will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u27	I thank the ministers for the answers they have given, but I agree with the two previous colleagues, particularly with regard to their comments on the Minister for the Interior. In these times of very special circumstances, there is no point in wanting to push through only one's own instruments without even making the effort to answer concrete questions. What is the importance of a parliamentary assembly different? There is no answer to very specific questions to the Minister for the Interior. That is my first comment on the KB. It is necessary to provide uniformity, proportionality and clarity. Minister, those answers will not be given at the end of your'reading' session. You have explained the following. I will repeat it literally: 'We must find out what the legal basis is and whether or not it is missing'. That's the whole point. The questions of clarity are precisely about that legal basis. The fact that we have had so many discussions now is because it is difficult for your police but also for the people. What is now before you is your final conclusion, which is what you are failing to do here in Parliament, which I very much regret. Mr President, I will not even repeat my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u28	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Soors. I shall then give the floor to Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u29	Mr President, Ministers, thank you both for your presentation and for your answers. However, like Mr Crombez, I am not reassured about the legal basis of the way in which sanctions are now being sanctioned. I repeat that there are contradictions between the ministerial decision and the guidelines of the Crisis Centre. I repeat that the guidelines of the Crisis Centre are, at times, interpretations of matters that are not in the Ministerial Decision, which puts us in legal quicksand. That ambiguity is not good for anything and will only increase if we hear it from Mrs De Wit, who speaks on behalf of the mayors, let mayors themselves interpret what measures they will or will not maintain. Last weekend we saw an example of how discussions at such moments can spark off. I would once again call for this legal ambiguity to be removed. It is my firmest conviction that this can only be done through a ministerial decision that is up-to-date, as clear as possible and as transparent as possible. I strongly believe that in this way we give the police officers responsible for enforcement what they deserve, as do the citizens who are doing their utmost to comply day in and day out of the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u30	Mr President, I agree with some of my colleagues who express their outrage at the lack of answers, in particular to the question I asked about the inconsistency of the measures. If they are to be effective, how is it that sanctions measures are taken and nothing is put in place in areas that do not comply with protection measures? As I pointed out, 80% of companies do not comply with the protection measures and this is not taken into account. Are there any measures in this direction? We have to stay consistent. If the population is to comply with containment measures, which is mostly the case, let us ensure that all sectors of society that do not comply with these measures are equally punished! So I am still hungry for the question I asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u31	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, here we are hearing the story that we have not received any answers. I'd like to join the chairman. I've got answers to all my questions. I've also heard answers to questions I haven't asked. Nor, as discussed in the Conference of Presidents, can any question for figures be expected to be answered by the ministers here. Additional written questions may be asked. Don't make us play well-night games. I believe that the ministers here have answered very transparently the many questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u32	Mr President, I am relatively new in this House, but I have been wondering for several weeks and months whether it has always been the case that there are few or no or unclear and evasive answers to most of the questions asked to the relevant ministers. Today we received answers to a number of questions. A number of other questions were not answered in full. We are, of course, in a crisis situation. We can take the circumstances into account. We will re-table a number of questions in writing. Hopefully we will have a more comprehensive answer to that. We can understand the situation, but I do wonder whether it is not possible for ministers to answer questions in a more specific way. The obvious consequence of this is that the political debate and opposition work are going to move much more from Parliament to social media and the media. Whether that is a positive thing for the political metier, I do have questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u33	Would colleagues like to take the floor? [[No, no, ……]] Then we close the discussion of proxy decision No. One down. I thank Minister De Crem for his presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u34	I suggest that we then ask questions about the proxy decisions. 2, 3 and 4 with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bihet's 55004600C has been converted into a written question. Question No 55004609C by Mr Pivin was withdrawn. We therefore no longer have specific oral questions on proxy decisions. 2, 3 and 4. The Members who would like to speak on this can now ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u36	Mr President, my question will be limited to Royal Decree No. 3 on the enforcement of penalties and measures to combat the spread of coronavirus. My attention was drawn to article 6, § 2: "The execution of the custodial sentence shall not continue for the duration of the extended leave granted." I really have a total incomprehension, because from the moment the provision provides that for the inmate to have conditions, one remains well in the spirit of the law of prison leave, if conditions are imposed, one cannot consider that there is an interruption, but rather that it is an alternative modality. It is therefore necessary that the days be counted as the execution of the sentence. From the moment it is not recorded, this prolongs the sentence. In a context of widespread confinement, the inmate will eventually have an interest in returning to detention and thus seeing his sentence unfold, rather than being stuck at home or at home. Minister, is the inmate entitled to refuse this leave? The decision is in the hands of the director. How and who does he consult to assess? In this context of interruption of sentence, the inmate finds himself without means. He cannot claim the help of CPAS or others. Did you plan anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u37	Mr President, Minister, last week we had a debate in the Committee on Justice. I would like to mention a few points from the royal decrees, which have been less addressed. I am referring in particular to the royal decisions in criminal matters, criminal proceedings and the execution of sentences during this corona crisis. Minister, we have a debate on it now, but I must say that the royal decrees have already been published. Not only figuratively, but also literally these are figs after Easter. I read in the royal decree that there is a temporal scope, from 18 March to 3 May. That may be a harbinger of what will be decided or communicated tomorrow. I also read that the King could adjust the expiry date of the measures. The Council of State has looked into this and has stated that an extension of the special powers cannot be achieved by a royal decision, but by a law. That adjustment wasn't made. Are we not going to be in trouble if the measures are still needed? In the Royal Decree, the limitation periods for both criminal proceedings and the execution of the penalties were all suspended, for the period during which the crisis measures continue to apply plus one month. You know, Minister, that many courts have postponed matters and hearings until September. Will the deadline for suspension be sufficient? Of course, it depends on when the end plus one month will fall, but September is already a long way ahead. Then there is the sentence, which we discussed last week. I understand very well that it is not clear today for both the staff and the prisoners in prison. All the understanding for that, especially when people are in a cell with more than one person. I understand that measures have been taken against the overpopulation, but I have specific questions. There is the interruption of the sentence, initially referred to as the extended leave. This was modified following a comment from the Council of State. The aim is to reduce the prison population and to reduce the exit and return to prison. I understand that one wants to avoid a va-et-vient in prisons, but when certain prisoners who are not sick or infected can now leave prison to go somewhere where the risk of infection is certainly so high or even higher, it does not always seem to me to be the most obvious measure. Moreover, the royal decree stipulates that when the director does not allow the leave out, because he can allow it, he must motivate the refusal very explicitly. I almost assume that the extended leave is almost the general arrangement rather than the exception. My question is therefore: how are you going to check the conditions for letting out? What about the end of this crisis? Will all the suspended sentences be carried out after all? What about the new sentences that have been suspended for the time being? How will we deal with the rapid increase in the prison population at that time? I know there is a lot of work to be done today, so I would be surprised if it were to succeed, but if these suspended sentences are to be carried out further, will we have the capacity to do so? There's gonna be a big spike. Shouldn't we be preparing for that? Should we rent a prison, as we have done in the past? Unless, of course, you would say that we forget those sentences, that they are no longer being carried out, but that is a completely different story. Not only can the Director interrupt the sentence, he can also, according to your royal decree, early release from prison six months before the end of the sentence. There are a number of exceptions, there are criteria and conditions, but I continue to read that as almost an automatism. It says, "The Director grants." It doesn't say "the director can." He's gonna have to judge it all anyway. Again, how will the conditions attached be checked? Or is it gonna be a discount on the sentence? I guess it could be something like that. On the research actions, the Royal Decree states that there should be flexible rules, especially on the reporting of the investigating judge. I read that the investigators are really doing their best to keep working, and I am very happy about that. But I also read that certain rules will have to be dealt with more flexibly, and then my warning is that this crisis cannot justify the violation of certain fundamental rules of the rule of law. That's my concern. I would like to make one final point, Minister. The letter from the Attorney General, which is linked to your royal decree, which is not issued by you but is written on your question, expressly states that the non-urgent convictions will not be enforced for the time being. Another stool for the prisons. Again with exceptions and conditions. But that is very broad, Minister. I fear that most of the penalties that are not currently being enforced, although a judge has deemed necessary, will no longer be carried out. It is very broad, because it is also about penalties that could be carried out in a different way, for example via electronic surveillance. I understand that Minister Demir has indicated that she wants to continue to carry out electronic surveillance and even start new cases. I hope that will be taken into account. Let me summarize the most important points in a general discussion. There are many key sectors that continue to operate today, such as supermarkets, garbage collection, police and mail. We all expect them to continue to work, and I expect the same from the Justice Department. I believe that this is a more than essential sector, a core task of the government, which must not stop. You can't. It is not because there is a health crisis that certain criminals should benefit from it. The fear that punishment will no longer be carried out is that the wrong impression is created that the government is not in control and that this cannot be done. The same applies to the treatment of criminal cases, where there is a great deal of delay. The personal appearance is no longer necessary in the context of the preliminary investigation, but for the effective trial things are now being postponed massively. There are other ways of dealing with this, such as the videoconferencing we are working with today. I hope that will happen. We do not know how much longer we will be in this crisis and we must not abandon this core task. I hope you will be very attentive to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u38	Minister, the Royal Decrees of Special Powers Nos. 2, 3 and 4 concerning civil procedure, criminal procedure and the issue of co-ownership are before us here. You will allow me to begin with some general considerations. You say it yourself, and we discussed it again last week in committee: one of the main flaws that we have to overcome is the de-financing of the judicial institution. You are not responsible for it, and I do not complain about it, but if this judicial institution had been properly funded, if the computerization you called for of your wishes had been effective and functioned optimally, perhaps we would not have to overcome, in a context of urgency, certain situations that we are going through, which are currently problematic, with regard to the pandemic. A principle goes through all the decrees of special powers, both in civil proceedings and in criminal proceedings, to which we are deeply committed. It should be recalled here. This is the question of the orality of the debates. It is a cardinal principle of public hearings and of justice itself. It is undermined to a extent which I believe may be considered to be proportionate here, through these royal decrees of special powers, to organize itself in difficulties. But this orality of the debates, and therefore the pitfall of these decrees relating to civil procedure and criminal procedure, must be restored to their pre-existing dimensions, from the end of the confinement. It is a cardinal principle that we hold and that I wanted to recall. Finally, the Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 1, which changed profoundly between the first and the post-Council of State, was a cause for concern. It relates to administrative jurisdiction and federal administrative jurisdiction. The Conseil d'Etat and the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers have been removed from this royal decree of special powers, but are not currently subject to specific rules. When do you think that legislation relating to federal administrative tribunals will come to us? How long? Will the principles be modelled on those that have been defined? Will they be fully or partially modelled? There was concern, the cause of which had been denounced, inter alia, by the Orders and by the Council of State itself. The administrative jurisdiction of the Aliens Litigation Council would not follow all the rules applicable to the Council of State. Where we already have procedural differences, we would then have a two-tiered administrative dispute that is even greater. I would like to point out that this is an important element in our view. It is not a question of creating, through rules specific to administrative courts, a distortion between administrative disputes themselves. As the general considerations have been made, I shall turn to the more specific considerations of Royal Decrees Nos. 2, 3 and 4. Royal Decree No. 2 has evolved enormously between its first and last version, and I wanted to salute it because these developments are in the right direction. There were many concerns that appeared to have been met, notably following comments by the Council of State. There are still elements that – as I said in the context of the parties' presence and the orality of the proceedings, the absolute assurance that no one is harmed by these new types of proceedings – must be tested, in particular as to the discretion which is left to the judge to decide whether to deliberate, in certain circumstances, when there is only one person who requests it or when a person is failing or is not assisted by counsel and therefore is not familiar or customary with civil proceedings. With regard to the Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 3, there are concerns about the question of being able to be tried without being heard. However, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights states that in criminal matters, the accused or accused must be compelled to appear rather than to restrict his or her ability to appear. It is important for us to ensure that this fundamental right for the detainee, accused person or accused person to be heard and to appear can be guaranteed. There is also the question of time limits, where it seems to me to be a distortion between the procedure valid in civil courts and that in criminal courts. Indeed, where it is considered that the time limits for appeal before the civil courts, which are one month from service, may be suspended, for the time limits for appeal before the criminal courts, they are considered not to be so. There is no suspension granted. I wanted to hear from you about that. However, the delays in bringing proceedings before criminal courts are shorter and their taking of courses is faster, since it is not a matter of waiting for potential meaning. I also wanted to hear from you on the issue of the statute of limitations, since it is indeed considered that there is a legal cause for suspending the statute of limitations in criminal matters. You legitimize this issue of limitation by the necessity, in the interests of preserving the rule of law, that the causes that might be prescribed should not be so during this particular period. I want to reverse this and make another presentation to you which is to say that the shortest grounds for limitation, particularly in the case of driving, are two years and, if they are interrupted, if they are the subject of an interruptive act, they may be up to four years in the case of criminal proceedings. This would mean that, for minor offences, it would already take four years for a person to be tried at this time. There are other questions that you know, namely being tried within a reasonable period of time with respect to this cause of limitation. It is therefore not as in the case of prescriptions in civil matters where the action must be brought. However, the public action must have been completed within this limitation period. And here I really wonder about the question of the rule of law and the balance that is made between the rights of a detainee, accused person or accused person to be tried within a reasonable time and the right of the State to try him again after five or even ten years because of interruptions in this period. How did you make this balance to judge that it was absolutely necessary to suspend this cause of limitation? There is the question of the time limits provided for in the Franchimont procedures, which are not extended, and, as my colleague has said, there is indeed the particular question of the interruption of the sentence, namely, a measure which, in the interests of reducing prison congestion, asks people to leave. However, contrary to a time limit for proof, it is considered that this interruption, this departure, does not run a time limit. People are therefore asked to leave prison, to spend time out of prison without ever finally allowing the pre-trial proof, perhaps of their proper behaviour and civility in society, to be taken into account in the execution of the sentence. This is our question. As for Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 4, why was it ultimately limited to considerations relating to condominiums, since it is now apparent that the use of videoconferencing for the holding of general meetings exists in the Code of Companies and Associations for certain specific social forms (SCRL, SC and SA) provided that there is a statutory derogation. This possibility does not exist in the Code of Companies and Associations – in particular as regards the latter and foundations. Instead of limiting this provision to general meetings of condominiums, because a videoconference could have been beneficial – especially for associations and foundations – why not have undertaken a comprehensive reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u39	Mr President, the KB makes the written procedure a temporary and automatic rule for all matters that are fully capable and for which a session date was set during this crisis. A prior question to be asked here is whether there is a need. The area, including the Supreme Court of Justice, rightly raises the question of whether it is necessary to change the legislative framework during the duration of this crisis. Firstly, that possibility already exists today, particularly in Article 755 of the Civil Code. Many courts already apply them. Why can't and shouldn't the different chiefs manage that? They know their court or court best and can take into account the nature of the disputes. Secondly, clear guidelines have been drawn up for the College of Courts and Courts from the start of the crisis. In addition, there is a clear letter from the College of Attorneys General. Both documents provide detailed arrangements for the operation of the Court of Justice, from the highest to the lowest court. The original text was almost levelled, including by the Council of State and the Supreme Court of Justice. However, Minister, it is to your credit that you have listened to these justified criticisms and have thoroughly updated the initial version. My group is therefore pleased that the comments made by the Council of State and some of the comments made by the Supreme Court of Justice in the Memorandum of the Joint Consultative Committee of Inquiry have been largely taken into account. However, this does not prevent my group from making a number of comments and expressing concerns about the RB. Firstly, the Royal Decree provides for a comprehensive regime for the extension of time limits in civil matters. For example, the deadlines will be postponed in all dossiers which will expire on 9 March and which will expire on 3 May. However, the measure can be extended if the corona crisis continues, and this is what it looks like. A party may object to this, but the judge decides and no appeal against it is possible. There are exceptions, for example when it comes to urgent matters, but that is the rule. Is there, however, a need to automatically postpone all deadlines? Why do you assume that the deadlines for conclusion should be postponed, Minister? Most lawyers are sitting in their offices or at home working in peace today, they do not have to go to court, they are not allowed, physically at least, to receive clients anymore and therefore have more than enough time to get their files in order. How else would they have done so in normal circumstances, when they would have to combine the drafting of a conclusion with all their other work as a lawyer? Many lawyers and bailiffs have therefore adapted to the sequestration measures and meet their clients via video and use electronic means of communication with the courts. Legal professionals are also suffering from this crisis. In its opinion on the matter, the Supreme Court made no mistake: "The postponement of all time limits up to one month after the end of the period of seclusion could mean the death penalty for these legal professionals. Moreover, the measure under consideration appears to be all the more excessive since it merely relies on the risk, which is not supported by objective evidence, that the procedural acts could not be fulfilled in time." In this way you reduce the workload considerably. After all, we must not forget that a great many cases have already been made in September and October. Should the judges combine those cases with those relating to the application of Royal Decree No. 2 are postponed, or will all these matters be postponed in order to give priority to the cases in which the time limits were extended by that royal decree? I would like to warn you that the extension of the time limits during the separate period will simply delay the problems until after the crisis. Secondly, the principle of written procedure applies to cases established for the legal proceedings from 11 April to 3 June. However, the court may still ask that the parties provide oral clarification, possibly by videoconferencing. Of course, that is fine, but there is still a great pain, namely insufficient information technology in the field, which has been very old for many years. You must urgently make sufficient and effective informatics available to magistrates and their administrative staff, otherwise that provision will also remain dead letter, which you know as well as I do. Moreover, you also ignore the opinion of different legal practitioners that the written procedure introduced is not appropriate for certain specific issues, such as collective debt regulation, family disputes, numerous disputes for the peace courts or labour courts and also seizures. In my third point, I would like to ask you what you do with absenteeism. The default procedure, as defined in the Civil Code, shall be temporarily suspended. When the defendant defaults, the case is automatically sent to the role. I'm sure the report on that practice will be out in the open very soon. It increases the risk that subpoenas will deliberately default to put their file on the long track. What is the case with the defence of the plaintiff's rights? After all, the plaintiff is powerless, must tolerate all of this, and must bear in mind that his unpaid invoice will remain unpaid for a long time or that a crooked tenant can continue to live in his apartment without paying rent. That is really unacceptable to us. For many, this will reduce confidence in our rule of law. Fourthly, what do we do with the judge without counsel? What happens to procedures in which a seeker appears in person without the assistance of a counselor? The extension shall, in principle, be automatic, i.e. the Registrar shall not be required to send messages. What is the fate of these procedures? It is even more difficult for them to defend themselves in written proceedings than if they could give oral testimony in a court hearing. I am thinking of procedures before the court of peace, before the labour court and before the family court. There are no clear arrangements for this. I hope those people who seek justice will not stand in the cold, Minister. Fifthly, and finally, I have a point about the task of bailiffs. Notwithstanding the time limit for subpoenaing, which is not covered by the arrangements for extending the time limits, new cases could in principle be opened on the basis of the abovementioned exceptions. However, by means of circulars, the bailiffs were instructed to postpone ordinary service of a subpoena or of a judgment during the period of seclusion, which means that no or no subpoenas can be served. If we read the circulars of the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs together with the Royal Decree, which makes it impossible to claim default, and cases can only be considered when both parties have exchanged decisions, it is de facto that the entire legal system in ordinary civil matters is completely blocked. In practice, the Royal Decree deprives the seeker of proper access to justice during this period of seclusion. Minister, that cannot be the intention. Next, I would like to talk about Royal Decree No. 3. Like Royal Decree No. 2 is Royal Decree No. 3 in practice is actually unnecessary. Criminal law specialists made it public in the Belgian Official Journal as early as the day after the publication of this royal decree that there was neither need nor need to elaborate additional measures in a separate and temporary royal decree. That's actually very telling. There is a public talk about a sunk cost fallacy: because there was a lot of time and effort in the royal decree, it had to be there. That's not my description, but that of a renowned professor and lawyer, a criminal justice specialist. There are already very clear guidelines for the courts and courts specifically aimed at this period of seclusion, and a letter was sent by the College of Attorneys General to the courts of appeal. A very detailed overview of the services provided within Justice is available, thus informing all actors within Justice in a correct and detailed manner and following clear instructions in practice. The Royal Decree therefore has no added value, given the various initiatives already taken from the ground up and working very well. However, the fact that the need for the Royal Decree is called into question by experts and that it could be wrongly decided that there really is little change in criminal proceedings and the execution of penalties does not mean that my group would be a fan of the contents of the Royal Decree and certainly not of the aspects of early release. We have three fundamental points to make. A great deal has already been needed in Belgium, Minister, to effectively end up in prison, partly in view of the fact that effective prison sentences of up to three years are not or hardly carried out. In practice, penalties over three years of age usually result in a person already eligible for early release after serving barely a third of the sentence. As if that were not enough, the new KB has now determined that the prison director will grant an early release from six months before the end of the sentence of the enforceable part of the custodial sentence, provided of course certain conditions are met. If the early release is not revoked, it runs until the end of the sentence. That means, in concrete terms, a six-month reduction in the amount of the custodial sentence that can be enforced. We have three fundamental objections to this, Minister. Firstly, this is de facto interference in the judgments of the courts and courts and thus a serious breach of the separation of powers. On what grounds do you give to some prisoners an automatic reduction of six months and not to others? Secondly, this is very wrong from the point of view of the principle of equality. I fear that you know that we in our country will have used some of them and will initiate proceedings concerning the violation of the principle of equality, because prisoners who are currently covered by the terms of the Royal Decree will be cut by six months by your decision, while other prisoners who are just outside the terms of the Royal Decree do not receive that favor. I leave it in the middle, but the corona crisis may justify the interruption of sentences for anyone who falls within the same conditions, but it can never justify an early release, because not all prisoners are subject to the same conditions. Minister, I repeat, a warned man is worth two. After today, you can no longer claim that you have not been warned. Thirdly, what strikes me most is that your decision is a particularly misplaced Easter gift for the prisoners involved and for the victims, especially with regard to the latter category, which already rightly feels that impunity reigns in this country. The penalties are often so light and are now being made even lighter. The second point was about the interruption of sentence. I would also like to say something about that. The Director of the Prison may decide, on the basis of the Royal Decree, to suspend the sentence of a number of categories of inmates, subject to compliance with a number of conditions. This is a collective measure, which therefore applies to everyone who fulfils the conditions. Of course, there must be no counter-indications that the prisoner will evade his sentence, commit serious acts and so on. While the government has been alerted for years, including by my group, that prison places are too short and that no structural solution has ever been created for that deficit, the prisoners are simply sent home today. Minister, we naturally understand the exceptional situation. We are also fully aware that not only the prisoners but also, and above all, the guards are in a very difficult situation. The prisoners do not get a visit, they no longer get their drugs, we have to admit that, and their freedom of movement is severely restricted. The result is that there is a lot of increasing aggression, stress and pressure on the guards. That is why we, even my group, understand the need for action. Nevertheless, we would like to press you and all your predecessors, especially your predecessors, once again with the nose on the facts. The facts are that there has been an overpopulation in prisons for a very long time, and that is far too long to do anything structural about it. Ladies and gentlemen, please let that be a wake-up call to increase efforts to resolve the shortage of capacity in the prison system. My third and final point is the lack of respect for the victims. What my group is most annoyed about, in addition to early release, is this lack of respect. The role of the victims is completely ignored in this Royal Decree. The victim must be informed of the granting of the penalty, as it says. That would still be wrong. Do the victims have rights, Minister? Can they resist this interruption or, as is the case all too often in this country, should they simply endure everything? Again, this KB remains the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence. I would be remiss to come back, as some people are doing along the way, to the debates that took place on what was, at the time, a draft decree of special powers in the Committee on Justice. I would just like to point out that our committee has a duty to monitor the framework within which special power orders are taken. At the same time, there is also the need, Minister, all the more obvious today, to ensure the continuity of the judiciary, in a difficult situation at all levels. I therefore welcome the fact that a great deal of work has been done urgently, that the decisions in question have been given a very well-documented opinion by the Council of State, which has allowed for a further adjustment of the orders which were published in the Monitor, if I am not mistaken, on 9 April. This is a good thing in terms of the continuity of the public service at the level of the judiciary. My questions will be ad hoc, short and specific. First of all, allow me to tell you, Minister, that my colleague Mathieu Bihet's question about the time limit for the submission of the finding deserves to be answered, even if it has been turned into a written question. We will therefore remain very attentive to the follow-up that will be given to him. Also in the discussion of the extension of time, Minister, one of my questions is the automatic use of deliberation without pleadings. The Council of State had recalled the necessary conformity that that provision should have with regard to the relevant international provisions, in particular article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Council of State had also specified that they could give rise to limitations, but that they could not restrict open access to the individual in such a way that the right was attained in its very substance. The assessment of these limitations must pursue a legitimate and proportionate purpose in relation to the intended purpose. It is on this proportionality which is therefore left to the judge, Mr.Minister, that I would like to question you. This has given rise to a few opinions not only at the level of the Supreme Council of Justice but also among lawyers. Could we, once again, support – this could be interesting for the writings of our work – on what basis will this proportionality left to the judge's assessment? It may be important to clarify this again. On the other hand, we understand the difficulty of prisons, especially in a situation like this. The measures recommended will have to be reviewed and monitored, as some colleagues suggest. It will also be necessary in the future for us to develop solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u41	Mr. Chair, Minister, we are pleased to see that action has been taken quickly in the interests of justice. I am thinking in particular of the Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 3, aimed at reducing prison congestion. This seems to us to be an essential first step, which could limit prison overcrowding. However, this only measure remains insufficient. Last Wednesday, in the Committee on Justice, I reiterated the urgent need to take the situation in prisons seriously, so that we can avoid the consequences of an epidemic in camera and ensure the safety of prison officers and detainees. I hope that, in the coming days, other important measures will be taken, such as the organisation of systematic screenings for workers and detainees, the adoption of a plan for the supply of sanitary equipment for each institution or the democratisation of the rates of telephone calls, soap, canteen or television, with a view to reducing prison tension. We are also in favour of a wider use of written procedure, rather than a referral of cases to the role. In order to do so, we believe that it is important to take sufficient account of the social realities of the presence of staff in this period of confinement and of the need to protect the interests of the weakest litigants. In the opinion of the committee meeting, the High Council of Justice stressed that "the circumstances we know must not make the situation of the people in need more fragile or more difficult". We agree with this view, as the right to an effective remedy constitutes a fundamental right guaranteed both by Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and by Articles 6 and 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, we need to find ways to make justice work. Similarly, contact between persons should be limited. However, citizens must be able to appeal to a judge, as problems continue to arise. Take the case of domestic violence. You can imagine that justice cannot go backwards in such situations. In view of the above, we have three observations to make on the special power orders referred to today. Firstly, we know from the actors on the ground that the written procedure poses many difficulties, which have also been noted by the Supreme Council of Justice. In particular, the generalization of the written procedure presents enormous difficulties in terms of equality of arms, since legal persons are not always represented by counsel. For example, disputes in social security or family law are usually characterized by the absence of a finding. As is well known, the various measures taken by the government in recent years have already made access to justice more expensive, resulting in a significant reduction in accessibility. Long before the crisis, I have asked you many times, Minister, about the law on legal aid that determines the livelihood limit. In concrete terms, we say that citizens below the poverty line are denied access to legal aid totally free of charge or partially free of charge because their livelihoods exceed the legal ceiling. We kept repeating that this ceiling was far too low. According to this criterion, 15.5 per cent of the Belgian population is already at risk of poverty. What about in times of crisis? Currently, economic unemployment is capped at 70 per cent, but in practice many workers find themselves with a replacement income of 60 per cent. Single-parent families, tenants, students are the most exposed. The measure proposed by the Government is in no way an effective solution if it is not accompanied by free access to justice for all vulnerable litigants, i.e. all those who find themselves in economic unemployment or those who suffer any loss of income as a result of this health crisis. At a minimum, we hope that the registry fees and VAT on the provision of lawyers will be simply cancelled over the next 12 months. Second, a widespread use of the written procedure requires that the registry teams be complete and operational. However, they are understaffed on a permanent and structural basis. For example, the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels has been operating painfully for years with only 80% of the workforce provided for in the legal framework. It is a shortage of 65 people who feel daily. Recently, we learned that as many as 400 workers in Belgian French- and Dutch-speaking registries and prosecutors feared for their employment. Indeed, it appears that these workers will soon be completing their fourth consecutive fixed-term contract in less than two years. The measures taken by Special Powers Orders Nos. 2 and 3 must take account of these realities. It is therefore imperative that these measures be accompanied by an ambitious recruitment plan, with CDIs for workers, if not perhaps inefficient. Finally, I add – but is it still necessary? – that no protective measures (gants or masks) are envisaged by the government for judicial personnel while the written procedure will still require human contacts. In conclusion, Minister, we call for the following complementary measures to be included to ensure the safety of prison officers and their families: full free access to justice for the most vulnerable litigants, the abolition of registry fees and VAT on the services of lawyers and the recruitment of sufficient staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I would just like to make a brief comment on Royal Decree No. 2. This royal decision was taken because they wanted the guarantee that the judiciary could function, without accidents afterwards and not to hypothesize all kinds of time limits contained in the Code of Justice or in criminal law. The first part of the Royal Decree contains a very linear measure, whereby a general postponement has been chosen. I have heard several colleagues criticize this because, in these times, where everyone adjusts their working methods, they try to do as much as they can. Just as our committees are now getting to know the videoconference, it is happening on many floors. I understand that this general postponement has been chosen, mainly because there are so many deadlines in judicial law, which makes it particularly difficult to work tailor-made. I understand that people are wondering why, for example, deadlines should be postponed. Lawyers can work perfectly from home or in the office without harassing anyone. It may have been far too difficult to determine this per term. I suspect that is why this scheme was chosen. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm that? I would like to ask a number of questions about the second part of that royal decree, which seeks to put the generalization of the written appearance first. That places a very great responsibility on the judges themselves. In cases where the parties do not discuss it, this is of course not a problem and it can be dealt with in writing, discussed and decided. What if one of the parties ends up in a discussion? I understand that we will then have a videoconferencing procedure so that we can have a discussion. However, that means a great deal of discretion for a magistrate. Can you clarify what will be involved in this? The measure then taken by the magistrate shall not be subject to appeal. The question is how magistrates will deal with that exactly. This will determine whether the period we are going through will ultimately lead to an increase in the delay in justice and that cases will no longer be considered. If one makes a broad interpretation of this, then justice can indeed function in the period we are experiencing. That is why I would like to ask the Minister what his sense of the matter is from the field of work. What communication does he get from magistrates who will or will not use the consultation? How much enthusiasm is there for this? I would like to encourage this as much as possible and hope that it will be used as much as possible. We all know that once conclusions have been reached, the argument is largely known. However, for people in ongoing proceedings, but who are not lucky enough to be able to hire a lawyer, it is all less clear how things work, what deadlines are being used, what judgment or judgment is being made on the basis of a written consultation of the case. What measures will be taken to inform the parties without a lawyer sufficiently about the measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u43	Mr President, I will not repeat a few of my fellow Members' points. I have a comment on KB No. 2 and the practical feasibility of the written procedure and the digital operation, handling it electronically. I would like to draw attention to a number of particular situations in which it seems difficult to me. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is providing alternatives to this. I would like to draw your attention to the collective debt regime, the disputes before the peace courts, the labour courts, the corporate courts, and certainly the disputes in the family courts, such as the conciliation procedure. As far as the latter is concerned, I am particularly concerned about the right to hear and to hear of people aged 12 or over. In what way can we organise this? I don't think we can do that inside the KB. Shouldn't we be looking for an alternative method soon? The second point is a suggestion. It is in line with what Mr Lachaert has just mentioned. Isn't it also the time to point out within the magistrate someone who can look at the new procedures that are smoother and successful? These findings can then be taken with you for the post-corona era. Perhaps certain procedures can lead to greater efficiency. Thirdly, the director can make a decision without the prisoner asking for it. I'd like to know your opinion on that? Finally, with regard to early release, I would have liked to know the number. Maybe my numbers aren't quite correct and you have more exact numbers, but there would be a thousand less inmates. On the basis of the rules known and communicated, one would think it should be less between 200 and 400 inmates. I would have liked to have had an analysis of you there. How do we get 1,000 inmates less?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u44	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this very quick work on a series of very important orders, which allow for the proper functioning and prosecution of the public service of justice, which is very essential. I have heard all the criticisms that could be made about justice, but I do not think this is the time. I prefer to focus on the decrees to which we have been able to contribute a great deal, despite the small regret over the lack of constructive collaboration after the Council of State's consultation, as it had existed during the drafting phase. As far as prisons are concerned, I will not comment, since we discussed them widely in the Committee on Justice last week. I will have a few questions following the advice of the Council of State. It recommends – and that is what you have taken as an option – to remove the principle of retroactivity. Since confinement is decided until 9 April, i.e. the time limit for taking orders, I wonder what rules will govern and whether we are faced with a delay problem? How are we going to deal with this situation? The second question I have to ask myself concerns certain deadlines which are suspended. The time limits for appeal and opposition, which are time limits favourable to litigants, are not. Why not extend these principles to time limits favourable to litigants? My third question has also been raised by another colleague and concerns in general the law of foreigners. You took that stuff out of the warrants. When will we have a text on this right of aliens and the time limits? This is also the subject of many criticisms and I would like to know the deadlines for a new order or bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your patience. I have a brief question on the second Royal Decree, in particular on the state of play in the discussion on the extension of the deadlines in the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes. So far it has not been eligible for the provisions on the extension of time limits. In the meantime, there is also the opinion of the Council of State, which recommends that the postponement of civil and administrative proceedings, which would also apply to the Council for Aliens' Disputes, be settled in two separate decisions. How's that going? Is there any further work to be done on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u46	Colleagues, everyone has been addressed. I'll make a suggestion for next time. This is the first time we have met and we must learn by doing so. You were summoned late, for which I apologize, because that is my responsibility. You have asked very many, very interesting and very interesting questions. It seems to me that it would be much easier for the Cabinets if some of these questions could be delivered in writing in advance, so that we can pass them on to the Cabinets. That does not prevent anyone from asking further oral questions before the sitting. That makes the work easy for everyone and perhaps refines the debate. Mr Minister, I have seen you and your cabinet members do preparatory work while you are listening to the questions, so I am sure you will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Power of Power Act is due to expire on 27 March 2020. These royal decrees were published in the Belgian Official Journal on 6 April and 9 April. So we rushed it. If my grandchildren, who are unfortunately still too small, had asked me if Belgian democracy was working, I would say, "That is not so bad." That is not so bad because I have seen my staff meeting and thinking about these power of attorney decisions over the last two weeks, days and sometimes even a little longer than a day. That is then concluded with a few 'beautiful Saturday mornings' and finally with a meeting on a Tuesday evening in Parliament. If we want to say tomorrow in the newspaper that our democracy is a farce, if we want to say tomorrow in the newspaper that our democracy is not working and that the social media are taking over the business, then I would like to tell you: do it after what we have done in that short time. I'm not the one who did that. A previous colleague has said that if you do not throw yourself flowers, no one will do it. It is not my intention to give myself flowers, but for each of those four royal decrees two employees draw responsible. They have been working on this full-time throughout that period, in an area that is contradictory. I mean not just politics, but the whole field of law, of the judiciary and of all the other legal bodies and advisory bodies. I also mean your Parliament. It is a work of choice that requires a lot of love. That's what I want to highlight tonight. It is very good to criticize, and I thank you for that, because you are very generous towards us. However, I would like to ask you to say in the public world – which today is only criticizing the political world in all respects – that we are carrying out an exercise of democracy. It is true that we have decree-laws or decree-laws. Nevertheless, your control may be a posteriori, it is possible. We're trying to answer you. We have responded to the ten parties that form the national union, to the government parties, to all the opinions that have been given to us – perhaps by exceeding the deadlines, perhaps with answers that were not desired. We tried to do the best we could, because the situation was urgent. And they say, "You don't do anything. You're too late and, at the same time, you're doing too much. And you shouldn't have done this because we would have done it ourselves." We must try to find this balance in the legal world, and it is not easy to find but we have tried to do so. I know it's late, so I'm going to be brief, but I'm going to answer quite precisely – otherwise you'll say I'm not answering. But I will be brief, so that we can all say this evening that we have worked well for the democracy that is ours, in the difficult and complicated circumstances that are ours, and with all the understandings for those who have to work in more difficult conditions, than those that are mine and yours. Without saying it, you understand who I want to thank in this way. I think Mrs Thibaut's first question was. It is true, Mrs Thibaut, that your question concerned – I believe – the fact that we have replaced prison leave with an interruption of sentence. We first did so as a concept, because the government managed to reach agreement on the matter only in the event of an interruption of sentences. Prison leave and prison leave did not include prison sentences and days of imprisonment. The Council of State informed us that this was not a prison leave, that it was a misdefinition of the concept, and we called it an interruption of sentence. Why? Because at the health level, an overpopulation is not very productive in relation to a pandemic – everyone will easily understand it. It was therefore necessary to try to reduce the population. Mr Crombez asked the question. Today we have 9,700 prisoners, 400 of whom are suspended, 96 in early release, and there are many more who wear ankle bracelets. As with the strike in 2016, in a very short time, we were able to reduce the population by 700 people. That is why we have called this 'uninterruption de peine', Mrs Thibaut. We called it an interruption of sentence, Mrs Thibaut. However, the inmate can always refuse this interruption, he cannot be forced to accept it. In addition, the director must always make a decision on a case-by-case basis and many categories of prisoners are excluded, for example those with more than 10 years of sentence. I do not know if Mrs De Wit is still present. With regard to the observation made by the Council of State that the King cannot extend a power of attorney decision: that may be true, but the Council of State itself has proposed, concerning its own procedure, a text which provides for an extension of the time limit of the measure by the King. The Council of State has therefore followed us in our error, in Latin the mayor of Antwerp who thus expressed:error communisfaci jus, a common mistake would be right. With regard to this administrative procedure, the Council of State, in its opinion on Royal Decree No. 2, requested the drafting of a special royal decree on administrative procedure before the Council of State and all other administrative procedures, including the Council for Aliens. The Government has seized the text offered by the Council of State, which provides for a procedure and an extension of time limits before the Council of State and the administrative authorities. This text will probably be presented to party presidents next Saturday and there will probably be a separate procedure for the Foreigners' Council. You should be aware that all these measures have been taken only for the duration of the corona crisis. We do not need to prolong them, even if the corona crisis lasts longer. For example, if we say on 3 May: it is no longer necessary, although the corona crisis lasts longer, then we will stop the measures. In any event, you know that, in principle, these power of attorney decisions will only take three to six months after they have been authorised by Parliament. You are very attached to parliamentary control. For your control, you should make sure that the Council of State has given us the opportunity to take proxy decisions that last longer than the six-month period. That is not in the law, but the Council of State has said: it may be that the corona crisis has such structural effects that it may be necessary to take longer measures. However, as far as my decisions are concerned, and those of Mr De Crem, you will see that the limit is expressed everywhere either in a concrete date or in the end of the corona crisis. The penalties that are interrupted will automatically be re-implemented on the date the corona crisis ends. Then the prisoner has to go back to prison. Until such time, his conditions will be policed and controlled by the parquet. In these circumstances, it seems to me that the short sentences, which are not included in the Royal Decree, have been suspended for certain very minor offences. That's not impunity. Those penalties have not been waived, we could not, but they have only been suspended until further notice, until we can proceed to normal sanitary conditions. I believe, moreover, that last week I answered in detail in committee all the questions on the health situation in our prisons. Mr Aouasti, concerning your questions and your insistence on computerisation, you will have to agree with me that computerisation in Parliament has never been more active than at present. We realize that the legislator and your power have, in this matter, thirty kilometers ahead of the judiciary. Let's stay serious. It is natural that we take advantage of time like these to ensure that computerization advances because the Webex system that we use twice a day with the Prime Minister, the magistrates also use it. It is perfectly available from justice, with a firewall that secures communication. He was already available. It is now better used. The orality of the debates is holy, as here. I'm glad you're here so I can confront you, but at the same time, writing is not forbidden. There are written questions that are answered and that are sometimes better rated in the press than oral questions. The written procedure is not sacrosanct. There have been a lot of questions about this, but it must be noted that we have made the judge sovereign on this aspect. It is he who decides, together with the parties, what he will do about the written or oral nature of the proceedings. As the Council of State pointed out – and at the same time I would have answered Mr. Pivin's question, if he had been there, and Mrs. Jadin's question on proportionality – I quote: "As soon as it is impossible for the project in these circumstances to envisage general rules and personnel that would apply uniform solutions by type of litigation or by type of factual situation, it is legitimate for him to have entrusted this choice to the judge himself who is best placed to take account of the specifics of each case and the concrete possibilities available in the buildings hosting his jurisdiction and the transport possibilities for the parties concerned to access it, for which he will assess, independently and impartially, what is the best possible formula. On this occasion, it will be required to respect the principles of relevance and proportionality, as well as the requirements of a fair trial, which are assessed on a case-by-case basis. So all the King has done in this case, together with the government and the Kern +10, is to give the judge the power to make a sovereign, proportional and fair assessment with respect for the demands of such a trial, and to make sure that he makes the choice, with the parties, of a written procedure or a delay at a fixed time, indefinite postponement, video conferencing,... He receives complete freedom but with a lot of understanding. What have we done? In criminal matters, we have not suspended or extended the time limits because criminal law is a matter of public order. The whole correctional system of all criminal justices, all prosecutors and all criminal execution judges, insisted that the time limits would simply continue. It plays in both directions. Time lines run as fast for the prosecution as for the suspect. It is true that we have suspended the statute of limitations. It's not an interruption, it's a suspension, civil and criminal. In the present case, this is fair, because the police and the prosecution cannot use the same means of proof as in normal times. For example, a search is still less normal now than in normal times. Let's be honest. These are the reasons why we dared to suspend the prescription. But the rights of the defence vis-à-vis the personal appearance are intact. Anyone who wants to appear personally can of course. But when he finds that this is not necessary, for example when he has to appear before the board, he will not necessarily do so. Videoconferencing may be used from the prison, with the judge in chambers of counsel, and the lawyer. But let's take the example of the indictment chamber. The additional investigation is the only means of exception that allows for a waiver of personal appearance without the suspect necessarily agreeing. There is only one exception, which seemed reasonable and proportionate for all the criminalists involved, given the circumstances we are currently experiencing. I therefore believe that I have answered most of Mr Aouasti's questions. I also replied to Mr Van Langenhove's question on the written procedure, which is certainly not the only one. Mr Lachaert, like you, is also concerned that we have opted for a unique extension of the procedure. Mr Lachaert was right to say: 'There are so many deadlines in private law that you had no choice but to do it that way'. I think you are right in that regard, Mr Lachaert. There are numerous deadlines, not only the time limits for conclusion, but also the time limits for appeals, the time limits for claims... all possible deadlines are covered by this extension. But urgent cases can always be revoked by the judge. That's clearly in the KB. The parties can always meet with the judge to continue to work on the normal rhythm and follow the own calendar of the case. In family law, the rights of the minor are sacred, as Mr Crombez has asked. That's very clear. That has been underlined by the Council of State and is beyond doubt. That's public order. The same rules apply to those who haven't taken a lawyer. I think they will generally be in his favour, because the deadlines will be extended. Without having to submit his conclusions, he may enjoy the oral procedure at the appropriate time. There's no doubt about that. There will undoubtedly remain questions to which I have not replied. As far as judicial appointments and temporary judicial staff are concerned, what is called in law, in our entirely English-speaking jargon, cash flow, we will obviously extend them to the extent possible. We are not going to make them open-ended contracts as you requested. We're not here. But we're going to extend them. Colleges are asking for it and we fully understand it. As far as employment vacancies are concerned, as I said last week, we continue with the plans. Job vacancies continue to be published. The Supreme Council of Justice continues to work on this. I even insisted – I hope not too fanatically – that the examinations of those who want to join the judiciary take place. They normally take place twice a year, before and after the judicial holidays. The first time, before the judicial holidays. It will certainly be complicated, but I want to say that in four months' time, when there is another Minister of Justice, there is no saying that there are a lot of vacancies because the previous minister did not do what was necessary. We are trying to maintain the pace of recruitment, job vacancies and examinations as far as possible, precisely in the context of the continuity of the public service and, somewhere, of the judiciary. For the pro deo, I believe that a bill has been introduced in Parliament. It is defended by many democratic parties. I believe that she has already received the opinion of the Council of State. On the protection of prison officers: what can be done better than asking prison officers and inmates to make masks together to protect each other? I'm touching wood, because I hope the health situation will remain under control in prisons. It is a challenge, as in nursing homes and shelters for disabled people, even if the situation is quite different. Mrs Matz, we could not opt for retroactive proceedings, nor for retroactive application of Royal Decree No. 2. Suppose, for example, that a statute of limitations had taken place just before the publication of the said order or that an appeal period would have expired also before that publication: retroactivity would have constituted, in those circumstances – everyone doubts – an injustice that no one would have endured, in any case not the one who would have benefited from one of these provisions. Mr President, I have tried to answer most of the questions. If I have not succeeded, it is because of myself and my chaos but not the order of my associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u48	Mr Minister, may I thank you and your staff for the very detailed answer that was prepared and expressed at the banks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u49	Mr President, as the minister pointed out earlier, when things are good, we must also say that we must have the courage to say it. That's what my grandfather also thought, who lived until the age of 95. I would therefore simply like to thank the minister for the effort he has made in responding as fully as possible, although some answers may be unsatisfactory at the moment. If I believe what we want as parliamentarians – that is, ministers present who come to explain and thus enable us to work in good intelligence to go through this particularly difficult period – I see a great contrast between the first and second speakers of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I hope you will also pay due attention to the situation of the victims. With regard to the staff, I shall be very brief and none of the colleagues present, I have any doubt that your staff and you, too, are working twice as hard in these times of crisis. The same goes for our employees. We get that communication, these royal decisions are all quite close together and our employees are also very hard at work. They will also be watching tonight in order to be able to ask new questions on the basis of this reply. Everyone is working hard at the moment, and that is also our duty as representatives of the people. Finally, I am going to put forward a number of specific technical written questions following your comprehensive answer, but these are outside the scope of this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u51	Minister, I have no doubt for a second that we are working hard at the department to do the best we can. I'm not questioning him. You will still grant me that we are trying to be constructive. The criticisms we are making are aimed at improving the proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u52	That's why I'm saying it. That's democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u53	We're doing the best we can. I can understand that some interventions may upset you, but the majority of parliamentarians have a constructive objective. I listened carefully to your responses to the launch of the judicial examinations. For my part, I was talking more about transplants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u54	It is the temporary workers who work for the transplants and we will extend their contract. Indeterminate contracts do not yet exist in the Judicial Code. They are either statutory or fixed-term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u55	That was the meaning of my question, thank you. With regard to legal aid, you have referred to the current bill. Why not use it to make a royal decree of special powers to speed up the procedure in order to help people who will be in need because of a loss of wages? This would give them access to justice. You could draw inspiration from this bill in the upcoming royal decrees. However, I am concerned about the conformity of masks made by prisoners. Are there all the elements that make it possible to ascertain this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u56	Mr Minister, thank you for the answers given and I agree with the proposal made by Mr Verherstraeten, chairman of the sitting. Indeed, just a year ago, I was in the place of one of your collaborators in another entity and I know the difficulty that they may have in having to improvise on-line answers to the many parliamentary questions to slip them, without the appearance of anything, to the minister so that he can answer. If, for future committees, there is a reference address or a contact, I would be happy to send them in advance so that we can have answers. I also hear, and this reassures us all, the qualifier "holy" that you have given both to the orality of the debates and to the question of personal appearance. Knowing your taste for the sacred, minister, I feel reassured. Finally, there may be one question that I did not get an answer to, but I am not mad at you. It concerned the last Special Powers Order No. 4 and the extension of the possibilities of videoconferencing to associations and foundations. If you do not have the answer, could you send it to me in writing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u57	Mr Aouasti, it was not deliberately that I forgot to answer this question. The area of co-ownership of apartments and buildings is quite different from that of associations. Although both are described as general assemblies, because collective decisions are taken, it is clear that they are quite different in nature: one is property law, the other is association law. These are very different environments and they concern almost professionals, in any case very involved volunteers and, on the other hand, citizens who by chance are co-owners, if any, with a trustee. That is why these two things have been dealt with in a completely different way, but, I believe, with the consent of both sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the difference. Maybe I didn't speak well. In that case, please excuse me. There is the issue of co-ownership, which is a specific sector. Today, there is the Code of Companies and Associations, which also provides for the possibility for administrative bodies via video conferencing, for the specific social forms which, to my knowledge, are SCs, SRLs and SAs. In so doing, since we are extending the framework for co-ownership, which is a specific form and this framework exists, subject to statutory derogation, for certain social forms, could we not have a reflection on its extension to other social forms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-14-55-commissie-ic145x.u59	I wish to thank all of you, the Minister and his cabinet and the services that organized it in a very short time. We shall see each other again next week for the discussion of proxy decisions Nos. 5 and 6. May I repeat the suggestion that prior written questions should be put to the Chamber so that they can be submitted to the Cabinet? Makes the job a little easier for everyone.
