ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to speak about the Hainaut Loop, a very high-voltage air link. As you know, it connects the posts of Avelgem and Courcelles. As such, I would like to convey to you the legitimate concerns of the residents with regard to this project and to invite you to be transparent. After more than two years of study and research, Elia proposed a corridor with a length of more than 84 kilometers and a width of 200 meters, crossing 14 communes on the territory of Wallonia: Mont-de-L'Enclus, Celles, Frasnes-Lez-Anvaing, Leuze-en-Hainaut, Ath, Chièvres, Brugelette, Lens, Soignies, Braine-le-Comte, Écaussiennes, Seneffe, Pont-à-Celles and Courcelles. Madam Minister, could you tell us when Elia informed the municipal administrations of each municipality concerned of the passage of the high voltage line on her territory? What was their respective position? Could you give us details and provide us with all the routes that have been envisaged? Indeed, the video and Elia's basic and cartographic file do not provide this information. Then, could you tell us what the routes proposed for each municipality concerned were and when the meetings were held for that purpose? What answers did each of them provide? In his presentations, Elia mentioned that modifications were possible, but only in the 200-metre corridor. Do you confirm this information? Finally, I would like to appeal to you, because the federal government's responsibility also involves environmental health. Fourteen communes – so many citizens – being crossed by the route of the Hainaut Loop, could you commission an independent scientific study on the health effects of exposure to low frequency electromagnetic fields? The purpose of this study would be to identify or dispel potential risks to the health of children and adults as well as to animals living near a line of such tension.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 22 September last I asked your predecessor about a matter which has already caused a lot of ink to flow, particularly in the boring province of Hainaut. As a reminder, Elia wants to implement a new high-voltage line across the province of Hainaut. This 380 kV line would link Avelgem and Courcelles. It is no secret to anyone: I am opposed to this project. I do not want to go back to the economic and energy interests of this project, but to the social, territorial, agricultural, health, biodiversity and heritage consequences it could have. Moreover, the press told us a few days ago that the impact on real estate is already felt, even though it is only a project. With regard to the formal procedure, the notice period ended on Monday, 2 November. All letters and remarks should be taken into account in drafting the specifications. An independent study office, approved by the Walloon Region, must produce an environmental impact report. This report should be followed by a 45-day public inquiry, which should enable citizens and local authorities to give their opinion on the possible draft revision of sector plans. Minister, what contacts do you have with Elia on this important issue? What about the municipalities crossed by the project? Do you have any contact with the municipal authorities? Is there any consultation with the Walloon Region? It seems essential to me that there should also be a discussion with the Walloon authorities. Do you have any information about the independent study commissioned by the Walloon government? Can you tell us what the next steps and objectives Elia has set for herself in this area? Madam Minister, since I myself am a Portuguese citizen, and therefore live in a commune crossed by this probable very high-voltage line, I ask you to be extremely vigilant on this issue and to measure the real gain in terms of the extreme nuisances that will be caused to tens of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, in the Hainaut, there are many protests against the current design of the project of the Loop du Hainaut, namely the high-voltage line between Avelgem and Courcelles. Action committees complain about the blatant lack of transparency and the absence of binding environmental standards for protection against magnetic fields and other electromagnetic radiation. Under pressure from the action committees, the Walloon government was forced to appoint an "independent" expert – the said expert seems to be working for the multinational energy companies that make the lobby. So he's not as independent as we might suggest. Minister, as Federal Minister of Energy, how are you involved in the Hainaut Loop project? What powers do you have in this project? In your opinion, what are the conditions that this project should meet? What legislation and/or regulation applies to environmental standards for magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation in these transmission projects? What is the federal government's position on the Hainaut Loop? Some action committees question the legitimacy of this line and argue that it is not necessary. [[In your opinion, is it necessary or not?]] On what information is your answer based?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u4	Madam and gentlemen, I thank you first of all for your questions. I would also like to say that I will remain vigilant about this issue, which raises a lot of concerns and comments, but it is also a project that is part of a political vision not only at the federal level but also at the regional level. Before I dive into my answers that are more concrete, I want to tell you that you can count on me. You will certainly continue to ask me questions about this, but I will remain vigilant. I will also try to analyse the file in all its aspects. I have heard, Mr. Prévot, your firm position on this issue, but there are nevertheless different angles in it. First of all, it is useful to point out that these different issues are more relevant at the local and regional levels, in close connection with the competences of spatial planning and the environment. The project Ligue du Hainaut consists of the construction of a 380 kV electric overhead line with an alternating current of 6 GW between the posts of Avelgem in Flanders and Courcelles in Wallonia. The 380 kV power grid is the backbone of the Belgian power grid. The project of the Ligue du Hainaut aims to strengthen and complement this network. It is therefore a main electricity transport infrastructure project. The project led by Elia is part of the energy transition and aims to meet four needs: to ensure competitive and affordable access to electricity; to increase the capacity of all renewable energy sources; to support Wallonia's economic attractiveness; and to make electricity supply reliable for consumers. Two major administrative steps are required to complete the project: an application for a revision of the sector plans to include a main energy transport infrastructure and an application for a town planning permit which will determine precisely where the infrastructure will be built. In its communication on the project Ligue du Hainaut, Elia indicated that she had started some reflections in 2018 and 2019. Contacts were thus made with local authorities possibly concerned from May 2019, in order to take into account local and territorial constraints, as well as with an accompanying group composed, for example, of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia, the inter-municipal development (IDEA and IDETA), agricultural unions (Fédération Wallonne de l'Agriculture, FUGEA, Inter-Environnement Wallonia, etc.). These steps, prior to the formal application procedure for the revision of the sector plan, as started in September 2020, were intended to indicate the need for a project and the procedure to be followed, as well as to collect certain information before being able to build and submit the basic dossier. The basic dossier was sent to the municipal authorities (Communal Council and CCATM) on 2 September 2020 and includes in particular the proposal for a 200 metre corridor and the alternatives studied by Elia. On 24 and 25 September, Elia officially presented the project via a video. The public opinion period for residents ended on 12 October 2020 and, for the municipal authorities, on 2 November 2020. This is the first step in a lengthy process of amending sector plans to include a reservation area to accommodate a main electricity transmission infrastructure. The next step in this process is the formal filing of the basic dossier with the Walloon government, accompanied by opinions, suggestions and alternative proposals from local residents and municipal authorities. All the information collected should be used as a basis for the environmental impact report to study Elia's application in depth. The Environmental Impact Report is entrusted to an independent body designated by the Walloon Region. There is a need to focus on the work to be done in the follow-up to the procedure and the possibilities offered to explore all the alternatives proposed and the issues raised in the first phase of the opinion. The many reactions and questions have caught my attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u5	Madam Minister, I would ask you to speak a little slower, because the interpreters can hardly follow. Don't let it dampen your enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u6	Elia received more than 22,000 letters from local residents, as well as the advice of the communal councils and the CCATMs. This is a very important phase and I will be particularly vigilant and attentive to the in-depth analysis of the reactions of the public and the municipal authorities and to the replies to be given in the report on government implications. In view of the detailed questions, the Walloon Government is fully competent in this matter. Mr Warmoes, your question has been written in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u7	Yes, as you wish, Madam Secretary. I translated it myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u8	All right. I'll also try to do it. It is important to draw attention to the climate ambitions reflected in the government agreement and the important role played by this power link in the development of offshore wind production in the North Sea. Timing is indeed important, while of course ensuring citizen participation and detailed analysis of the various issues and concerns raised at the level of environmental impacts during regional licensing processes. At the level of the state of the art, the acute effects that can occur when exposed to extremely high magnetic fields are well known and controlled. These acute effects form the basis of current European regulations, which provide a 100 μT exposure limit for the population. However, for long-term exposures to low-intensity magnetic fields, which is the case for the transmission of electricity, it has much more uncertainty. Some countries, such as the Netherlands and Italy, and regions, have developed national or regional policies on the subject. The strictest set a guide value of 0.4 μT for permanent exposures. Where this reference value cannot be reached, a limit value shall then be set. At home, only Flanders has a similar framework. The guide value is also 0.4 μT. However, this value does not directly apply to managers of electromagnetic field-emitting facilities, but is applied, among other standards, to determine the quality of the indoor environment within a home. The Regions are in fact competent for the regulation of electromagnetic fields, if the aim is to set an emission standard to protect the environment, which includes the protection of human beings and their health. And for your last question, as mentioned above, the latest version of the federal plan for the development of the electricity transmission network, for the period 2020-2030, recognizes the project of the new link Loop du Hainaut as an important and indispensable 380 kV corridor. As I have already said in response to your colleagues, it is a matter of ensuring competitive access for businesses and affordable access for households to electricity, of increasing the capacity for all renewable energies on land and at sea from Belgium and abroad, of supporting the economic development of Wallonia and more specifically of Hainaut, where the current 150 kV network reaches saturation, and of ensuring the reliability of electricity supply for consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u9	Madam Minister, you answer me, but half. Indeed, I asked you exactly what the positions of the communes were. You tell me that a contact has already been made by Elia with the municipalities from May 2019. But what I was asking you was to know what the reaction of the authorities was from that moment on. At the very least, you have to be transparent and Elia has to be transparent too. I can therefore perhaps ask you to communicate to me in writing the reactions of the various municipalities, from May 2019, until the more recent procedure that you have recalled, from September 2020. Secondly, you are the Minister of Energy, but you are not just responsible for energy. You also have a comprehensive responsibility within government, including a share of environmental health. I think that, in your capacity as minister, your role today seems primarily to be Elia's spokesperson. But your responsibility and your role is not just to be Elias' spokesperson. So I really encourage you to look at the suggestion that I made, namely, to carry out an independent study with a precise analysis on the basis of the project as proposed today. What about landfills? What about the project and its route? It is really about having a precise analysis of the impact on health and environmental health for children, adults, and on agriculture. Thank you for paying attention to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u10	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her snapshot of the situation. Indeed, I have been following this file for many months. Very modestly, I think I have a rather bright overview of this one. I do not have to reply to Mrs Fonck, but I can already point out to her that in Soignies and in many municipalities we have opposed this project from the outset. Three motions had been voted unanimously in the municipal council of Senegal, and that was the case for many other communes crossed. Others have sometimes taken more Gouchoutist positions, but I don't think I'm wrong in saying that the 14 municipalities are all opposed to this issue today. Minister, I am tempted to tell you not to be fooled by Elia's argument. Elia started selling this project to us by making us fear a problem of electricity supply. But today, this electric highway – the Grosse Bertha – is not yet fully justified and Elia has not yet managed to demonstrate the real public interest of this line. There is much to bet – and I am in constant contact with people who are much more specialized than I am in this matter – that this electric highway will mainly allow to transport electricity between France and Germany, for example, and this transit will allow Elia to generate great profits. We have been tried to pack up the matter by telling us that it was going to be used mainly for the transit of electricity via offshore wind, but today, one thing is certain, Elia has not yet managed to demonstrate the interest of this electric highway at 380 kV for the Belgian public interest. I therefore ask you to remain vigilant with regard to this project. Other actions are being carried out by my party at other levels, including those of the Region and the municipalities. On the communal level, as I said to you, in Soignies as elsewhere, there is a holy union between all political parties: the opposition is very clearly against this project as it is presented by Elia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u11	Minister, I take note of your comments. You said that the Walloon government was fully responsible and that everyone would have a role to play. Thank you for confirming that you will remain vigilant on this matter. As you know, the PTB Group fully supports the ecological transition. You said that this liaison was important and indispensable, but for us we need to consider this point further. We believe that the ecological transition should not be at the expense of the citizen but with the citizen. This project will therefore have to be acceptable to him, in particular to the local residents concerned. I understand you're sharing this vision of things. This is likely to require independent arbitration. We believe that the independence of the expert appointed by the Walloon government raises a question, and we see this as a slap in the face of people on the ground, who do not see it with a good eye. On the other hand, the fact that there are so many protests shows that we can compel the Walloon government to assume its responsibilities and appoint an expert, and we hope that the voice of the residents will be heard on this issue. Thank you for the various regulations you have listed and for the threshold values provided as documentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the European Transport and Environment (T&E) organisation, tests carried out on the latest models show that hybrid vehicles pollute much more than car manufacturers claim. In real-life testing, CO2 emissions from three of the most popular models in 2020 exceeded what had been announced. With an empty battery, these cars emitted three to eight times more CO2 than official values. In addition, when driving in battery charging mode, which could become more common since drivers use it before switching to electric mode in low-emission areas, the figures were three to twelve times higher. According to T&E, once the battery is flat, the three plug-in hybrid vehicles can only travel 11-23 kilometres in thermal mode before exceeding their official CO2 emission levels per kilometre. It turns out that hybrid vehicles need to be loaded much more often than electric battery cars, which are capable of driving some 300 kilometres with a single charge. In 2018, the WLTP protocol was amended, as was a new procedure to measure fuel consumption, as well as CO2 and regulated pollutant emissions from light-duty vehicles under standard laboratory conditions. Minister, have you been aware of the results of these tests? If so, what position do they inspire you? Do you intend to take action against manufacturers in default? If so, could this result in the government suspending or further conditioning the purchase reductions and tax deductibility associated with these vehicles? In your opinion, does the WTLP protocol need to be changed again to allow for more realistic measurements? Should not the conditions of these tests be reviewed? At the end of 2016, Minister Peeters stated that, in consultation with FEBIAC and TRAXIO, a code of conduct would come into force with a view to improving the quality of consumer information. What is the status of this code of conduct? Is it effective? Is it generally well respected? Are you considering reconsulting the sector on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u13	Mr President, Mr Bombled, your question is very interesting, but it falls within the competence of Mr Gilkinet, Minister for Mobility, Mr Dermagne, Minister for the Economy and Mrs De Bleeker, Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. My colleagues tried in vain to contact you this morning to let you know that, as they were not competent to answer your question as Minister of Energy, they were doing everything they could to transfer your question to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answer. But now you're sending me back to your colleague Gilkinet twice! It is true that a question relating to a vehicle falls within the competence of the Minister for Mobility, but when it comes to hybrid vehicles, it seems to me that as Minister for Energy you are also concerned, unless I have understood nothing about the operation of the various ministers. In any event, it seemed to me quite opportune to ask you my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u15	I ask you to excuse the lack of clarity. I am well aware that this is the second time that I have referred you to my colleague, which is why I asked my colleagues this morning to warn you of the situation, but unfortunately they have not been able to reach you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u16	In the government's bosom, you should see who answers to what questions. Otherwise there will be a constant misconception in the committee, this committee or any other about the powers of one or the other. That may need to be looked at. Soon it will all be a bit quieter and my advice to the government is to put this back together. If the parliamentary committees are wrong, this is a waste of time and a waste of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u17	Mr President, I think that in my question the main issue is not mobility. These are the CO2 standards. So the subject still concerns energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u18	Mr Gilkinet will answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u19	Whether it's energy or the environment!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u20	I hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u21	From now on, I'll ask three people the questions. Maybe I'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I have already addressed this question to you during the debate on your policy statement. After all, the question is whether the new gas plants that are coming are already carbon capture ready today. We know that two of these possible power stations already have a federal production licence, those in Dilsen-Stokkem and those in Manage. In accordance with the KB, an overview of carbon capture should be provided when submitting the application for such a permit. This concerns, inter alia, the availability of storage sites, the technical and economic feasibility of CO2 transmission networks and the technical and economic feasibility of adapting the installation with a view to collecting CO2. This means that data are available on the technical and economic feasibility of this carbon capture. My question, of course, is: can you provide information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u23	Mr Wollants, you are indeed referring to Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 11 October 2000. It is a royal decision that is now 20 years old and it concerns the granting of the production licence. That Article 4 provides that for a combustion plant with a net developmental capacity equal to or above 300 megawatts, the applicant shall provide an assessment of the availability of the storage sites suitable for CO2, the technical and economic feasibility of the CO2 transport networks and the technical and economic feasibility of an adaptation of the installation for the purpose of collecting CO2. It is therefore a question of the obligation to carry out an evaluation and not an obligation to provide installations for the capture of CO2. The last files of which the power exceeds 300 megawatts are only STEGS. The latest CPEG technology is the H-class of the size range between 875 megawatts and 920 megawatts. I cannot share those detailed analyses, which I receive in the context of the production licences, because of the confidential aspects in the files. However, I can provide some aggregated data of a technical and economic nature. Technically, when a permit is submitted to me, it appears that the information contained in it is mainly information which uses the literature on those matters. This shows that the technology exists to capture, store or convert CO2 into other chemicals. This also shows that the infrastructure needs to be developed, that the capture is technically feasible and that there are already CO2 absorbers that extract up to 90% CO2 from a high concentration of gas flow. If such capturing installations are to be added, space shall be provided in the design for additional equipment and pipes. For the transport of CO2 it is noted that today there is only a very limited possibility for the transport of CO2 and the associated storage. You know, however, that we have talked about this in the context of the discussion of the policy paper "The Federal Government wants to look at the development of transport infrastructure for CO2 in Belgium." Also on the economic aspects, assumptions are made in the file based on existing literature on the cost of capturing transport and capturing storage. This shows that the cost could be between EUR 125 and 181 per tonne of CO2 stored. If this were to be included in the electricity price for the recent CEEC files, i.e. with a capacity of around 900 megawatts, this would result in an additional cost of around 40 to 60 euros per megawatt hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u24	Madam Minister, I had already drawn up some technical data myself. However, one of the problems that could arise is that providing carbon capture also affects the power of a power plant or at least the power available for electricity production. This means that, if there are power stations that want to use carbon capture, this will have an impact on the possible devaluation under the CRM. However, this could also have an impact on the price limits to be provided for. Then the question will be what choices are made. For one of the two plants I mentioned, the other has not yet, in my opinion, an environmental permit or its equivalent in Wallonia is, if I am not mistaken, an environmental condition requiring it to achieve at least 30% carbon capture, although I know that the operator is considering whether all the steps have been taken to challenge that decision. The direction it takes will therefore become a difficult issue in the context of the CRM dossier: one chooses carbon capture and thus to remove CO2 emissions from the gas plants, or one chooses not to do so? Both have advantages and disadvantages, but the cost is still a driver in this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u25	Madam Minister, during the course of 2018, several questions were asked in Parliament about the procedure for the appointment of a new chairman of our energy regulator's Management Committee. You can still find on Selor's website that it was possible to apply until 19 September 2018. In that procedure, Selor selected three candidates. Then nothing happened for a long time, until September 2019. De Tijd wrote that "Minister Marghem invited the three remaining candidates to her cabinet on 30 September." According to the article, the Minister also confirmed that the talks had taken place. I am also told that the Minister did not have those talks on her own. The administration was also represented to ensure continuity in your cabinet, I suppose. In other words, the procedure was not stopped during that period. One can, of course, think about whether a minister in current affairs could do that appointment, which is of course important. That is probably why nothing happened after the fact of the matter in September. You are here now and you have full authority. Of course, the question now comes back to the table. As far as I can see, the Selor procedure seems to have been conducted correctly and given rise to a certain selection. For reasons of legal certainty, it is of course important that the next step, the appointment, can also be done correctly. There is, moreover, a similar need for the members of the Management Committee. It should have been reassembled a year ago. I suspect that the two procedures are related. Madam Secretary, what is the state of affairs regarding the appointment of the Chairman of the Management Committee? What information have you been able to obtain from your predecessor? What further steps will you take in the file? When can we expect a decision on this? In what way do you wish to recompose the Management Committee, I mean to tackle the remaining three members of the Management Committee and according to what timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u26	Madam Secretary, last week the CREG was a guest. The discussion of the policy paper and the budget took about six hours. It was a very constructive interview, including on the costs of the CRM. Of course, I did not dare to ask the following question at that time. Colleague Wollants has already outlined the situation: on 30 September 2019 an article suddenly appeared in De Tijd, about which we have heard nothing more afterwards, although it has to be said that the government was in ongoing business. Could you give me an update on the file? What progress has been made with the new membership of the Management Committee and the Chair of the CREG?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have checked it twice and my administration was not involved in this procedure. So she was not involved in the whole procedure that led to the interviews, nor in the interviews of the candidates themselves. An external partner has been called upon to do so. I have requested the file through the administration of civil servants and I have received it, but it is not complete. After all, there have been effective interviews with the candidates, but I have not had any impact on them. At the moment, I can only conclude that my file is incomplete and therefore I do not have enough information to make a state of the art. I'm working on completing the file and then I can map out the possibilities. You will understand that in the light of the above, I cannot answer your questions more specifically. I would like to add two more points. Firstly, the CREG Management Committee is, in principle, out of time, a situation that is not desirable, as we all want a powerful regulator. It is therefore important that we can proceed with the appointment of a Management Committee and a Chairman with an ongoing term. Legally, however, this has no impact whatsoever on the work they do, the opinions they draw up and the decisions they make. The fact that their term has expired does not in any way affect the fullness of their competence. Secondly, I said last time that I will continue to oppose the insinuation that the expiry of that period could have some impact on their positioning. The regulator does a sound and correct job and we must proceed with the appointment of that management committee. I can express my opinion on this as soon as I have a complete dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. First of all, it can't be that hard to get that file completely. I can even tell on the screen that the person who made the calls is listening. If she listens, she might be able to tell you after this sitting what exactly happened there. It seems to me to be the logic itself that such a thing happens. Secondly, I understand that it has no legal consequences, but it is not that healthy. It would not be a good thing if, because of the absence of legal consequences, we decided to leave them for 27 years. I do not think that is a good idea, and I would therefore ask you to do so as soon as possible. Finally, we are all very concerned about the independence of the CREG. I noticed that in the handling of the policy paper. I have never heard so many parties from the majority and the opposition stress how important the independence of the CREG is than after your letter. I think you did push us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u29	It seems that as one gets older, short-term memory begins to erode, but fortunately my long-term memory is still working. I remember the Minister saying in an interview shortly after she took office that she had only found a few file folders in her predecessor's cabinet. It's painful to hear that you don't have a full file, but I'm willing to believe you. Legally there is no impact, you claim; there is full power. However, I would like to insist that it be put right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u30	Mr President, I refer to my question as tabled. I just want to tell you that several people told me they had a bad video connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u31	Madam Secretary, the Court of Auditors has examined the extent to which the administrative risks are controlled by the institutions of the federal nuclear sector. It has examined whether the action of the institutions is driven by the strategic direction set by the State and whether there are management tools available to enable the State to ensure effective control and framing. It has also evaluated the mechanisms they have put in place in four institutions to control their administrative risks and those of their subsidiaries. The respective regulations of the federal entities of the nuclear sector give them a large management autonomy. This autonomy is partly framed by the supervision exercised by one or more ministers. The Court of Auditors made twelve recommendations. You have replied I read this on page 65 of the audit report that in certain cases a thorough investigation by your services is needed with the organisations and administrations that are under your supervision or under joint supervision. In our committee this refers to the SCK-CEN, the NIRAS and also the IRE, I think. In the hope that you will not repeat that the investigation is ongoing, I dare to make an attempt to ask for your views on the twelve recommendations for the majority of the endorsed institutions within your competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u32	Madam Minister, last week the Court of Auditors published its audit on the administrative risks of the nuclear sector. These are four institutions: the NIRAS, the SCK, the National Institute for Radio Elements (IRE) and, of course, the FANC. Some of the conclusions of that audit are remarkable. I would like to mention three. Firstly, the Court of Auditors states that the federal government does not give any direction or supervise those institutions in any way. The government appoints directors of government, but these representatives do not receive any document indicating the strategic orientations of the minister, their objectives or obligations, including reporting. Cruly, the directors of the government are given carte blanche, so that they can act at their discretion, without any control. Madam Secretary, will you give a letter of order to the current government commissioners? Will you indicate the government's priorities? If so, what are the priorities? I'd be surprised if you didn't. Secondly, the Court of Auditors also noted that there was a problem in covering the costs of managing the radioactive waste from Belgonucléaire, a former nuclear reprocessing plant for nuclear fuel in Dessel. The shareholders of that company were SCK CEN and Electrabel-SUEZ. Apparently, the legislation does not provide for the costs incurred for the SCK and Electrabel-SUEZ to be covered by the NIRAS, as the legislation does not impose any rules in the event that a producer ceases to operate. Madam Minister, can you explain why legislation does not cover these costs? Is the reason Belgonucléaire didn't pay enough contributions to the NIRAS? What happens if other companies producing nuclear waste stop their activities, and I am thinking of the medical sector and nuclear power plants? How will you fix that? Who will ultimately pay the bill for the treatment and management of Belgonucléaire's waste? The third comment I would like to make by the Court of Auditors is that the audit committees and internal audit functions need to be improved. There is also a lack of a global framework for risk management. At present, there is risk management when it comes to operational risks to nuclear safety and security, but not when it comes to other risks. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about that and how do you deal with it? In total, the Court of Auditors made twelve recommendations to the government. In general, therefore, I would like to ask you what actions you intend to take after the audit report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u33	Mr President, in my reply, I could have simply cited the government agreement. In the course of this term of office, the Commission plans to improve the governance of the nuclear research institutions known as the SCK-CEN and the National Radioelement Institute (IRE), as well as to examine ways of ensuring continuity in the financing of waste policy, taking into account the cessation of the activities of certain radioactive waste producers, and to make proposals to adapt the legal and regulatory framework to this end. However, I prefer to refer to the actions that I decided to implement as a matter of priority in 2021, which are reflected in my policy note, to which your questions refer. The first of these actions is a consultation with the above-mentioned research institutions on improving governance, in close cooperation with the Minister responsible for the Economy, since this concerns shared oversight. A management contract with these institutions is one of the ways that will be explored with my services and administration. The second action is the establishment of a task force for the financing of waste management, in accordance with the government agreement. For the institutions under joint supervision, Mr de NIRAS, the SCK and the IRE Group, I will consult with Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne, Minister for Economic Affairs, with whom I share custody. The analysis of the FANC falls under the exclusive competence of the Minister for the Interior. I have already spoken with the NIRAS, the SCK and the IRE to see how their management could be improved. This was a discussion in the context of their activities, not exclusively about the management of the institutions, although this was discussed during the discussion. I have said to all three institutions that I consider it desirable to conclude a management contract, but I have also said that I want to respect the autonomy of the institutions. It must therefore be a dialogue with the aim of improving the management of the institutions. I am convinced that better management will contribute to the transparency of the institutions, in line with the Court of Auditors' report and the coalition agreement. That is why I asked them at first to make suggestions to me. With regard to Mr Warmoes' question about the Commissioners of Government, it would be a mockery to say that they are given carte blanche to act at their discretion and without control. I would like to strongly contradict that. I have already worked with some of those government commissioners, who have been appointed by the previous government, for example during meetings of boards of directors. In doing so, I have noted that the government commissioners are proactively informing me that the board will meet and that they will return to me at the end of such meetings. They want more information about how things work or ask me about my vision. I have the greatest respect for the work the government commissioners do. The fact that they do something at their sole discretion and without control is not true. That does not, of course, alter the fact that I take into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, including those of the Commissioners of Government. ' With regard to the questions on Belgonucléaire, the task force for the financing of waste management, in accordance with the coalition agreement, has to do with this. Belgonucléaire is one of those operators. Belgonucléaire closed its fuel plant in Dessel in 2006 and also dismantled it from 2009 to 2019. Since late 2019, the site has been dismantled and the company no longer has nuclear activities. The company has transferred all radioactive waste related to its fuel production and the decommissioning of its plant to the NIRAS. Belgonucléaire paid all the amounts due to NRAS in accordance with the contracts signed for the conditioning and storage of that waste. Although the waste has been transferred, the company is required by law to continue to pay all future management costs until the final disposal. The company has put in place provisions in its accounting records to cover the costs on the basis of the geological disposal scenario currently used by the NRAS. The financial resources corresponding to those provisions are available in the company, but as the company no longer has commercial revenues, it is possible that its financial resources are not sufficient to cover any increases related to a change in the reference scenario. Therefore, that Task Force should examine how to ensure continuity of funding of waste policy, taking into account the cessation of activities, and make proposals to adapt the legal and regulatory framework to that effect. Discussions are under way between the NRAS and Belgonucléaire on the conclusion of a contract after placing in service, for a limited period, until 2023, which should be extended under conditions to be agreed by the Parties. In the meantime, agreement has been reached on the principles and the parties finalise the contract and the annexes, which take into account the special situation of Belgonucleaire, which has ceased its activities on the one hand and, on the other hand, has transferred all the waste produced. The conclusion of such a contract is an important step forward, but it does not alter the fact that an adaptation of the legislation is necessary to cover all the risks associated with the particular situation of a producer who has ceased its activities, as the NRAS has indicated several times in recent years, in particular in the recommendations contained in the latest versions of the inventory of nuclear liabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer. I believe that this is an important report from the Court of Auditors. In my memory, it seems to me that this is one of the first to focus so completely on the institutions of nuclear governance in our country. You are right: much clearer objectives should be set for nuclear governance in this country. I am thinking in particular of the necessary and sufficient funding for the long-term management of the most highly radioactive waste. As I said in the previous committee on your general policy guidance note, the task force is a good first step in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for saying a little more than your formal reply in the Court of Auditors' report. Of course, contractual relationships are the most delicate. You indicate that you are open to the instrument of a management agreement with the NIRAS and the SCK CEN, but it is indeed a balancing exercise given their autonomy. As Mr Cogolati says, the funding aspect will become quite important in the coming years. There is, of course, also the perimeter of the federal government audit committee, where these entities may need to be housed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u36	Madam Secretary, I think I can say that I am satisfied with your answer. As far as the Commissioners of Government are concerned, of course you have not been employed for very long, but we are talking about a serious institution. If they say such things, I assume there might have been a problem before you took office. I also said that I would be surprised if you didn't. I'll leave the doubt in the middle, but I'm glad you think it's going well. I am relatively satisfied with your answer on the problem of Belgonucléaire. We look forward to the approximation of the legislation you will propose. We will continue to monitor this, because if a company ceases its nuclear activities, it is not, of course, intended that there should be insufficient resources available for the storage and management of their waste. The polluter pays, as is the case in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u37	Madam Secretary, a number of studies have inspired me to investigate the methane losses at Fluxys. This has produced interesting data, for example that 5,000 to 6,000 tonnes of natural gas are leaking out each year, which is a striking figure. There is above all a small operational loss of 0.02 % on a huge amount of natural gas running through the networks. The MARCOGAZ study teaches us that other transport system operators in Europe are doing much worse. Fluxys has losses that are about four times smaller. In the case of distribution networks, it is even more extreme in percentage terms. According to Fluxys, the problems are not increasing, but are very stable. I have already anticipated everything Fluxys normally answers to you when I ask you a question. However, my question is whether efforts will be made and whether there are any results from measures that have an impact on this. Fluxys has already communicated on the deployment of mobile recompression installations. The counterparts of Fluxys, for example in the Netherlands, indicate that they have very low levels of methane emissions. Can Fluxys' efforts be clearly noted in the methane emissions figures? Can you give me more details on that? What efforts are still expected in the coming years? Is Fluxys on track to meet the emission target, a halving of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 2017, effectively in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u38	Mr President, Mr Wollants, on the action plan to reduce own greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2025, this is indeed an objective of a reduction by half compared to 2017. The deployment of various programmes for the further reduction of methane and CO2 in the operation of the infrastructure is under way. The reduction programme is in line with expectations and will continue in the coming years. The methane losses in the Fluxys network amount to 0.02 % of the volumes transported, as you yourself said in your anticipation. This percentage is lower than the average methane losses on the European transport network. In a 2018 study by MARCOGAZ, the technical federation of the European natural gas industry, it is estimated at 0.05 %. Specific to the efforts expected to address methane losses, the programme consists of three tracks. Firstly, the reduction of pneumatic emissions, whereby equipment with higher emissions is adjusted or replaced by equipment controlled by electrical or compressed air. Secondly, the reduction of fugitive emissions, through the implementation of periodic LDAR campaigns, which stands for Leak Detection and Repair, to detect, restore and optimise uncontrolled emission sources. Thirdly, the reduction of emissions during interventions on the grid. If it proves possible, the natural gas that is controlled during interventions is put back on pressure and injected elsewhere. For this purpose, mobile recompression can be used, to which you also refer in your question. In addition to those three specific tracks, there are several other tracks. Several studies are currently looking at what are still possible to further reduce methane emissions. Those efforts are reflected in a further decline compared to 2017. Now I come to carbon emissions. The main sources of CO2 emissions are the LNG terminal and compression stations. The degree of use of those installations and the associated CO2 emissions shall be determined by customers on the basis of market needs. One of the measures taken to reduce CO2 emissions, in addition to ongoing energy efficiency initiatives, includes an ongoing study to build a second installation at the LNG terminal in Zeebrugge using marine heat to regasses LNG. On your previous question at the end of October, I also said that this type of installation is currently best suited to increase energy efficiency. When balancing the grid and controlling the gas flows, Fluxys chooses to use the compression systems as little as possible. Finally, there is also the heating of Fluxys' own buildings. There are also measures to reduce CO2 emissions, including by using green gas. In 2019, Fluxys purchased green gas certificates from the intercommunal IOK Beerse, which produces biomethane for heating the buildings of its registered office and in Anderlecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u39	Madam Secretary, it is always good if I put part of the answer on paper. That's what makes things go faster. I think it is important to see how we can proceed with this. I do know that many private companies are already eager to work together with Fluxys, for example, on gas detection near high-pressure pipes. So there are absolutely possibilities to do so. I also know that efforts will be needed to ensure that those figures go down. Today we do not see that happening for the time being. It's about a small share, but it's still about 5,000 tonnes. For that, we need to make a lot of buildings energy efficient in order to compensate. I'm just asking you to keep following that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u40	Madam Minister, your predecessor has postponed the entry into force of Article 2 (b) of the Act of 7 December 2016 on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy until 1 January 2021. It has done so within the scope of the same law to align its entry into force with the entry into force of the protocol which is to implement it. At the moment, it seems that the protocol has not yet entered into force. Firstly, how will you deal with the problem? Do you have any idea of the ratification procedure with the other signatories? Apparently, a certain percentage of the signatories must ratify the 1960 protocol in order for it to enter into force. Secondly, do you believe that the entry into force of the article should be postponed again pending the entry into force of the Protocol, as was the case in 2018 and 2019? Thirdly, if this is not the case, what are the consequences of the entry into force of the law before the protocol becomes effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u41	Mr Wollants, it is true that Article 20 of the Paris Convention stipulates that the amendments will enter into force on the day that two thirds of the Contracting Parties have submitted their instruments of ratification. On the basis of Council Decision 2004/294/EC of 8 March 2004, all parties to the Paris Convention, which are also Member States of the European Union, must jointly submit their instruments of ratification. Italy was the Member State everyone was waiting for, it was the last Member State to ratify the protocol. Italy did so on 5 October 2020, the date on which the Italian ratification law also entered into force. Since a number of Member States still have to transpose the Protocol into their national legislation and the insurance policies will be closed by September each year for the coming year, I expect, if all goes well, that the Protocol will not enter into force until January 2022, with the exact date to be determined by the parties. This also indicates the inertia in nuclear liability law. Thirty-five years after Chernobyl, we will finally be able to see the re-entry into force. As for the transit in our country, a draft royal decree on entry into force has been submitted to the King for signature and will be published shortly. This Decision postpones the entry into force of the 2004 Protocol into our national legislation until 1 January 2022. Depending on the effective date of entry into force of the Protocol in 2022, I do not rule out the fact that I and my colleague from Economy will have to submit a final delay to the King, but for the time being my hope is that 2022 will enter into force. You asked about the delay and what would happen if we did not postpone it. We had a very interesting hearing on this subject in this committee a while ago, following a legislative proposal by our colleague Kris Verduyckt. This showed that there are difficulties in terms of insurance capacity and level playing field. If we did not postpone entry into force, there would be more serious obligations on our Belgian core operators than on operators abroad. In that sense, that level playing field is important. What is important is that this could enter into force on 1 January 2022. That will be a major step forward in our nuclear liability law, because this means that the concept of nuclear damage is finally extended to include environmental and economic damage. Think back to the Chernobyl disaster. Some of us were a little too young to remember, but Armand Pien announced not to eat spinach. Following the Chernobyl disaster, harvest stocks, spinach and milk were destroyed, and this damage was not eligible for compensation for indirect damage. If this protocol finally enters into force, 35 years after Chernobyl, on 1 January 2022, then this damage will also be eligible for compensation. The same applies to compensation for physical damage to be claimed up to 30 years after date. There is another important aspect that I would like to emphasise. We could do nothing now for a year and wait for 1 January 2022. However, I think we should use this year to look for all the possibilities to ensure the risk. In the hearing, we heard that the insurance capacity is really an issue. If the risk cannot be covered by the Belgian insurance market, the intervention will be borne by the State in the form of a State guarantee. We must therefore make use of the next year to identify the possibilities for ensuring this risk. It was a very interesting hearing here in Parliament, including with insurance companies. It might be a suggestion to follow up on this. I shall follow it with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The expectations are already clear; we will wait and see how that goes. As far as the insurance obligation is concerned, you say that the guarantee is payable by the State. If I'm not mistaken, it's never been decided that the state should do it for free. This, of course, has a connotation other than a statement that this is being passed on to the State and the problem for the operator has been solved. It will have to pay for this and more than what it is paying for the insurance he can get on the private market. Otherwise, of course, it would be easy to rely on uninsurability if it would become cheaper, but that is not the case and that is not the case. We will have to consider how to organise the next hearings. We may indeed have to ask someone from your cabinet to testify on this, as we did a decade ago, but I do not know whether that is still deontologically justifiable. We'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u43	Mr President, Minister, the NSEC is becoming increasingly important or will become increasingly important. More and more articles appear in the press that the development of offhorewind is becoming increasingly important in relation to foreign projects in neighbouring countries, such as the Netherlands and England. On 6 July 2020 the six-monthly meeting of the NSEC took place via video call. The aim is to facilitate the development of offshore winds and the integration of large quantities of offshore winds into the European energy markets. Energy Ministers within the NSEC agreed that the potential of offshore wind is not yet fully exploited. We also know the objectives and dreams of the European Commission. I don't mean that pejoratively. There must be ten times more offshore wind capacity by 2050. Apparently, the rate at which offshore wind capacity is added annually is not large enough. In addition to working together, governments should also start developing joint or hybrid offshore wind projects that connect with more than one country. This theme has already been addressed here, including the pioneering role of Elijah and her expertise in this area. According to ministers, the rapid roll-out of international wind projects was still limited by a multitude of administrative and technical barriers. In December 2020, so this month, a new meeting of the NSEC was planned. Madam Minister, we are only 8 December 2020. I don't know if that meeting has taken place yet. I don't know. I didn't find the answer either on the Benelux Secretariat's web site. My questions are as follows. In the second half of 2020, the NSEC would focus on further developing concrete proposals for hybrid projects, maritime spatial planning and offshore grid planning as well as on a long-term vision of the role of electricity generation from renewable energy sources in the offshore sector until 2050. Can you give an overview of the initiatives taken since the meeting of 6 July 2020? What administrative and technical barriers do you wish to remove in the Belgian context during the current legislature? What decisions were taken at the December 2020 meeting? Mr President, my question was put before the present committee meeting was scheduled. I thought I would ask my question in January 2021. We are 8 December 2020 and the meeting may not have taken place yet. Has the Belgian candidate been selected for the presidency and will Belgium actually be President in 2021? Perhaps there is no candidacy at all and Belgium will automatically become President? In that case, you should clarify the procedure. In that case, what points of interest would you like to put forward next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u44	Those were speculative questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u45	Mr Ravyts, I was indeed wondering whether you were too early with your questions. There hasn't been a meeting yet. It is scheduled for 14 December 2020. Belgium will indeed become President of the NSEC in 2021. I am expected to present the key points of the Belgian Presidency to the North Sea countries that are members of the NSEC on 14 December. We're working hard to refine our strategy and see where we want to put the clamps. Once Belgium held the NSEC above the baptismal font. In view of the European Commission's offshore strategy initiatives, I would like to actively fill in the Presidency. I have learned to keep the arm on occasion, but one of the priorities I already have in mind is to make better use of the maritime zones. That is what I would like to see on the agenda, in addition to the interconnections that are essential in order for the networks to use their full capacity. Among other things, I am thinking of the hybrid connectors that Elia is working on. The Nautilus project could thus be the first hybrid connector, in cooperation with the United Kingdom. I'll be right back. I will present that agenda to my fellow ministers. So I can take into account what they think is important. Of course, I will keep you informed of this. I answered your last question first. As far as your first questions are concerned, you know that the various working groups have done a lot of preparatory work. As you know, the European Commission is also a member of the NSEC. As a result, there is also mutual fertilization between the participating countries, on the one hand, and the European Commission, on the other. The European Commission's offshore strategy is an excellent framework to address a number of currently existing barriers. The plans for maritime zones and offshore grid planning can be further developed, as can the hybrid projects already agreed between countries, not only with Belgium. Nor can it be overlooked that progress has sometimes been hampered by the Brexit negotiations, which may mean that membership of the United Kingdom should take a different form. The administrative and technical barriers to be addressed during this legislature are not limited to NSEC. The procedures for the new offshore zones and onshore connections should be examined. Belgium should pay attention to the potential potential of hybrid projects and/or import capacity. The necessary interconnections are also important during the Belgian presidency of NSEC. We also need to consider, in the context of the Brexit, how to create opportunities for UK membership after 31 December 2020. I would like to emphasise that the United Kingdom is a member of NSEC. The form of membership should be reviewed. However, I have decided not to let Brexit stand in our way. In this sense, I have also spoken with Mr Kwasi Kwarteng, my colleague from the United Kingdom, and a very inspiring colleague. There is a common project between Belgium and the United Kingdom, namely the Nautilus project, which will be the first hybrid connector and can be realised by 2028, an ambitious timing. Both Mr Kwarteng and I have expressed the ambition to give the necessary political direction so that we can reach that timeline. It is an important project for our own security of supply, but also an important project for the United Kingdom to achieve climate neutrality, which it still supports, by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u46	Thank you, Madam Minister, for being prepared to give an answer, even though the meeting has not yet taken place. I will perhaps come back to this in January when you have actually agreed with your European colleagues. You spoke clearly of Nautilus, the hybrid connector for 2028, in connection with security of supply. Interconnection will also be a central concept in your policy. There's no other way. Your policies and targets are, in fact, linked to interconnection. We can come back to this later in many debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u47	Mr Cogolati, as I had the opportunity to explain to you on 27 October and as confirmed by Electrabel, the legal proceedings to which you refer in your question are still ongoing. Therefore, I cannot rule on the substance of these questions. Electrabel is responsible for the production of nuclear fuels containing the fissile material made available by Synatom. Electrabel contracts with nuclear fuel suppliers for the conversion of the material, the manufacture of fuel pellets and the assembly of the fuel elements which will then be delivered to the Doel and Tihange sites. Various suppliers of nuclear fuels exist on the market and Electrabel uses the services of two of them to supply its nuclear reactors. Suppliers have several manufacturing plants located in different countries. The choice of plants used to produce nuclear fuel is the responsibility of suppliers only. To date, Electrabel estimates that about 25% of the proportion of nuclear fuels will be produced in Germany. I would remind you that the technical specificities of fuels for Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants make it difficult for Electrabel to find another supplier within a reasonable time. The situation is therefore serious. My services and administration are following closely the development of this issue. The questions about the AFCN are not part of my skills, but rather those of my colleague, Mrs Verlinden. Since I have the greatest respect for the independence of our nuclear regulator, I would therefore ask you to address these questions to my colleague. I would like to add a little comment. In this case, our two firms work together and work together, each with respect for its expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you. I will also call on Minister Verlinden, with due regard for her powers, at the Committee on the Interior scheduled for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u49	Madam Secretary, I have had doubts as to whether this matter was within your competence. When one thinks about soil restoration, one thinks about the environment and then one automatically thinks about Mrs Khattabi. I'm trying to make sense, but there's not much logic in politics. The Law of 28 April 2019 on the approval of the cooperation agreement of 25 July 2018 finally gave the green light to the Fonds Bottom Cleaning Gas Oil Tanks Heating or the Promaz vzw. The fund would be financed in a first phase through the BOFAS surpluses. There is a three-year notification period in which persons wishing to rely on the Fund must submit their application. However, Promaz is still a fund in existence. It is intended to provide the owner or user of a fuel oil tank used for heating, care and financial support for soil cleaning if there is a soil contamination caused by a leak in the storage tank or pipes. The Vzw Promaz has started preparations to submit an accreditation dossier as a fund for the soil cleaning of gas oil tanks to the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission (IBC). On 24 April 2020, a second and amended proposal was submitted to the IBC for evaluation. The sector undertook to commit itself to the coordination of the fund, provided that some conditions are met relating to the financial feasibility of the fund over the 20-year period, including now the monkey from the sleeve of Promaz makes a contribution to the maximum price of gas oil heating and gas oil diesel from the recognition of Promaz. In any event, the notification period can only start with recognition. An annoying file, Madam Secretary. I think so, anyway. What steps has the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission taken in this dossier since 24 April 2020? What is the overall state of play in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u50	Mr Ravyts, I have an answer for you, but I would like to say straight away that the answer does not satisfy me either. Promaz vzw is a very nice project, it is about the renovation of fuel oil tanks. I agree with you that no progress has been made in this respect. You have outlined the situation in your answer. That's what's in my answer. In recent years, cooperation between the federal government and the various regions has been developed. There is the cooperation agreement of 18 July 2018, which provides for the establishment of a fund for the soil restoration of gas oil for heating purposes. That fund could then intervene in the costs of soil pollution from a masquerade tank. It is therefore up to the gas oil heating sector concerned to set up such a fund which meets the conditions for approval. The oil sector federations Informazout, the Belgian Petroleum Federation and the Belgian Federation of Fuel Dealers (Brafco) have set up this association. The Vzw Promaz has started preparations to submit a recognition file to the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission (IBC), which then has a period of four months to grant the Vzw Promaz the recognition as a fund for soil remodelling. A first version of basic principles was proposed in December 2019. These basic principles have subsequently been adapted on the basis of the objections raised, but this has not so far led to the formal submission of a recognition file. The date on which the approval decision of the reorganisation fund is published in the Belgian Official Journal is the starting date of the fund. At the same time, this is also the start of the three-year application period to register with this fund. As a minister, I find it difficult to settle for this answer. There are enormous numbers of people in our country who have been affected by such soil pollution and it is a dossier which is very close to the heart not only of this government but also of the Flemish Government. By the way, I have already discussed this dossier with my Flemish colleague responsible for Energy, and I have scheduled a meeting with Brafco shortly. I specifically asked that meeting to insist explicitly on the further implementation of this project. It is, among other things, the Commissioner of Government, whom we have just mentioned, who has drawn my attention to the fact that there is an incentive to launch this project. A start-up capital could be available, but there are concerns in the sector. I certainly intend to look with Brafco shortly at how we can take further steps in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u51	Are you satisfied with the fact that the Minister cannot settle for what is in store, Mr Ravyts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u52	I think we agree, otherwise I would not ask the question either. You understand that, Mr President. One of your predecessors, Mr Van Quickenborne, was also interested in this dossier. It has recently received less press coverage, but I am sure Minister Van der Straeten will no longer be able to do so. Madam Minister, in your past life as a representative of the people, you also received the answer from the petroleum sector, including from Brafco, following earlier questions from myself and Mr Van Quickenborne. At that time, the sector gave a comprehensive state of play. I think it is a good thing that you take the cow by the horns and that you will effectively sit at the table to get progress. That is another oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u53	Madam Secretary, this is about something completely different. I would almost say that this is about Mrs Ghijs's free gallery in De Standaard. I seem to have asked my question at the right time, because especially with the weather conditions of the last few days and the record price paid yesterday on the energy market, energy storage batteries are therefore becoming increasingly important. In October, the EU Battery Alliance was established, a European Commission plan to further expand battery production in Europe. The approach is that the development of a battery industry for the European Union should be a strategic priority. Only the European scale can make us compete with China. There are other players, but okay. Belgium supported this initiative and the Belgian Permanent Representation to the EU organised a high-level stakeholder consultation on the Roadmap for the European Alliance for Batteries (EBA) from 2018. The European Commission launched a strategic action plan in this area in May 2018 and the FPS Economy organised a round table to see how Belgian companies could become more involved in this initiative. By the way, there was more than one round table, which eventually involved the administration of the FPS Energy. Madam Minister, to what extent are you, of course in consultation with your colleague, Mr Dermagne, active in attracting investments in battery production in Belgium with a view to the desired transition of the Belgian energy sector, large-scale electricity storage, security of supply and the stabilisation of the grid? To what extent do you think battery production and battery parks are important in the Belgian context in order to make our energy system more flexible? Can you provide a report on the work in 2019 and 2020 of the two working groups working in ENOVER on this issue? It is therefore about the working groups ENOVER Mobility and Hydrogen. Which projects related to batteries have been selected for support within the Energy Transition Fund in recent years? Where does Belgium stand with cross-border cooperation on batteries?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u54	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, this is indeed a shared competence with my colleague, Mr Dermagne. You ask me what I can do to attract investment in battery production. In this context, I would like to refer to the CRM, which is technology-neutral and in which batteries and battery parks, if they are eligible, can participate. In other words, the company that developed the battery park in Bastenaken also introduced its projects to me. My competence is mainly within the framework of the CRM. With regard to the ENOVER working groups, my administration is not involved. At the same time, the ENOVER hydrogen and energy storage working groups and the ENOVER transport working group did not organise meetings on batteries. In reply to your question about the Energy Transition Fund, I can tell you that in the past projects with battery applications have been effectively selected. These are three, in particular, firstly, BREGILAB, which is to ensure the balance in the Belgian electricity system with maximum use of renewable energy sources through a network injection limit algorithm and optimal battery placement, which is a very self-explanatory title. The second project is OMNIBUSS of Optimal Management of Network Imbalances and Balancing Using Software Steering of Energy Storage Asset. The third project is METIS, Meet the Energy Transition through Innovative Storage Solutions. Mr Ravyts, any supported project, not only the battery projects but all supported projects under the Energy Transition Fund, can be consulted on the website of the AD Energy. There you can find more information about each of these three projects. For cross-border cooperation on batteries, coordination is carried out by the services of the General Management Economic Potential of the FPS Economy, which falls within the competence of my colleague, Minister Dermagne. However, I certainly take the question put by the President, which he asked earlier than today, in particular in order to clarify the division of powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u55	Madam Minister, it is true that we are actually rather on the economic front when I insist on more explanation about production. Perhaps I should address your colleague, Mr Dermagne. However, you cannot deny that the terms battery and battery parks are related to the CRM. I also refer to what is happening at regional level on solar panels and support for home batteries for local storage in decentralised production. This is becoming increasingly important. However, the share of your specific competence will be more effectively limited. I will present this to your colleague responsible for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u56	Madam Secretary, this week, Montel published an article on the need for new capacity in this country. There are some firm statements on the table, I think. I quote: 'I think it will be different to call for new capacity', 'Next Kraftwerke Belgium and Elindus told Montel they were concerned state officials cherry-picking new scenarios to support the existence of the capacity scheme', and finally: 'Elia will do everything it can to demonstrate there is an adverse concern in Belgium'. That's not bad. You must be somewhat concerned about such statements in the file, mustn't you? We are of course familiar with the discussions between Elijah and the CREG, but I have the impression that other energy players are now also interfering in the debate. It is, of course, about the marbles, as is commonly referred to, about a lot of money. An average new gas power plant compared to the most recent built gas power plant in our country, T-Power, could get around 30 million euros. For a larger gas plant, as currently planned in Dilsen-Stokkem, we are quickly at EUR 60 million. That raises questions about the future. Madam Secretary, how do you deal with these matters? The assessments I read can potentially have a huge impact on the cost of the whole system. Are you considering the use of external parties to clear the fog in the file? What steps will you take to restore market confidence? If such cases are carried out, it may also have a serious impact on the bid amount of current or potential producers. We know where these costs will end: at least in the budget and possibly in another place, depending on what you will deliver to the Chamber before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u57	Thank you, Mr Wollants, for your small comment in the margin. I read the article, too. The timing and nature of the article may be linked to the fact that the consultation period for market participants under the CRM has ended. This might explain the statements made by market players on the CRM. I actually have a double feeling about this: as long as everything is still a bit pending, it will, of course, feed such statements or articles even more; hence my choice to work in the CRM dossier with the necessary transparency and follow the steps of the resolution well. Indeed, providing transparency should be the best way to provide a framework for the market: what are we doing and when will we do what? The preliminary draft KB establishing the calculation method of the necessary capacity volume and the parameters necessary for the organisation of the auctions under the capacity fee mechanism, followed to determine the scenario used for the first auction, the consultation and recommendation by the system operator, then the regulator's proposal, the AD Energy opinion and, finally, the Minister's decision... These are the different steps in the file and according to those steps, it will also provide a more global framework for the market as regards the CRM. At the moment, based on the scenario set by my predecessor and myself for the intermediate value, Elia has produced a report which, on the one hand, includes a number of calculations on the basis of which the regulator will now develop a proposal of demand curve, including volume, and, on the other hand, a number of proposals for other auction parameters. The scenario used is therefore not the HiLo scenario referred to in the article you quote. At the moment, I cannot and do not want to make any statements about the actual assessments of the volume, because it is not up to me to do so. After all, I did not take up my duties until the end of the journey, after the necessary steps had been taken by my administration and also by the CREG. With regard to the external opinions, the draft of the KB contains various consultations and opinions, thus providing the necessary checks and balances. So I am reluctant, and not actually a asking party, to ask for any other external advice. I think we are now really on track to create a funnel towards the volume determination, which will then lead to the first auction in October. As far as your third question is concerned, several market players have indicated that they are satisfied with the clear choices made. It is now up to the government to make its choices. What I will do, in particular, is to follow up the dossier as actively as possible at the European Commission. It will be a final decision of ours, but it can only happen if the European Commission agrees to our system. My plan is to avoid this, to proactively address the issue and to demonstrate the necessary transparency. I believe that there are still questions on the agenda on this subject which allow me to deal with the subject in greater depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u58	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Above all, we need to be very vigilant and see what direction it goes in order to avoid building capacity that we do not need, but we do need to pay. This is how we put ourselves on a slope that we may regret very much afterwards. So I'm following it with my eyes crossed. I have, of course, also read the report you made available to the committee. There were some strange things in there. I think it's the first time a question curve is presented that knocks off at 15 gigawatts. The future will have to tell us what happens with it. If that bar is raised, there will of course be enough capacity to build, while we may just have to go the other way. That is a different discussion, but it fits in well with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u59	Madam Minister, Elijah's report on recommendations for the strategic reserve for the coming winter is now online. This would show that there is no need for this in the base case scenario in the coming winter, but if the HiLo scenario is chosen. In this case, for the winters 2022-2023 and 2023-2024 there are 800 MW and 100 MW respectively. This, of course, raises the question of how far you will choose between the two scenarios presented here next to each other. Depending on the choice that is made there, you will have to think further about what you are going to do. Are you going to extend the European adoption of the strategic reserve or are you not? On the basis of the scenario presented here, this choice is absolutely necessary. Madam Secretary, how do you read Elijah's report in this area and what actions do you link to it? Are you investigating whether you should extend the strategic reserve, or is that issue actually completely out of order on the basis of this report? Are you going for a HiLo scenario or will you ask Elia to work out a scenario in between?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u60	This is about Elijah's probabilistic analysis of the volume required, item 15 on the agenda. I suggest you join us, Mr Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u61	Mr President, on 30 November, Elia published the probabilistic analysis on Belgium's security of supply for the winter 2021-2022. This analysis provides important information that the Minister can take into account to decide on the required volume of strategic reserve. The report also provides a preview for the next winter. In addition to a base case scenario, Elia also calculates a sensitivity analysis that evaluates high-impact events with low probability, HiLo in other words. As in previous years, Elia's recommendation is based on this sensitivity analysis. This approach was endorsed by the Competition DG of the European Commission. What is your response to this report, in particular with regard to the question of the possible extension of the strategic reserve? Specifically, what exactly are you opting for, as Mr Wollants pointed out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u62	Mr President, Mr Wollants, Mr Ravyts, you can ask questions faster than I can decide, but you also know that I have to wait for the opinion of my administration for my decision and that I will have to take a decision later by 15 January 2021. But I'm not gonna send you out with a rug. Indeed, in relation to Elia's report, the need for the winters 2022-2023 and 2023-2024, it is only in the HiLo scenario. I can absolutely understand that Elia included the HiLo scenario in this report, because this scenario was drawn up in the framework of the strategic reserve and approved by DG Competition under the strategic reserve. It has always been used in the past. Then I get to the actions. There is no need for 2021-2022. I await the advice of my administration by 15 December at the latest. I'll have to make a decision by January 15 at the latest. So I can't say anything about that right now. I'm really waiting for the advice. No decision has been made for the following winters either. What is written in this report by Elijah is not new, as their adequacy studies have shown. This is a topic that we need to take on together with Elijah and the authorities involved. You both asked questions about whether or not to extend the strategic reserve. Or do we no longer have to look at it now that we know that there is also a base case? For me, the issue is not over on the basis of this report. We must take advantage of this report in order to examine further together, my administration with the authorities concerned. The choice of scenario has not been decided. You also know that the strategic reserve works with HiLo, but in the reference scenario chosen under the CRM, it is no longer working with HiLo but with a sensitivity of 1.7 gigawatt. When we talk about what we are going to do in the middle winters, my view and intention as Minister is that we should bring uniformity to the scenarios. We cannot work for the first with one scenario and for the second with another scenario. So we will have to look at how we do this, but from the point of view of predictability and predictability, we must bring uniformity to the scenarios we use. For the All-knowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u63	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. We will indeed have to look at what is going on. There's always an opportunity for appreciation. I should not go back so far in time to find myself in a situation where it was advised not to set up a strategic reserve, on which we then needed one. It's not always black and white. It's not because it's written to Elijah that way that it'll be the truth in two or three years. It will always be a prophecy based on what we know today. I am, of course, looking forward to the piste you will be walking. If we are looking at an extension of the strategic reserve, we need to find a way to connect the strategic reserve, on the one hand, and what will then be included in the CRM, on the other. For me, these may not be 100 % of separate worlds. We work for a large part on existing capacity, which in some cases is outside the market and which in other cases can participate in the market, in a CRM. The good hearer knows exactly what I mean. We cannot see these two things completely apart from each other. We must continue to work on that basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u64	Madam Secretary, I actually agree with Mr Wollants. The strategic reserve has been discussed several times with the CREG and Elijah in the CRM debates, not occasionally. The question about the strategic reserve is also not without topical value, given France's communication on the availability of nuclear production there. I think we should keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u65	Madam Minister, so far no choice has been made for one or other support mechanism for offshore wind energy. However, it is very relevant, at least according to the wind sector itself, to what we get afterwards. WindEurope, which calls itself the voice of the European wind industry, indicates that. The CEO of WindEurope said that choosing a long-term support mechanism, in particular a two-sided contract for difference, would halve the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE). The main reason for this is a direct link between financing at lower costs and the choice of the mechanism to deal with it. Of course, WindEurope does not comment on other types of long-term support mechanisms. At present, however, we are still at a stage in which it is possible to make a choice as to how to deal with the next area. Therefore, it seems to me that it is worth considering to what extent that choice also has an effect on the whole cost of the system and also on the necessary support. Madam Minister, will you include the effect on the LCOE of the chosen mechanism in the further development of the auctioning of the next zone? Do you know of any other study work that supports WindEurope's statements and could possibly guide us to a more detailed basis? When will choices be made on the roll-out of the mechanism? Of course, this has an impact on those companies that want to respond to it. I would like to make a link with a question by Mr Verduyckt, which, according to the agenda, will be discussed later today. Apparently Mr Verduyckt is afraid that the big money will run with our wind turbines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u66	Madam Secretary, I have seen that you have recently taken a boat to the sea to open one of our new wind farms. The question I am asking is more general and not directly focused on the current projects, involving a lot of foreign money and money from large companies. In what way will we ensure it in the future? It is a boltade, but the wind and the sun are everyone's that we can also enjoy the good wind of the North Sea? What, in your opinion, are any obstacles to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u67	Thank you for your questions, Mr Wollants, Mr Verduyckt. As regards the LCOE, the regulatory framework that will apply to the next zone, the Princess Elisabeth Windmolenzone, will indeed take into account the cost effect of the chosen tender mechanism. I would like to add that, both for my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, who is responsible for the North Sea, and for myself and the entire government pars pro toto, the falling costs of offshore winds must be translated into the support scheme for the second wind zone. You ask me if I know of any other study work that further supports WindEurope's statements. There are three possibilities. Firstly, a competitive tendering procedure with a so-called zero bid. The abbreviation used for this is "zero prayers." Secondly, a competitive tender procedure with a fixed price. Thirdly, a competitive tendering procedure through an auction, whereby the applicants do not receive a subsidy, but will compensate the public authorities for building and operating the offshore electricity production facilities. For each of the three options there are advantages and disadvantages. WindEurope places great emphasis on the two-sided CfDs of contracts for difference. Two weeks ago, I sat down with my colleague Van Quickenborne. The starting point must be how to translate the falling costs into the system very well. He has a preference and I have one too, but since the finality is the same, the remedy doesn't really matter much. For transparency, the most important question is how and when these choices are made. I asked the CREG to conduct a study by June 2021 and to make a recommendation for the tender mechanism for the offshore tender. Before 2023, we will then draft a decision implementing the applicable Article 6/3 of the Electricity Act. We will have to notify this to the European Commission, in accordance with European state aid rules. After that, it can actually enter into force. With regard to Mr Verduyckt's question, I would like to refer to the same article of the Electricity Act, Article 6/3, § 3, 9°. That is to say, by a decision adopted after consultation of the Council of Ministers and after consulting the Commission, the King shall determine the conduct of the competitive tendering procedure, the conditions and procedure for granting the domain concessions and the general conditions for the use of the lots, and in particular point 9 thereof, the extent to which and the manner in which citizen participation can be provided by the holder of a domain concession. For me, citizens are an integral part of the energy transition and I will certainly continue to explore and welcome any initiatives that can ensure that they too can take an active role in our offshore wind energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u68	Madam Minister, we are, of course, looking forward to the outcome of this study. At the same time, I also know that there have been occasional zero prayers in recent years, with a lot of reservations. One can be very pleased with the fact that the auction result was zero, until one reads that it was actually only valid and would only be built if the electricity price was at least 80 euros per megawatt hour at that time. I just want to say that sometimes it may seem like one should be happy with a dead sparrow. I'm a little worried about that. If you have the ambition to have that energy at your disposal, you must be able to make an agreement somewhere, so that there is a little more certainty that they will also be built effectively. I refer to a number of projects in the Netherlands and Denmark, where there was no building guarantee, but a very low price was agreed. There the CREG can undoubtedly share its experience with other regulators who are confronted with the same. I'd like to take a look at that. The answer you gave to Mr Verduyckt's question sounded different from what I read in the question, but if he is satisfied with it, I am sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u69	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I will certainly look at the references in your reply. Your attitude is the same as mine. There are a lot of successful projects in the country today, and I think that with the amendment of a number of rules, including at the Flemish level, such as solar panels, we should be able to activate the Belgian savings book for this type of project and to increase the involvement of our citizens in green electricity projects. We have every interest in this. That is a good thing, also and above all to ensure that the money is not secreted abroad. That was partly the thrust of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u70	Madam Minister, Belgium and the transposition of European directives, that is, of course, an old one. The communication of the Court of Justice of the European Union came after our discussion with the CREG, which is why I would like to put the question to you. The CREG has a set of tasks and objectives corresponding to those of a regulator in the energy market, in accordance with the European directives, in addition to a comprehensive advisory package. However, there is no precise definition of the role of the CREG as an advisor to that of the General Energy Directorate of the FPS Economy, nor is there any clarity as to the channels of communication through which the opinions are conducted. There has been a dispute over the transposition of the European directives into Belgian law for several years, including in relation to some of the CREG's competences, with Europe. Last week, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that Belgium did not correctly transpose the directives on European rules on electricity and gas. The Court specifically rejects the Belgian Government's argument that not the CREG, but the Competition Service, which falls within the scope of the FPS Economy, and the Belgian Competition Authority, as administrative authorities, would have exclusive power to take binding measures to promote effective competition on the market. As a result of the two directives on electricity and gas, that power should be conferred on the CREG. On the basis of the current legislation, the CREG can take binding decisions, but they can only cover existing obligations. In the Court's view, however, the CREG should also be able to take new decisions independently. In line with the directives, the CREG should also be given exclusive powers to lay down the conditions for connection and access to national networks. What is your response to the judgment and what legal conclusions does the federal government draw from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u71	Mr President, there is also a question from Mr Warmoes on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u72	Madam Secretary, I know, but I haven't seen him yet. He left here and told me he had to go somewhere else. He would log in in in time and contact the secretariat. So you can answer the question in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u73	Mr Ravyts, I have taken note of the judgment on three main points. Firstly, the transmission system operator must own the entire transmission system. Secondly, the regulator must be able to take binding decisions independently in order to ensure the benefits for customers through the promotion of effective competition, which is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal markets in electricity and gas. Finally, there are the core powers of the regulator under Article 37 of the third package, which is a directive which dates back to 2009 and for which a very long process has been carried out. It is my ambition to come out more quickly with an adaptation of the legislative framework than has been the case. You will note that this will not be so difficult. Nevertheless, we still have to do the transposition of the Clean Energy Package. At the moment, my administration is looking at how we can make use of this transposition so that at the same time we can adapt our electricity and gas law to the Court's judgment on those three points, so that we can avoid a new conviction of the Belgian State and certain fines. I have here three pages of analysis of the judgment, but it is quite clear to me what the Court has said there. I do not think there is much margin for interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u74	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u75	We can certainly get you that. The conclusion for me is, above all, that there are no major problems and that we will proceed quickly with the adaptation of our regulations. We are simply going to use the transposition of a number of directives that we still have to do. Then we'll take it to Parliament in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u76	I have no problem with your pragmatic approach to linking that to the conversion of the Clean Energy Package. It is, of course, a file that you inherit, but I wanted to bring it to your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u77	Minister, in a report with four research institutions, the United Nations Environment Programme assessed the gap between the climate commitments made at the Paris conference and the expected production of coal, oil and gas. It shows that fossil energy production has gone to double by the end of the decade, while it is expected to fall by an average of 6% per year to limit warming to 1.5°C. At the same rate, fossil fuel production would increase by 2 per cent per year, where it is expected to decrease by 11 per cent for coal, 4 per cent for oil and 3 per cent for gas, if we are to maintain the ambitious and binding climate targets we have set ourselves. When I speak of obligation, it is in the sense that we must take stock of the stakes, of course. The report notes, however, that the immediate effect of the covid-19 pandemic was to reduce fossil production by 7% in 2020. However, at a time when the G20 governments have so far announced $233 billion in stimulus measures in the fossil sectors, compared with 146 billion for the so-called "green" sector, the fossil production expected in the decade would be 120% higher than it should be to limit warming to 1.5°C. Madam Minister, I come to my questions. Have you read the report? If so, what analysis do you get? While the World Meteorological Organization has also just stressed that the past decade has been the hottest on a global scale and that 2020 should be the second hottest on the same scale, behind 2016 and ahead of 2019, does our country intend to seize the opportunity of the pandemic and advocate with the G20, including the European Union, for a significant reduction in fossil energy production, particularly for the benefit of ever more renewable energy production?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u78	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, unfortunately I have not yet had the opportunity to read the report. Therefore, I cannot yet share my conclusions with you on this matter. But I thank you for drawing my attention to the report. I will discuss this issue in detail with my administration in the coming days. With regard to the G20, Belgium is not a member of the G20. It therefore does not participate in the deliberations on this issue. However, the current government agreement is part of an ambitious national and international policy that embraces the climate ambitions of the Paris Agreement and the objectives of the European Green Deal. With this in mind, the current government is committed to continuing the development of renewable energies, particularly at sea. The PNEC therefore provides for the doubling of the offshore wind. This is a policy already decided under the former legislature. It will be implemented as soon as possible in accordance with legal procedures. I refer here to my answers to the previous questions. During this term, we will also examine whether additional capacity can be achieved from offshore wind in the North Sea, in cooperation with other countries along the North Sea. Finally, I would like to point out that in addition to the subsequent deployment of the offshore, this government has committed itself to giving the necessary attention to innovative renewable energies at sea, to the decarbonisation of gas, to the production of low-carbon hydrogen and, in particular, to the transport infrastructure for hydrogen. To this end, the federal government will encourage pilot projects, establish regulatory frameworks and accelerate further innovations. In this way, the government and I want to put renewable energy at the heart of the energy transition. We will fully support projects and initiatives launched at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for reminding us of Belgium's commitments. Nevertheless, the figures I have mentioned here are worrying. The goals multiply all over the world, with big announcements. I believe that it is now urgent to move from objectives to direct and immediate achievement. Indeed, it has been a decade since it has been generally accepted that we must collectively do more, and even more, to limit global warming. However, beyond these announcements, the results are very negative. I do not need to remind you of this, as I said in my question: we are increasingly dependent on fossil fuels and we continue to exploit them more and more. This passage from words to deeds – because that's what it's actually about – must begin with us. We know that in Belgium we are setting ambitious targets, but we are having a hard time putting them into practice. Minister, your role will also be to allow us to take concrete steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u80	Minister, a recent study by the NGO Transport and Environment indicates that the latest models of plug-in hybrid vehicles actually pollute much more than car manufacturers say. We're talking about 28% more CO2 emissions than we promised. Even over small distances, the thermal motor takes precedence over the electric motor, for example at the start of the car or during accelerations. And for longer distances, the vehicle goes into heat after only 11 or 18 km, depending on the model, while it has a much greater range. Worse still, the tests carried out with only the thermal motor and the flat electric battery show a CO2 exceedance of the order of eight times greater for some models compared to what was displayed by the manufacturer. The NGO concludes that the electric motors of the latest models of plug-in hybrid cars are poorly designed and not powerful enough. For his part, the editor-in-chief of the Moniteur Automobile instead denounces the use of these vehicles. According to him, these are bought by companies because there is a tax incentive. But the beneficiaries of these vehicles would never recharge them since they often also have a petrol card paid by the employer and therefore have no financial interest in charging their company car. However, a plug-in hybrid can only emit less CO2 if it is recharged as often as possible. What analysis do you make of the study in question of the NGO Transport and Environment, if, however, you have read about it? Does the government intend to take steps to address this inconsistency of plug-in hybrids that would pollute much more than the alleged reality displayed and praised by the manufacturer and ultimately undermine the benefits of electric powertrains? If so, what is the result of your discussions with your colleagues in charge of Mobility and Finance, but also possibly with your colleagues in the Regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u81	Mr. Ben Achour, thank you. I am sorry, but in fact this is a matter for my colleague, Mr Gilkinet, Minister for Mobility and Mrs De Bleeker, for consumer protection. Before you arrived, there was also a question from Mr Bombled about electric cars. The Chair recalled that there was a need for greater clarity within the government, particularly on this subject, because it was above all on the subject that it created confusion about the competent person and his subjects. I'm so sorry. I asked my staff to contact you, but they couldn't reach you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u82	Minister, there is no problem. I'll take note of that. We will re-ask the matter to Minister Gilkinet. I'm joining the president. The distribution of competences is really unclear. I imagine we'll get used to it in the long run, but a clarification would indeed be necessary on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u83	I fully agree with your last point. I asked the minister to take care of this. Your case is similar to that of Mr. Bombled with a referral to Mr. Gilkinet's jurisdiction. Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u84	Madam Minister, the study is now available on the extranet. As a result, my questions are partly outdated, for which I apologise. What's your first reaction to the study? It is crucial because it is decisive and will form the basis for the volume that will be auctioned under the CRM. Can you give your appreciation of Elijah's study? What do you think are the most important results? What principles were used in the study? Which scenario is included? How many historical climate years are counted for the determination of the LOLE of Loss of Load Expectation? How much volume should be auctioned on the basis of the current calculations? What are the next steps? Can you also provide an updated timeline from now until the volume determination in March 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u85	Mr Warmoes, I delivered the study to the chairman of the committee last week. In the meantime, I believe that Elijah has published them on her website. In previous questions on the strategic reserve and this report, I have already said a few things about this. So please excuse me if I repeat myself. Work has been carried out in accordance with the design of KB establishing the calculation method of the necessary capacity volume and the parameters necessary for the organisation of the auctions under the Capacity Compensation Mechanism. This design of KB has been published on the website of the FPS Economy. Work has been done on the latest European Central Assessment, the MAF 2019, as a scenario. This updated the data and hypotheses on the basis of the most relevant information. In addition, two sensitivities were defined, in this case an adapted consumption due to the COOVID-19 crisis and sensitivity to the unavailability of 1.7 gigawatts of French nuclear capacity. This is also explained in the reply given by the Belgian State to the European Competition Authority in October. We have had several exchanges of views on this subject. Therefore, the MAF 2019 was updated on the basis of the most recent relevant information and with two sensitivities, the COVID-19 crisis and the unavailability of 1.7 gigawatts of French nuclear capacity, the reference scenario determined by my predecessor. As regards climate years, the number of climate years is part of the chosen scenario, in this case the most recent central scenario available at European level, the MAF 2019. The climate database is used from the beginning of the measurements. ENTSO-E is however in the process of adapting the climate database for future adequacy studies. However, it will take a while before this will be implemented. Mr Warmoes, I cannot and will not comment on the volume to be auctioned on the basis of the current calculations. I said that in other questions just now. A strict procedure is followed for the design of KB. Elia delivered the calculations. It is then up to the regulator to draw up a proposal of demand curve by 1 February. Only then will the volume be determined under the CRM. If I were to make statements here right now, I'd be out of my jurisdiction. I have to wait for all the steps that need to be taken. I have to wait for the opinions and proposals to be submitted by my administration and the regulator before the government has the right to decide on the volume by means of a decision to be taken by the Council of Ministers. Sharing the study has taken place in the meantime. What are the next steps and the volume determination? I have a short and a long answer. Mr President, there is a lot of questioning here about the concrete steps to be taken. I propose that I deliver these answers to the committee in writing, in view of the timing. The short answer is that we are now waiting for the regulator's opinion on Elia's proposal on the other non-volume related auction parameters, for example the derating factors and a proposal by the regulator on the demand curve, by 1 February. An opinion from the Energy AD and Elia will then be delivered by 1 March at the latest. In the meantime, we are working on the legislative amendment and the implementing regulation, with which I hope to be able to come to Parliament quickly. The estimate is that this will be in January. We're going to the next ministerial council this week. Then comes the opinion of the Council of State and the second reading. I suspect that we will present it in Parliament in the course of January. Mr Warmoes, I will give the more detailed answer to the committee. I have assumed the steps that have already been taken: the determination of the reference scenario to the instruction of the volume determination, with all intermediate steps and who is doing what exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u86	Mr President, as far as the latter is concerned, I fully understand the need for certain steps and opinions and for them to be carried out in accordance with the procedure. The most important thing for us is the feedback to Parliament and that the latter is always well informed. As far as the climate years are concerned, I'm still a little hungry. The climate study by the VUB at the request of the CREG is important, as has been said repeatedly here. It is not clear to me to what extent this will be taken into account. I certainly hope this is the case, otherwise Elijah will be sleeping rich.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u87	I propose that the more detailed answer should also be included in the Integrated Report, so that everyone knows this and does not always repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u88	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the nuclear tax, which was EUR 600 million in 2011, which is estimated to amount to only EUR 72 million in 2020. I would also like to refer to the text of my question which has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u89	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, we are talking about the law of 11 April 2003, the law on commissions, which regulates the remuneration of nuclear power plant operators Objective 3, Objective 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. On a three-yearly basis, in particular in 2020, in 2023 and in 2026, the CREG is responsible for monitoring the fixed and variable costs further defined and elaborated in the Annex to the Law on commissions. Those costs shall not include, directly or indirectly, costs related to nuclear facilities and their revisions, including facilities for decommissioning and management of irradiated nuclear fuels, with the exception of the first supply of a fuel, which shall be taken over as variable costs for spent fuel during the period. In extending the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2, the previous government has chosen to establish an ex ante and structural mechanism that takes account of the reduction in nuclear rents and prevents excessive profits from being seized. The decrease in the remuneration can be explained by the decrease in electricity prices, the exit of the plants Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1 and the increase in costs. The CREG has been commissioned to assess the revenue eligible for the assessment of the margin of profitability. The CREG is based on the daily selling prices of electricity and the volumes produced by the reactors concerned. The CREG shall establish a methodology for determining the fixed and variable costs of the plants subject to the repartition fee. That method is available online. Subsequently, the CREG also sets the minimum amount for each three-year period. For the period from 2020, 2021 and 2022, that minimum amount shall be EUR 72 million following the application of the degressivity mechanism, while for the previous three-year period it was legally committed at EUR 150 million. There is no doubt that we will be able to discuss this issue more when the Royal Decree establishing the Repartition Contribution has to be ratified by Parliament. Last time we said that we would choose a holiday other than Christmas for that endorsement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. As far as the latter is concerned, I am of course happy to accept the invitation. In my view, there is a lack of transparency in the calculation of the cost and profits of the operation of nuclear power plants. It is well known that Electrabel, not to mention a company by name, artificially kept the energy bill high in order to accelerate the write-off of nuclear power plants, making usury profits, rather than reducing our energy bill. I understand that this is a legacy of your predecessor, but I continue to find it unacceptable that Electrabel gets away with it. Especially in the context of the debate on the decommissioning of nuclear power stations, the safe management and storage of radioactive waste, I hope that society will pay for the costs. I look forward to the future debates on this. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u91	Mr President, Minister, very briefly, the first-generation biofuels are being written off by a lot of institutions and organisations as harmful to the environment and social damage. Are you going to work on phasing out these first generation biofuels, yes or no? For more details, please refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u92	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, your question refers to the blending target for biofuels. You are right to note that in the National Energy and Climate Plan this incorporation target is set at 7% for first generation biofuels, the maximum European Union allowed incorporation rate for first generation biofuels, and at 13.9 % for all biofuels by 2030. These objectives should be reviewed in the context of the European obligations arising from the second Renewable Energy Directive (RED II), in particular achieving 14% renewable energy in the transport sector by the same year. The National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP) agreed that a study would evaluate the technical feasibility of the incorporation rate every two years, including the availability of raw materials, environmental integrity, potential use conflicts, availability of advanced biofuels, availability of other energy sources and consumer costs. An initial study is currently under way and should be completed before the end of this year. As further agreed in the NEKP, the outcome of this study will allow for a change in the degree of incorporation, if necessary. I am therefore eagerly looking forward to the completion of the study. For the sake of completeness of my answer, I would also like to draw your attention to another paragraph in the NEKP, namely the agreement that, if the incorporation rate is not achieved, alternative federal measures should be implemented to achieve the same emission reduction and contribution to the renewable energy objective in the regions. If the regions themselves wish to take additional alternative measures, they can do so. This is also mentioned in the NEKP.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u93	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I find it quite incomprehensible, quite frankly, especially for a green minister. Almost all experts and advisory bodies are now calling for the first generation biofuels to be phased out. That position was also adopted by all the parliaments of that country with the adoption of the interparliamentary climate resolution. Even the public survey of the National Energy and Climate Plan showed that biofuel is not the option most people prefer. I'm not really hearing you say anything about the phase-out. You do not express that wish and you hide behind a study. I would hope you would accept your responsibility in this matter. First-generation biofuels damage sustainable development, undermine our development aid efforts and violate the fundamental right to food. Moreover, the Advisory Council on Policy Coherence for Development (ABCO) was also crystal clear about this. In this case, I am disappointed by your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u94	You should have listened to the radio this morning. The Minister made a statement. I did not know whether it was the responsibility of Mr Dermagne, Mrs De Bleeker or Mrs Van der Straeten. Apparently, this is from all three jurisdictions. In another committee, this was also the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u95	I didn't hear the Minister himself. Probably listening to the RTBF at the time. I do have to adjust my question to current events. That's why I'll read them to you. This morning it was said that the social tariff would be greatly extended to anyone who is entitled to an increased allowance. Madam Minister, perhaps you could say something about the social tariff in addition to the Gas and Electricity Fund? Of course, we welcome this measure. We have already discussed the Gas and Electricity Fund in detail in this House. More than a year ago, the Platform Against Energy Poverty raised the alarm because the resources of the Fund were insufficient to cover the needs of the OCMWs because they were not indexed at that time. Indeed, the indexation mechanism did not work and needs had also increased further in relation to resources. The Platform Against Energy Poverty called for an end to the freeze of indexation, a review of the indexation mechanism and an additional increase in the budget. We had accepted these demands in a resolution. But he didn't make it. An initiative by the Minister did reverse the freeze on indexation for last year and this year. The money for this comes from the dormant fund for flat-rate reductions for natural gas and electricity heating, which is no longer used. We questioned the CREG about that last week. The CREG indicated that this dormant fund still has sufficient resources to cover the indexing of 2021, but that there would no longer be sufficient resources from 2022 onwards. Madam Minister, do you guarantee the indexation of the Social Energy Fund's resources beyond 2021? Are the current resources of the Social Energy Fund sufficient? In this debate, we have already warned that the freeze on indexation is not enough for the Energy Poverty Platform to provide enough budget for the OMCWs. Especially in these covid times there are more and more people knocking on the OCMW's. How many resources will there be? Will you adjust the indexation mechanism itself so that it would be more consistent with current electricity and gas prices and reflect rising poverty? How do you see the link between the extension of the social tariff and the social energy fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u96	Thank you, Mr Warmous, for your questions. It has been about a year since Parliament's committee took the initiative to index resources for the Social Energy Fund. That was indeed after the Platform Against Energy Poverty at the King Baudouin Foundation, a platform that had raised the alarm of the various actors, both the poverty associations and the suppliers. That was first for the year 2020, Mr Warmoes, and then for the year 2021. In this connection, I refer to the warning given by the CREG, not only in spring, but also last week, that the funds in the dormant fund will be exhausted. But, step by step, I won't be making any statements about things for a year from now. You have also read in my policy paper that it is the government's ambition to bring more force into social energy policy. Today, there is sometimes a fundage of policy. We have our social energy funds, we have the social fuel oil fund and then there is the 115 million euro that we have allocated to the OCMWs under the first lockdown. Furthermore, Mr Lalieux, responsible for poverty and OCMWs, with whom I had an interesting meeting, drew my attention to the fact that, among other things, the EUR 115 million is under-utilised. For this reason, the government has also taken the extension. In our social energy policy, we have an immense task to ensure that policies are more effective, and that the resources that we free up also reach the people. That's where I'll make the bridge to what you're asking, the relationship between one and the other. The extension of the social tariff was the way in which the government could act most quickly. One in five Belgians can't pay his bill. The covid crisis only increases the problems, but we also have the resources we have. That is why enlargement for one year was a conscious choice of government. It gives me and my colleague, Mr Dermagne, the opportunity to start working on social energy policy and to find an answer as to whether there are sufficient resources to meet the needs and whether the funds are being properly spent, given the increasing energy poverty. These legitimate questions must be answered in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u97	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, for the explanatory statement and for your answer to my supplementary question. With the PVDA, of course, we welcome the extension of the social tariff. It is a shame that in a country like Belgium, which is one of the most developed countries in the world, one in five people still live in energy poverty. This also proves that energy poverty is still a structural problem. I take note of the government's will to tackle that problem. At the moment, of course, everything remains rather vague. I'll stay after your answer to my hunger. You did not say that you would index the fund. You have said that the resources must reach the people. That is why the OMCWs need to have sufficient resources at all levels of activity or activity at municipal level, which are in the first line. I look forward to your next plans to tackle the energy poverty in our country in a truly rigorous manner, because it is unworthy of humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u98	Mr President, may I also refer to the answer I gave to similar questions earlier in this sitting? All madness, Mr Warmoes, you are asking whether the CREG is currently able to adequately protect the consumer, but perhaps Parliament itself can ask the CREG if it believes that it has sufficient power? The judgment concerned the fact that the transmission system must be owned by the transmission system operator at 100% and that the regulatory authority must take binding decisions independently. However, this was mainly about effective competition and was therefore mainly an aspect of the BMA, i.e. how the powers of the CREG relate to the powers of the BMA, and about the core powers of the CREG, in particular the tariff competence. On the next steps in the dossier, I have just explained that we will bring the legislation into line with the legislation more quickly than the legal procedure has taken. I also said earlier that we should come to Parliament in any case with the transposition of the Clean Energy Package and that my administration is currently considering whether we can do both together: if we come to the transposition of the Directive, we will at the same time comply with the Court of Justice's ruling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic312x.u99	Madam Secretary, I take note of your answer. I believe that this has dealt with all my questions.
