ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u1	Colleagues, it's exactly 2:00 p.m. and I suggest we get started. In life a lot of time is lost sometimes by those who come on time. I'd like to disprove that. I am addressing the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, who will be able to provide his introduction from a distance, in full compliance with the agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, I am actually more of an occasional chairman today because I myself am in the transition to tomorrow with the replacement of the presidency. All this is not so important, but they have asked to observe the honours, which of course I like to do. I come from the same province as Mr Timmermans. That's what we have in common. I would also like to point out that, in this period of corona and the pandemic that afflicts us, we must continue to place the issue of climate at the heart of all our agendas, both socio-economic and political, and throughout the world. The European Climate Agenda has not stood still. The European Green Deal is being discussed in full in the European Parliament. The debates have shown that a majority of MEPs want to increase the ambitions of the European climate law of the European Commission. Internal discussions in the European Council therefore announce themselves. I am not speaking on behalf of the government, of course, but I can only see what is written in the coalition agreement - soutient résolument les ambitions européennes. In order to carry out a climate policy, measures must be taken in a multitude of areas falling within the competence of the federated entities and the federal level in Belgium. However, since climate and climate challenges do not have borders, dialogue and consultation should be carried out in accordance with each other's respective competences. As in the past, the interparliamentary climate dialogue with its work aims to build a bridge between the policies of the Länder and those of the federal government. Majorities have been formed at all policy levels. That's a statement. The coalition agreements have been approved. The governments are working. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is high time that the Belgian Parliament actively contributed to the realisation of the European and international climate agenda. I would like to invite our distinguished guest today, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Green Deal, Mr Timmermans, to speak for his speech. I will then give the floor to the various delegation leaders for a first round of questions. After Mr Timmermans' answers, a second round of questions will then be held on the basis of what we know in our country as the D'hondt system. However, Mr Timmermans must leave us at 3.30 p.m. at the latest. We shall therefore respect this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u2	Mr President, let me begin by saying that we are both from the same province, a province split by a border that we do not want to see, which is why we are working to make it feel as little as possible, even in times of corona. Secondly, allow me to thank you and your colleagues for the hospitality that my family and I have been enjoying for six years now in Belgium, in Flanders, and we hope that we can continue this pleasure, particularly in the education of our school children, for which we are very grateful. I would also like to congratulate the teachers in Flanders, where our children go to school. Mr President, in the times in which we are living, it is logical that people do not think primarily about the climate, although the problem is still present. Those who are afraid not to make it to the end of the month do not, of course, have the end of humanity as the first concern, because those concerned think above all about how they get through the month, preferably healthy. At the same time, all the studies we are conducting show that the climate crisis is still very high on the agenda of all the citizens in all the Member States. As politicians, as we are together today, we have the task of ensuring that the promise of climate neutrality made by 2050 is fulfilled by all the leaders of all the Member States of the European Union. That is what we are achieving, including by entering into dialogue, as we are doing today. National parliaments, and state parliaments in federal states, are very important for the creation of the necessary support to achieve this goal. There is a link between the crises we are dealing with today: the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis, the pandemic, also in the midst of an industrial revolution that can turn everything upside down. That's what we have to do. We don't have time to waste. The effects of climate change are already clear. You just have to think about last summer's drought. Every summer the drought gets worse. We have also had to deal with the risk of water shortage here in Tervuren, close to the grape region. Last week we saw terrible emergency situations in northern Italy and France. The urgency cannot be denied. We have to act while we still can. That's what happens at a temperature rise of one degree. If the rise in temperature would go through one and a half degrees, then we will no longer be able to control, control or reverse a number of developments. The costs will therefore become astronomically high. If we do it right and fast and invest in a sustainable future, then we are responsiblely engaged and we also control costs. It would be totally wrong to pursue a recovery policy that invests massively in a dirty economy, which in the long term has no chance of providing jobs. That would be a very irresponsible policy. We collectively have the task of making our citizens aware of this. Our main concern now goes to health and work, but it has to be work that will be there in five or ten years. The money we now collectively as Europeans, in the form of impressive solidarity, and for which Europe is taking up capital markets, must be well spent, because our children and grandchildren will have to repay it. That is why we want to give them a good and sustainable economy and a sustainable society. We must now send out clear signals to citizens and businesses. Europe is sending a clear signal with the Green Deal, the climate law and the Next Generation EU recovery package. This is also how we show international leadership. It's followed by others, too. See the announcement by Chinese leader Xi Jinping two weeks ago that China also wants to be carbon neutral by 2060. From the beginning of the crisis, this has been driven at the highest level. We also see that we will have to get out of the crisis through the path of a green and digital transition and a path that increases Europe's resilience. The consensus, including as regards climate neutrality by 2050, is encouraging and is also an important signal for European industry. I saw a number of people representing that business in another meeting this morning. They ask for clarity, a direction and a consistent policy so that they can adapt to it. The debate must now be about how we are going to do this and how we are going to shape the policy in an efficient and just way. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have also clearly understood the direction to be followed by their economies. They sometimes come from very far and often have a much more difficult starting position than the Western European countries, but the dynamics of the companies there, including in a country like Poland, really make me feel optimistic. The West cannot afford to rest on its laurels. It is happening quickly there and we must go along with that pace or improve it. There are also interesting developments in the South. Portugal, for example, is a small country with great ambitions to become climate neutral. The hydrogen economy is taking off there. Following the climate law in early March and the proposals for the multiannual framework and recovery plan, the Commission proposed last month to bring the CO2 reduction target across Europe to -5%. It's ambitious, but it's necessary. It is realistic and even beneficial if we do it right. This is clear from our impact study. It is necessary because with the current targets we would only reduce CO2 emissions by 60% by 2050 instead of 100 %. That's really not enough. The objective of a 55% reduction is realistic and not taken out of the air. The study we have carried out has given a very detailed account of the costs and benefits. This study shows that higher targets are economically feasible. These goals will also bring benefits, such as good health thanks to clean air in cities and villages. If we change the economy now and focus on the circular economy and the clean industry, we will really become world leaders and we can export it. If Europe could produce green steel, the rest of the world would want to follow it. That green steel could be there in five to seven years. However, I would like to make it clear that this transition will be incredibly complicated. It will be difficult, heavy, difficult and expensive, but less difficult, less heavy, less difficult and less expensive than if we do nothing. Let's always be very honest about that. In some sectors, there are three areas in which we urgently need to work, including Belgium. Our study shows that in housing, transport and agriculture it is getting pretty spicy to tackle it. What is striking in the cost-benefit analysis is that the costs for industry, although high, are to be considered. This is because of the emissions trading system. In the meantime, this is working well, has proved to be crisis-proof and is now becoming increasingly international. In particular, it is the social consequences for our citizens, such as the energy bill for houses, or the price of petrol at the pump, which we should be afraid of. The COVID-19 crisis is causing enormous social pain worldwide. People who are already not wide are the hardest hit. We need to make sure that doesn't happen to us in the transition. Colleagues, to say it in Molière's language, it is a just transition that will be the key. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of the development and requalification of workers to support a successful, fair and socially equitable transition. This is my greatest concern. A mechanic who repairs your current car is not qualified to maintain your future electric car. We must actively prepare for tomorrow's jobs. Second, energy efficiency policies are crucial. Low-income households bear a proportionately higher burden in terms of heating and fuel expenditures than more affluent households. Distributional impacts will therefore have to be addressed. This can be done by using part of the auction revenues under the ETS. During the week, the Commission will present a strategy for the renovation. Everywhere in Europe, the desire is to embark on a wave of renovations of public and private buildings. While increasing renovation rates is a challenge, renovation reduces energy bills and can alleviate energy insecurity, which is a real risk. The challenge is considerable. Buildings account for 40% of energy consumption in Europe, while the annual rate of renovation of the housing stock ranges from 0.4 to 1.2% in the Member States. This rate will have to at least double in order to achieve the objectives in terms of energetic efficiency and climate. We must target the renovation of the homes of the less affluent people and control the impact of our heating and electricity bills. The European Investment Bank is committed and working with us on this enormous challenge. I am calling on everyone here to find solutions that are applicable locally across Europe. This week, the Commission will also present an analysis of each Member State's National Energy-Climate Plan. I do not want to anticipate the analysis, but it is clear that, for non-ETS sectors, the 2020 target will not be achieved. However, I would like to congratulate Belgium on its internal energy market, its high level of electricity interconnections, its excellent regional cooperation and its energy cooperation in the North Sea. However, much remains to be done in terms of energy efficiency and renewable energy. It is clear that this is an area where greater efforts will be needed. The European funds and the strategy for next week will surely help you. Belgium cannot afford to miss the ecological transition. With its ports, its position as global leader in the circular economy and waste management, its dynamic SMEs, it is very well placed to accelerate the transition. This is an investment for the future. Sustainable mobility, for example, or renewable energy, hydrogen or renovations, have significant potential for job creation. I am therefore pleased to see that the new federal government strongly supports the Green Pact and the objective of making the European Union climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. Of course, this is a huge challenge that will require massive public investment and increased efforts to direct private capital towards climate and environmental action. These investments are also an opportunity to place the country and the whole of Europe firmly on a new path of sustainable growth. It is also a question of economic survival in the globalized world of tomorrow, which will necessarily evolve in the same direction. It is better to be the first than to wait for technology to develop elsewhere. In addition, we would only be taking over and we would not have control over these technologies. Crucial in all this, will be your cooperation between the different Regions and the federal level. I wish you every success in this beautiful adventure of preparing the future of our children and grandchildren. We do not do this for ourselves; we do this for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u3	We have agreed that the various leaders of the delegations will take the floor for a very limited speaking time. I wrote down a minute and a half. I know from experience how difficult it is to have that speaking time respected. I shall first give the floor to Mr Muyters from the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u4	Mr President, Mr Timmermans, thank you for your speech and for your support. I have one question with regard to the 2030 targets. Will there be tools for achieving these objectives cost-effectively? I can imagine that one European country can achieve its targets more easily or achieve a 5% reduction in emissions more easily than another. Will there be mechanisms to ensure that the 2030 targets can be achieved in the most cost-effective way across Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u5	Sehr geehrter Herr Vizepräsident, lieber Frans, in weniger als 24 Stunden können wir jetzt zweimal über den Green Deal reden, weil wir morgen in dem Ausschuss der Regionen uns ebenfalls damit beschäftigen. Das ist ein deutliches Zeichen dafür, wie wichtig die Politik des Green Deals für die einzelnen Regionen in Europa ist. In einem anderen Leben haben wir uns beide mal mit dem Subsidiarität beschäftigt. Ich glaube, dass die hier gerade ein besonders interessantes Feld liefert, um diese aktive Subsidiarität umzusetzen. Deshalb möchte ich fragen, inwieweit die Kommission ganz besonders ihr Augenmerk auf die Zusammenarbeit mit den lokalen und regionalen Gebietskörperschaften bei der Umsetzung des Green Deals richtet. Welche konkreten Erwartungen hat die Kommission an Regionen, und insbesondere an Regionen mit Gesetzgebung, wie die Gemeinschaften und Regionen in Belgien? Vielen dank. Auch ich habe versucht, in meiner Redezeit zu bleiben.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u6	Totally. We'll have time. I give the floor to Mr Roberti of the Brussels delegation, who will replace Mr Madrane.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u7	Mr President, on behalf of the Brussels Parliament, I would like to thank Mr Timmermans for his presence and the services of the House for organizing this meeting. As I have little time, I would like to ask a question about the compatibility of international treaties with climate objectives. I am thinking in particular of the Energy Charter Treaty, which was concluded at another time to preserve investments in fossil fuels and which contains an ISDS clause (Investor-State Dispute Settlement). According to my analysis, climate change poses a real threat to climate issues. Indeed, it is an opportunity to tackle measures taken by States to protect the environment in terms of energy for consumers. So, Mr Timmermans, how will the Commission be able to move forward on the ground of the renegotiation of this Treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u8	Mr Timmermans, on behalf of the Wallonia Parliament, I would also like to thank you for your presence and your presentation. The fight against global warming is a great challenge for humanity. At this stage, the Walloon targets aim at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030; the progressive implementation of a functional ecological network – notably through the establishment of 4,000 hedgerows and the creation of 1,098 hectares of protected areas to ensure the conservation of natural space (biodiversity guidance note No. 360), in order to halt the decline of biodiversity before 2030 –; the fight against drought, in particular by vegetating cities; support for the relocation of food by means of a call for projects, etc. Wallonia is therefore preparing to update the National Energy-Climate Plan, while working on the adoption of the new Air-Climate-Energy Plan (PACE) for 2021. The European recovery plan of 750 billion is certainly ambitious. However, we have to put down several important flats. First, the uncommitted money within a relatively short period of three years will be lost for the transition. It would, of course, be useful if those amounts were re-incorporated into the budget, for example, in order to feed into a special transitional fund. Finally, 37% of this plan must be transition oriented, but only 25% is earmarked for the multiannual financial framework. Why so little investment in the latter? Indeed, the long multi-annual framework will allow Member States to better plan their climate action. Finally, what position do you have in the European Parliament's legislative resolution of 16 September 2020, which calls for new own resources for the European Union to finance the transition? The European Commission is the only body empowered to take a legislative initiative. How does she position herself?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u9	As a newly promoted delegation leader, I would like to ask a short question of a different order. Mr Vice-President, assuming that we are able to live up to all these commitments in the European Union on yet tough objectives, I would like to ask you to look beyond the borders of the European Union as well. How will you encourage other large countries and trading blocs to go in the same direction? What levers does the European Union have in its hands?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u10	Mr President, we will talk to all the Member States as part of the preparation of the concrete proposals in all the areas that we will be presenting in June next year, in order to identify the areas in which they can make the best progress. This will vary considerably from one Member State to another. Let me give you one concrete example. In some countries, the share of renewable energy in the energy mix is already over 50%, while in some other countries the share of coal in the energy mix is still above 80%. That great difference will therefore lead to a very different focus on the transition, which is needed to achieve climate neutrality. This also means that, in a country such as Poland, a country which is more than 80% dependent on coal is going to have to accompany exit from coal, with European support through the so-called Just Transition Fund. However, exiting coal has a disproportionate positive impact on reducing emissions. So there is also a lot of profit to be made. Sometimes that will also have to be done by an intermediate step. In Poland, heating homes with coal will not be able to switch immediately to fully renewable energy, and in the meantime natural gas will also play a role there. We must accompany it in such a way that the infrastructure built for natural gas must also be made suitable for the use of hydrogen in the post-natural gas phase. In this way, we will have to look at what we can do in each Member State. Belgium, for example, already has a major advantage over many other countries in terms of the circular economy. There is much to be gained from this for the Belgian economy, but the climate gains are, of course, greater in those countries which have not yet reached this stage and which have to make a larger shift. Belgium can therefore specialise in certain sectors and since the instruments are used cost-effectively. Focusing on what ports are doing, on what industry is doing, on what the energy network is doing, I believe that this is a sensible approach, but we will also be able to have a discussion in June 2021, on a subject-by-subject basis, which we will be proposing for each Member State, because our impact assessment will enable the Member State to see the impact of this issue on that particular Member State and what profits can be derived from it. Karl-Heinz Lambertz asked for subsidiarity. I just said it's about isolating homes, school buildings and government buildings. The renovation wave must be done locally, with local authorities. That's what they're gonna do. Whether it's the renovation wave, the handling of waste, the building of networks locally or the installation of charging stations for electric cars, for all these subjects the local and regional authorities are desperately needed. If it is up to the European Commission, we will also try to cooperate directly with those authorities where their powers are concerned, and we are counting on supporting other governments, whether federal or national, in countries where there is no federal structure, to facilitate us in it. We sometimes meet a little resistance to this, not in Belgium, but in some other countries. We can only be effective if we are allowed to cooperate directly with all governments. In my view, this is also an expression of subsidiarity: to place responsibility where it lies in the relationship between the various authorities and thereby achieve the best result for the citizens. On the Energy Charter Treaty, Mr Roberti, you are right. We must rethink the structure of this treaty. We are preparing the Commission's position on this, but it is absolutely clear that there can be no contradiction between what we want to achieve with this Treaty and the Green Pact. The charter must be synchronized with what we want to achieve through the Green Deal. We are busy preparing the arguments because I know very well that it will not be obvious to convince everyone to go in that direction. I shall inform you as soon as the Commission's position has been drawn up. We're still working on it. About the percentages I've seen, for Next Generation EU, it will be 37% for the climate and 20% for digital. As far as the multiannual budget is concerned, it is not 25% but 30%. Already there, the European Council has increased ambition. I believe that there will be an agreement on this point with the European Parliament. In fact, I really hope that there will be an agreement between the Council and the European Parliament shortly, because we have no time to waste. I fear that time will be wasted, because ratification will still have to be carried out in all national parliaments. We know very well how long it takes, especially in a country like mine that I know very well, where ratification takes some time. I come to the new own resources. Like the European Parliament, the Commission insists on the need for new own resources. I am convinced that this will help us in the climate transition. However, recovering the money we will need now will help us, as will the loans we will have. If we organise things at European level and we can really identify and clarify resources, so that we know that once they are entered into the European budget, they will be spent on the climate transition, I believe it is in everyone's interest. As regards relations with countries outside the European Union, I said in my introduction that Xi Jinping has now made a clear announcement for China. We will see in the five-year plans what this means in concrete terms, but I see that as a positive signal. We have worked hard on this. The Chinese don't want to stay behind. They were part of the success of Paris and want to remain part of the success. In the run-up to the Glasgow summit next year, it is good that the Chinese express that ambition. We will have to wait for the outcome of the elections in the US, which may make a big difference in climate policy. If the Americans would once again develop the ambition at federal level to take on a leadership role, it will undoubtedly have an effect on the rest of the world, starting with the Chinese. They certainly do not want to be left behind. Then European leadership can really have a flywheel effect. If the current President is re-elected in the US, we will have to continue to work very hard with the states at sub-federal level, with the American companies that are massively embracing this reality, as European companies do, and want to move quickly towards climate neutrality. Of course, it does matter whether the federal government in the United States wants to go that way or not. I don't make a secret of that. By the way, in other parts of the world, you also see positive developments, as in South Africa, which stated that you want to be climate neutral in 2050. This is a huge task for an African country such as South Africa, which is still so dependent on coal. It clearly shows that climate change is coming very hard in Africa and that everything also wants to make its own contribution to keeping climate neutrality and the rise in temperature below one and a half degrees. Finally, I would like to say one thing about this. One of the reasons why we, as the Commission, also want to stick to the 55% reduction until 2030 and not go with the European Parliament to a 60% reduction is because we believe that with 55% reduction Europe can be climate neutral first, by 2050 and, secondly, Europe provides a proportional share based on our stage of development. It is not the case that Europe should take over the burden of industrialised countries. They must also take responsibility. I think 55% is the right signal. It gives Europe a great deal of ambition, but it says to countries that are also industrialised that they must also do what is necessary. Then we come together where we want to be at the completion of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u11	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. We have agreed that, according to the strength of the political groups, the members who can take the floor will take the floor, so the N-VA Group will be the first to take the floor. The speaking time is the same as that of the delegation leaders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u12	Commissioner, our party will of course support the Green Recovery target, which is really needed during this corona pandemic. But in order for it to be worn by the public, we need to ensure that the Green Recovery and the Green Deal are balanced, targeted and bottom-up. When we talk about targeting, I think we are on the same page. It is about prioritizing certain sectors and achieving the greatest reduction with the lowest costs. When we talk about balance, I think there is a lot of work to be done to combine the yellow and green hoes. I wonder how you intend to implement this flexible approach, taking into account the technical feasibility and cost-efficiency of the various regions. Regarding bottom-up: 70 % of the cause but also 70 % of the solution, or perhaps even more, is a regional, a local jurisdiction. How do you intend to involve regional and local authorities more in the decision-making process, both on funding and on the burden sharing? Finally, I have a small edge note. You always talk about hydrogen, but you know very well that hydrogen is an energy carrier. Why isn't so much on carbon capture and storage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u13	I shall pass the floor to the Ecolo-Groen Group, to Mr Florent, at a distance for the Walloon Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u14	Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Timmermans for his presentation in favour of raising the necessary climate ambitions and to consider the environmental group as an ally. My question will concern the debate on CO2 taxation on the non-ETS sector. This is a consensus among many climate experts, economists, women and politicians who study climate policies, including recently the governor of the National Bank of Belgium who said that "without CO2 tax, we would not do it". This tax is necessary if we are to structure the decarbonization of our economy. I would stress from the outset that, in my speech, I call for a carbon tax, not just an additional tax, which includes the allocation of revenue to be directed towards the low carbon transition and compensation for low wages. You yourself stressed, in the preamble, the need for a just and solidarity-based climate action. Will the European Commission therefore initiate European legislation to this end and encourage Member States to introduce carbon taxation on the non-ETS sector, but also possibly a tax on entry into the common market in order to protect this market? More specifically, what about the Energy Directive 2003/96, which prohibits the taxation of kerosene for aviation? You have publicly positioned yourself in the media on this subject on several occasions. Will you remove this social injustice and this obstacle to climate action, which is the inability of Member States to introduce kerosene taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u15	Mr President, my speech will be very brief, because we do not have much time. I will go straight to the point with two very specific questions. I think one of the really interesting aspects of the Green Deal is the carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders. It will be difficult to think about the transition if we do not do so by also thinking about globalization. Some argue not for demonization – even if others do – but for post-globalization. So rethinking our trade in a global market in the light of the decarbonisation of our economies seems important to me and this carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders is very interesting in this respect. Could you clarify how you are considering its implementation and what would be the perceived impact on the evolution of prices of goods and services for consumers? I know that in the United States, for example, they are looking at the same kind of mechanism, but indeed, the impact on inflation and therefore, the access of the less affluent consumers to certain goods is a question. At the same time, do you envisage the implementation of this mechanism in connection with a real policy of reindustrialization, which seems to me to be the natural corollary of this type of mechanism? Finally, what is the link between the transition to a sustainable food system and the revision of the common agricultural policy (CAP)?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u16	Mr President, Mr Timmermans, in 2050 the Kingdom of God must descend on Europe in the form of climate neutrality. We also know the divine instruments, namely the European climate objectives and the Green Deal, of which you are somewhat the embodiment in communication. Are there any guarantees that it will cost the public little? Are there any guarantees on a socially just Green Deal? After all, it is about a transformation of our way of life, living and working. Will the social divide not increase? How expensive will it be to isolate or remodel a house? How expensive will new homes be in houses that, for example, are no longer connected to the gas grid? Is there any guarantee that energy and, in particular, electricity will not become more expensive when maximum use will be made of renewable production and when fossil resources in Europe will be phased out? Will further free allowances be withdrawn from the market for the reform and expansion of the ETS? Will road transport and heating of buildings, for example, be brought under the ETS rules? Is there any guarantee in this respect that the citizens' energy bill will not rise? The whole discussion about a CO2 price or tax or carbon price is particularly delicate. How can it be ensured that the money flows back to the people and that many things do not become more expensive? In my group's view, many people, like the Eurosceptic and Eurocritical groups in the European Parliament, rightly question a free climate policy. It has already been mentioned by my colleagues from the N-VA. In what sense does the specific context of densely populated and industrial energy-intensive regions, such as Flanders, be taken into account? Finally, can climate neutrality be achieved without nuclear energy in Europe? Mr Timmermans, a small majority but still a majority of the Dutch Parliament wants the government to do at least a market consultation on nuclear energy: under what conditions does the market in the Netherlands want to invest in nuclear power plants? What public support is needed? How do you see the future of nuclear energy in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u17	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, the loss of biodiversity and the very rapid evolution of ecosystems are two of the greatest threats facing our society in the decades to come. Biodiversity is essential. A healthy ecosystem helps filter our air and water, helps maintain climate balance, transforms waste into resources, pollinates and fertilizes crops, and, subject to responsible and sustainable management, can provide infinite resources for human needs. In the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2030, the main elements are to create protected areas representing at least 30% of the land and 30% of the seas in Europe, but also to restore degraded terrestrial and marine ecosystems throughout Europe. Mr Vice-President, Brussels is the seat of the European institutions, the capital of Europe and therefore has an exemplary role to play. In your opinion, what additional role should the Brussels Region play in biodiversity? What is the role of the European Union and, in particular, of the European Commission in the context of the loss of biodiversity and the collapse of ecosystems? What is the European Commission doing to protect biodiversity? How can we better involve our Regions in this Strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u18	Then I come to Mr Bothuyne for the CD&V Group. I think he's remotely present via Zoom, but we don't see him. You have not lost your turn, Mr Bothuyne; I shall now move on to the PVDA-PTB Group, because Mr D'Haese is present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u19	Thank you, Mr Timmermans, for your explanation. Last year, tens of thousands of young people in all corners of the European continent took to the streets for an ambitious climate policy. I can say that Belgium was at the origin of this and I am very pleased that the pressure of young people has worked and that Europe is effectively raising its ambitions today. I have been involved in many demonstrations, where two things were actually asked: an ambitious and a socially just climate policy. The question is whether today's ambition is sufficient, because science is clear: to have a good chance of effectively controlling global warming, we need at least a 60% reduction by 2030. Then why does the European Commission insist on the 55% reduction? You have just explained this a little bit, but I think that 60% is really necessary and Europe is below that bar. The elephant in the chamber is above all what measures will be taken for the major polluters in Europe. In recent years, since 2014, emissions in Europe have stagnated. However, in recent years, the large polluters have barely achieved a reduction of 1.6 % per year, whereas this should normally be about tenfold. That is not surprising, because the major polluters are covered by the emissions trading system, which means that if they fail to meet their objectives, they can then buy them off by purchasing clean air elsewhere. Meanwhile, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are once again in favour of introducing green taxes, ecotaxes, carbon taxes, and I don't know. These are ecotaxes for ordinary people, while the big companies can buy off their responsibilities. Bearing in mind the climate youth, why do you not stop the antisocial, green taxes and go for binding standards for the major polluters to ensure effectively that they meet their targets? I'm finishing up, because I see I've gone over time thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u20	I'm glad you can see that. I do not see Mr Schiltz. We do not normally work with alternates, Mr Leysen, but I know your enthusiasm. I'll make an exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u21	There is such a thing as management by objectives, but as an entrepreneur I love management by doing even more. The climate challenge is great. This means that, on the one hand, there is a need for a government that is regulatory and regulatory and, on the other hand, citizens and consumers who adapt their behaviour and ensure that demand changes in the market. Last but not least, companies not only have to adapt their production processes, but also innovate. A lot of efforts are already being made by companies, especially large ones. I'm thinking of the energy players and the big consultancy companies. Mr Vice-President, is there sufficient attention in the various countries to the motivation and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which can also be large in large countries? They must also have sufficient access to the resources made available by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u22	Thank you for your explanation, Mr Timmermans. Congratulations on the new Green Deal. It is a strong agreement, which continues to focus on these difficult times. I have three questions for you. Firstly, the hydrogen problem has already been raised by the N-VA group. It also focuses on this, but isn't that focus too early, at a time when there is still a lot of renewable energy to be added? We know that for the production of hydrogen there is still a lot of loss of efficiency. Isn't that focus early? Isn't it too big? Secondly, internationally, almost every environmental economist makes a plea for the introduction of carbon taxes. In the Belgian coalition agreement there is a budget-neutral instrument. One thinks in the direction of a carbon price, combined with a carbon dividend, that can be a very social instrument. This has also been demonstrated in several countries, which have already introduced it today. How do you view this as the EU Commissioner? Do you think it is right that Member States should be at the forefront of this issue, or do you think there could be a general European initiative? Thirdly, the Flemish interest seemed to warn against the bill of climate policy. I wonder whether there is a view of the cost of climate-skeptical policies, a policy where we would do little or nothing. What would that cost to the economies of our continent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u23	Mr De Beukelaer of the CDH is not present. Nor do I have any speakers from DéFI. Mr Bothuyne is still not here. Then Mr Timmermans can reply again to all the questioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u24	The European Commission certainly agrees with a balanced, targeted and bottom-up approach. The regions, given the different responsibilities, can also do a great deal about this. In the case of housing, this may include not only renovation of existing houses, but also regulation of new buildings. It is increasingly possible to build climate-neutrally. There is innovation in materials, more wood, emission-free cement and other building materials are used. That's all bottom-up. Many local authorities across Europe are keen to switch to emission-free public transport as soon as possible. This is also the subject of discussion within Flemish politics. That's bottom-up, too. A major contribution can be made to this. This will only work if we all pull the same weight and not if it is imposed by Europe. We can facilitate, coordinate and ensure that a general European objective is implemented as efficiently as possible, but this can only be achieved if all levels are involved. One of the biggest challenges is to ensure that everyone feels part of this and that everyone is also involved and sees that it brings benefits to the community as a whole, but also to individuals. CCS is a technology that was initially tested on coal, to capture carbon. It turned out to be incredibly complicated, difficult to do. Moreover, coal has been priced out of the market. There's no future in coal. CCS does, however, have a potential future in other areas, and this is also being worked on. The decarbonisation of natural gas by CCS does not look bad as possible technology, especially for coastal countries where the carbon extracted from the energy carrier can also be stored. In this way, it does not pose any risk to the environment. Those are interesting developments, aren't they? We will see progress on that point. There are also companies involved in Antwerp. Of course, we need to make sure that the price of carbon is part of our economic logic. Traditionally, the factors of production that are taken into account in our economy are capital and labour. Two other factors must now be taken into account, so to speak in the same way: the weight of our behavior on the planet – it is at this level that we put a price on carbon – and the data-based economy. Most citizens share data that is of great value, without knowing it, and some industries, particularly the U.S., greatly benefit from it. In addition, these are industries which, very often, do not pay taxes or taxes. These new factors of production must therefore be taken into account in the economic calculation of a company. In this context, a realistic price for carbon, which does not exist today, will gradually have to be given. We believe that an instrument can be used at European level. I am thinking here of extending the ETS to other areas such as building and transport. The Commission is analysing the issue. But there are also other ways to do this, as other Member States do. I will share my thoughts on the matter with you a little later. I was very clear about kerosene. You have to be tighter with aviation. Maritime transport must also and above all be put into the system. At the aviation level, more discipline is needed. There is also a need to push aviation towards fuels that do not have carbon footprints. It is not for nothing that Airbus is developing three prototypes of aircraft that operate with hydrogen. In my view, we must give a very clear perspective on this matter. For this reason, one of the instruments I really believe is the introduction of a kerosene tax. It is very difficult to understand whether a citizen who takes fuel for his car and a citizen who takes the bus or train pay a tax, whereas that is not the case for the plane. I do not understand how this way of doing things can be explained. So there are several ways to put a price on the fuel used in aviation, but my preference goes to a kerosene tax. This is compatible with taxes that exist elsewhere. I therefore insist on this point. We will necessarily need agreements on carbon adjustment mechanisms at borders (carbon border adjustment mechanisms). We are preparing them in the Commission, but we must be very specific. My argument is always the same: I want to be able to defend the fact that we are taking this step. Why? International partners are told: "You have signed the Paris Agreement. What are you doing to achieve the Paris Agreement? If you do nothing, the European Union has the right to protect its industry and to avoid carbon leakage." This will still require a mechanism at the borders. But this mechanism will have to be targeted at specific sectors. We cannot introduce a comprehensive instrument, because we would be open to criticism from our partners, the World Trade Organization and others. This must be targeted, perhaps on steel, perhaps on cement. The sectors are being analysed to determine it, but that is how it will have to be organized. Without a doubt, we will need this mechanism. It is essential. There were also questions about taxation. There, European competences are very limited. But if we do not see in the process of this transition that taxation will have to be reviewed at all levels, even at European level, to the extent that we are competent, we have not understood anything. We're not just in a climate crisis. We're in the middle of an industrial revolution. It will therefore be necessary to redistribute the resources that we have in common. It's always been like this. If we don't, there will be a small group of winners and a big group of losers. That is what we must avoid in our society. Once again, European competences are extremely limited, but no politician at any level will be able to avoid a debate on the taxation of the future. We are in a situation of redistribution. This will apply to all of our societies. The question is only: in what way will the policy want to intervene? This is still the raison d'être of politics, creating a fair, just society, etc., on the basis of own political ideas, which differ between the parties. But avoiding this issue would fall short of the interests of our society and our citizens. There will also be a need for a policy of re-industrialisation, i.e. to increase European resilience. The European Commission has analysed a lot of industrial sectors. These analyses show that there is a huge need for restructuring everywhere: automobiles, steel, construction, etc. Nevertheless, we must start from the concept, from the need to strengthen our production chain, and also from the need to strengthen European resilience to increasing global competition. With regard to the CAP, unfortunately, the European Parliament has decided to postpone the reform of the CAP by two years. It's a waste of time. That's too bad. Agriculture is one of the most difficult sectors to reform, but it must be done in the interests of farmers. It will be the sector that will suffer the most if nothing is done to stop climate change. But we still have to meet the European citizens' demand to have food that is recognised, to have labelling that clearly says what is in this food, where it comes from, that there is no connection with deforestation, etc. An effort must be made. At the same time, we must make a proposal to our farmers that gives them a future, which they have great doubts about today. That is why they are concerned about the reforms. But the "farm-to-fork" project that we have presented is still a framework within which we could give a perspective to agriculture. Are there any guarantees? What guarantees are there in life? We live in a time of fundamental changes in society. These are tectonic changes. I believe that as politicians, wherever we stand ideologically or politically, we all have a responsibility on the basis of our ideas to guide this change as best we can for our citizens, so that everyone gets the best out of it. This kind of change always involves costs. These costs are of a transitional nature or of a permanent nature, depending on how those changes are managed. Every previous industrial revolution has shown this and now there is also a climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis. This means costs for society, but how expensive it will be will have to be demonstrated by the precise proposals that the European Commission will make. They will all be accompanied by an impact assessment in which we can see the consequences. That is open to discussion and criticism. Anyone can contribute to this. I am convinced that we can do this in a socially just way so that we can get everyone along. In the end, it's very simple for me, too. If a substantial minority of the population believes that this is not in their interest, then it will not happen. So we all have an interest in getting everyone involved in this. Let me make one thing clear. We can already see what happens at one degree of temperature rise. Imagine if we let all this go and there will be a temperature increase of two degrees and the situation is completely out of control. What are the costs of devastating storms or droughts, so that agriculture no longer succeeds? What are the costs of the disappearance of pollinators, such as bees, and other animals that are essential to agriculture? What are the costs of storms, which cause the top layer of the agricultural soil to disappear over and over again? What are the costs of flooding and pandemics, which will certainly occur more often? These costs are incredibly higher than the transition costs that we will have to incur, but no one can tell people that this will cost nothing and that this will not cause any problems. This becomes incredibly complicated and anyone who claims otherwise is fooling themselves or trying to fool other people. Then there was a question about nuclear power. In the country I know best, it is now a very popular theme. It is an advantage when one is older, I can remember very well the time of "Current energy, no thanks," that was when I was a student. That was almost a religious movement. Now there seems to be some kind of counter-reformation, which says "Current energy now, immediately and without any discussion." I'd like to warn you about both. The European Commission is technology neutral. Nuclear energy has the huge advantage that it doesn't produce emissions. It will always be part of emission-free energy production, including in the long term. Given the development of renewable energy prices, nuclear energy is becoming increasingly expensive, relatively. In addition, nuclear energy continues to have the problem of the need for a raw material and of waste afterwards. These are all matters on which there is also a very large price tag. So try to take as rational a position as possible. Look at it rationally: if nuclear energy is advantageous and reliable and is still advantageous in proportion to the price, the European Commission is not against it. In fact, we will do everything we can to make it as safe as possible. But the choice is up to the countries themselves, not the European Commission. As I have already said, we are not talking enough about biodiversity loss. We risk losing a million species in the world and this would have a terrible effect on our health, on the planet and especially on agriculture and the climate. We still need to develop a strategy that incorporates... "Climate neutrality" also means "healthy environment". As a result, biodiversity must be protected. That is why we have developed this strategy. I count on the support of the Belgian Parliament and the Parliaments of the federated entities to support us in this effort. It's a strategy we need and we don't talk about enough. There will be an international conference in China to discuss it. There is a need to make our cities greener, to look at aquatic environments that are at risk, and to protect endangered species. We cannot afford to remain inactive. I am thinking in particular of Brussels. Of course, these are choices to make locally. It's not up to us to prescribe what to do. But when I see the demands of European cities, especially when I discuss them with the mayors, some things always come back. First, carbon-free public transport is a requirement everywhere. Secondly, the number of cycle paths must be greatly increased. It's a measure I like very much. We see it all over Europe. Thirdly, waste treatment needs to be better organised. Fourthly, it is necessary to make cities greener because air quality is a subject that can be found everywhere in large European cities. These are the priorities that are being taken up all over Europe and which, I believe, are applicable to the city of Brussels. Is the current ambition to achieve what we want to achieve satisfactory? Yeah, I think so. We've analyzed that in detail. I would like to make it quite clear that the advocates of a higher ambition for Europe take it a little too easily that other industrialised countries would have a slightly lower ambition. I don't want to accept that. Of course we must lead as Europe, but what good is it, with 9% of global emissions, if we lead, but no one follows us? In that case, we achieve far too little. We must therefore ensure that our ambition is sharper than that of others, but not so sharp that others turn off, because we must also keep the others in mind. I have just explained why I think that could work. Of course we have difficult discussions with industry, especially with the major polluters. This will lead to difficult decisions. As an example, I would like to mention the emission standards for cars, the things that we want from the chemical industry and the things that still have to be done in the steel sector, for example. I would add that most industries have understood that the current transformation is irreversible. Most industries want this transformation and are also willing to take the right steps, all the more so because all major investors worldwide have also made the switch. They are terrified that when they invest in the old economy, they will lose their money in five or six years' time, while it is now profitable to invest in the new economy. It is striking, even at current low energy prices, that investments in the renewable energy sector are many times higher than in the traditional energy sector. That says something about the cover that has been made. It is true that companies are making a lot of efforts. This also depends a little on the sectors and on the prospects. Very specifically, I would like to mention the SMEs. Many SMEs, throughout Europe, do not have the luxury that very large companies often have, namely look over decades. Many SMEs think of next month or perhaps next year and want to keep their people at work and survive for themselves. Talking to SMEs about long-term objectives is a luxury that they often cannot afford. We need to get out of that trap by offering SMEs a short-term perspective. Our renovation wave is one of the possible ways to involve SMEs in the substantial investment in the renovation of schools and other government buildings. This is good for SMEs, because SMEs are the local contractors and entrepreneurs who will carry out that work. In consultation with local authorities, we can also offer SMEs a perspective in this way. Moreover, this also leads us to call the experiences of the Juncker Plan InvestEU that can now be used. More than ever before, SMEs have been able to use capital through the Juncker Plan, which was not available to most SMEs for this purpose. The transition from SMEs to large banks and large institutions has thus become much smaller and the expansion of InvestEU can help us greatly in this area. There is absolutely not too much focus on hydrogen. The fact that hydrogen is now taking such a high flight, not only as an energy carrier, but also as an energy source, is good news. I can say a great deal about why, but I will stick to one thing: there are a lot of plans throughout the European Union to generate renewable energy, sun and wind, but very often it is generated in a place where that energy is not needed. Then one must store and transport that energy, but that transport is not always easy. Hydrogen is an energy carrier that can be transported at long distances and does not cause any energy loss. Of course one loses energy in conversion or electrolysis, but when wind and solar energy become as cheap as they seem to become, that energy loss is incalculable and hydrogen becomes interesting. With our hydrogen strategy between now and 2024 we want to be at 6 gigawatt capacity of green electrolysis. If we continue to argue about this, and we continue to do so, as most Member States now want, we will reach 40 gigawatts in 2030. If the neighbours in North Africa and Eastern Europe participate, we will be at 80 gigawatts in 2030, and that is already a serious contribution to the European energy mix. Member States may introduce a CO2 tax. This is not contrary to what we want in Europe. They can co-exist. Our ETS expansion and other measures we take may exist alongside national taxes. It is true that if ETS takes a high flight, it will be possible to assess whether a national CO2 tax is still needed at national level, but they do not contradict each other. They complement each other and it is up to the national authorities to consider whether or not this supplement is necessary. I've already said something about the cost of doing nothing. Moreover, I believe that it can be very instructive for the European Commission and for you to map out much more systematically the costs of doing nothing. We have not yet done enough, and I would like to do more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u25	I think those answers were very complete. We have 12 minutes left. Anyone who wishes to give a brief supplementary reply can do so, but the Vice-President will leave us at 3.30 p.m. as agreed. However, Parliament always has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u26	Thank you for your answers, Mr Timmermans. I'll come back to the bottom-up issue. You also spoke about subsidiarity. For example, for renovation or parts of mobility, the regions and sometimes the local level are responsible. However, I was talking not only about implementation, but also about decision-making on objectives and access to funding. That is why we are asking for bottom-up work. What's your answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u27	I have another question about the possible penalties or sanctions provided for by the Commission. Today, some Member States are no longer able to meet the target. What mechanism does the Commission have in place to remind Member States of their obligations and, if necessary, to sanction them if the increased target is not met?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u28	Thank you for your answers, Mr Timmermans. I would like to draw your attention to two other points. First of all, I don't want to go into too much technical detail, but it's not just numbers, it's about the future of the planet. The IPCC says that we need a reduction of at least 55% by 2030 to have two thirds chance to stay below two degrees Celsius. We do not yet talk about the one and a half degree celasius, which is now the objective. Europe must do more than that 55% reduction, 60%, not to compensate other industrialised countries, but just to compensate developing countries. So I do not agree with that reasoning. Europe should really go for a 60% reduction. That's what we need. Secondly, you say that every crisis requires the cost of society. Of course, that's a truth like a cow. All the previous crises cost a lot of money. This will also cost a lot of money, but the question is who will pay it. In all previous crises, the answer was always: the ordinary people, the working population. In order to have a basis for climate change, it is crucial to take a different approach this time. I therefore believe that binding standards are needed for the major polluters and massive public investment, not to redirect money to the private sector, as in 2008, but to invest in public infrastructure that makes people better. That's a call I absolutely wanted to make here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u29	Mr Timmermans, I do not think that anyone in this hemisphere, nor in the European Parliament, wants to do anything and let things go. As my colleague from PVDA just said, social concerns are very important. We need to get everyone with us. The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate Affairs will continue to monitor European work closely and we look forward with great interest to the climate objectives and the Green Deal that will become very concrete in your proposals to the Member States next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u30	Mr Vice-President, the last word is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u31	Mr President, thank you all for your contributions. I thought it was a very stimulating discussion. Should the Chamber need it, I am always prepared to have this discussion again when we are a little further into the process. This funding has, of course, been agreed at European level between all the Heads of Government and the Heads of State or Government. That is the way we discuss it in Europe. I would like to point out the unique situation in Belgium. When it comes to funding and direction in the Council, Belgium often sits there at the level of the Regions and not only at the federal level. In that respect, it is already reasonably bottom-up organised. However, we must try to bring as much consistency in policy as possible. Of course, it must be tailor-made by Member State and by region, but we must be able to share the objectives. The economies of scale that we can sometimes take out, such as the renovation wave, must be taken out. As far as fines and sanctions are concerned, I think the penalty lies in the fact that if the plans in the Next Generation EU do not meet the 37 % and 20 % criteria and if the MFF does not meet the 30 % criterion, funding will be missed. That in itself is a punishment that hurts. If countries make policies that go against the legislation we have aligned and which is binding on all countries, the Commission will not hesitate to respond to defaults. Above all, however, we should encourage countries to move in the right direction in a positive way. I insist that, based on our analysis, 55% is sufficient to achieve our objective of a maximum of one and a half degrees of temperature increase. Of course, we retain the flexibility to increase ambition over time, if the five-year review shows that it is not enough. It is clear from the UNF-triple C report that more can be demanded from other industrialised countries and regions than is currently required. In the developing countries, in other words the less industrialized countries, there is an enormous awareness. It's changing really fast. Moreover, these countries deserve strong support from us in terms of mitigation and adaptation as a result of the climate crisis. Africa, with the drought, the storm, the unpredictable climate and the locust plagues, is really entitled to our support to cope with the consequences. However, they all want a climate policy that leads them to climate neutrality and then we have to support them. I think that 55%, based on our analysis, is a responsible and feasible choice at the moment. Whoever's gonna pay it is always a fair question. That is a balance that will also have to be made by your parliaments, on the basis of your idea and your plans. It is about European policy, but it is also very much about regional policy and about national policy. There will have to be majorities for that. The bill will have to be paid. If groups do not feel heard and the bill is unfairly distributed, they will stand on the brake and the transition will not happen. Tragically, those who stand on the brakes will probably be the biggest victims if the transition doesn't happen. It is in your hands, in our hands or the transition is just. Let me make one thing clear. Those who can afford a lot, who can make wide choices, will always find themselves in a climate crisis. They can afford to live elsewhere, to take measures, to find another job and so on. It's like the people who can't go anywhere, who depend on where they live, who can't have another home, who are the most vulnerable in this huge challenge we face. My social concern is to make sure those people don't fish behind the net. Otherwise, this transition will only have negative consequences and will not be supported by the population. Given, even during this pandemic, the great support of the European population for responsible climate policy, to act together as Europeans to address the climate crisis, given the leading role young people have played in Belgium to get us this far, without Fridays for Future, there was no Green Deal, I can assure you, and given that these young people will continue to push us through the facts, I think we should take our responsibilities, in their interests, in our interests and in the interests of their children. Thank you again for your time and attention. I hope to see you again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-12-55-commissie-ic276x.u32	Mr Vice-President, on behalf of the committees and all the members: thank you very much. Thank you very much for this open exchange of views. We have taken good note of the fact that you have offered to do this again in the future. I do not know what period we will have to meet internally. We all certainly benefit from this. Dear French, thank you and see you soon, perhaps somewhere between Tongeren and Maastricht.
