ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that a number of ministers are absent, including the Prime Minister in Congo. I informed the Conference of Presidents yesterday. The questions addressed to the Prime Minister and other absent members of the government will be answered by other members of the government. Minister Muylle will, on behalf of the Prime Minister, answer questions about the dismissals at GSK. She also asked me to be the first to pass, in consultation with her colleagues, because she has to be in Namur at 4 p.m. I take it the Chamber can agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a real social earthquake struck Belgium, Wallonia, with the announcement of the company GSK to dismiss 720 people and put an end to 225 temporary contracts. This is, of course, a social tragedy. Our first thoughts go to the thousands of families that are directly affected, but also to the families of the subcontractors, of all the companies that are directly impacted by this GSK announcement. This is all the more dramatic as this announcement comes from a company that makes comfortable profits in Belgium and abroad, and has benefited from broad public financial support in recent years. Prioritizing short-term profit while dismissing workers and benefiting from broad public subsidies is an economic model that works on its head. It is an economic model that we, as environmentalists, strongly condemn. After this terrible fact, Madam Minister, we must take action. In the short term, in the framework of the Renault procedure which has just opened, together with your counterparts in the Walloon government, it will be necessary to meet with management and trade unions, and above all to do everything possible to limit to the maximum the number of people dismissed and to favour conversions where possible. Minister, what is your action plan on this matter? What's your timing? What's your calendar? What specific actions will you take in the coming hours and days? In the medium or longer term, important, ambitious legislative initiatives will have to be taken to further protect workers in this shocking situation. As far as we are concerned, we have tabled a text today on the extension of the Renault law to include subcontractors, which will be taken into consideration earlier and on which we would like your opinion. In any event, we believe that it is important to make progress on these theories that are dear to us. I look forward to your answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, today 9,000 workers have risen with the belly ball; 9,000 families are anxiously wondering who will be among the 720 victims of GSK's restructuring plan. They have fear in their stomachs for them, but also for their colleagues. On behalf of the PS Group, I would like here to reiterate our solidarity and support for all workers. GSK, the flagship of the pharmaceutical industry, which today generates 3.6 billion profits, announced yesterday, brutally, that it would separate 720 workers. The shock of these dismissals is incomprehensible in the face of huge profits. It is scandalous that this company, which has received €85 million in public aid, has announced that it will separate 720 workers, not to mention the 215 temporary contracts that will not be renewed. No, it's no exaggeration to talk about earthquakes, or social drama, when 1,000 workers are put on the saddle. No, it is not irresponsible today to talk about profits, dividends or public aid. Nor is it exaggerated to denounce the brutality of this social policy. How could this company have come to this? How has a company that succeeds in defeating deadly bacteria not seen the first symptoms of its own disease? Minister, you cannot remain insensitive and unresponsive to this tragedy. My questions will be direct. Would you agree to relax and review the pre-pension system? Are you going to help us review the Renault law, to ban stock market redundancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u5	Madam Secretary, yesterday a thousand people received bad news when entering GSK. After years of hard work, they have to leave their trusted workplace. Of course, on behalf of the sp.a Group, I would like to express my support for and solidarity with the affected workers and their families. Anyone who loses his job not only loses his income, but also loses friendship, structure and pride. Has this company had a major financial setback that it should take such measures? Not at all. In 2018 it made another half a billion euros profit. Madam Secretary, pharmaceutical companies are supported by the government. They have an important social value, they make vaccines, among other things. With the coronavirus in mind, we are therefore well aware of the importance of these pharmaceutical companies. However, we do expect pharmaceutical companies to accept their social responsibility. After all, it is striking that a thousand jobs are at risk on the one hand and 500 vacancies on the other. Instead of serving the shareholders, part of the profits could have been used to give loyal employees a new opportunity within the company. Madam Secretary, you immediately announced that you would apply the Renault Act. What initiatives will you take in this context to minimise the drama and to ensure that investments are made in workers who will then be able to stay in business or at least seek other, good solutions so that they can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u6	Minister, 935 jobs will be sacrificed in the GSK Group. It is 935 workers who have worked hours and hours, not counting their overtime, to advance science, to advance research, to advance the means to fight the disease; who have given everything for this enterprise, flexibility; and who today, if it depends on GSK, are put in the trash like a vulgar Kleenex. While this company makes profit: 516 million euros profit! It is not even a company that has cash flow problems, which has financial problems. But above all, how many taxes did this company pay on these 516 million? Many parties here have voted for tailor-made tax reductions for this company. This allowed GSK to pay out of 516 million euros of profit, 0.1% tax. GSK workers pay 30-40%, and GSK 0.1%. This famous patent income deduction law was passed by the MR, the Open Vld, the PS, the sp.a. A gift law, tailor-made, imposed by Reynders. A law that was written by the law firm Linklaters. This law was written for what and paid by whom? By GSK, colleagues. It was GSK who paid the attorneys' office who wrote a custom-made law for her. In Belgium, multinationals write their own laws. Madam Minister, we can no longer allow this social banditry to happen. I'm going to ask a question: do you not think that companies that make profits such as GSK should be prohibited from sacrificing employment in the name of money, money and money?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u7	Minister, we can come here, I just heard it right now, yelling at a lot of things. I want to scream too. I want to scream because it is first and foremost a social drama and a human drama for all the families involved. Let us not forget, moreover, the concern of all families, that is, the 9,000 people who work there, since none of them know whether they will be affected or not. Nor should we forget the interim workers, nor the subcontractors, who are also in an extremely difficult situation. But as politicians, we're not being asked to come here and scream anything. That's not what's going to change things. We must first try to limit the damage; try to save the job; then, to accompany these people to the best of value and value their skills in order to be able to find another job. The economic world is changing. Companies need to take turns to ensure their long-term future, but what is happening here raises a number of questions. Do you think, minister, there will be space to save some jobs? Can you assure us that a social plan will be put in place? In this context, would it not be useful to send a social conciliator not only for all GSK workers but also for temporary workers and subcontractors who, as you know, find themselves in a much more difficult situation in this type of negotiation? Tax fairness issues also arise. We hear a lot of numbers. At the same time, the real question is also what GSK's presence is about in terms of jobs, but also in terms of direct and indirect revenue in relation to the tax advantages it receives. Finally, the reform of the Renault law was announced by Minister Peeters. It was sent to the G10. What is the status of the discussions on the various proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u8	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to the statement of facts with certain nuances, but it is clear that yesterday we were all in shock. The Walloon Brabant is an economic province. The sector concerned, namely the pharmaceutical sector, is doing rather well. You can therefore imagine hearing such an announcement mainly from a company with around 100,000 jobs worldwide, of which 10% in Belgium and whose exports alone account for more than 25% of Walloon exports characterised by GSK's sector of activity. So it was a real earthquake, as has been said. In the face of this announced restructuring, on behalf of the MR Group, I would like to give my support and solidarity to the families who will be directly or indirectly affected. We do not yet know exactly the number or the workers concerned, but it is a whole society that is under psychological shock. This competence is first of all regional. I know that Minister Borsus, who has all our confidence, is now working on the task. Meetings are under way or will be held in the near future. Madam Minister, will you make a significant contribution alongside the Region, for example by setting up a task force, as has already been done in other experiments? Are you considering coordination? Finally, from a legal point of view, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the GSK pharmaceutical group informed us of its intention to redundancies of 125 employees and 595 executives. In the course of this year and next year, a further 215 employees with a fixed-term contract would have to leave the organisation. This restructuring is part of a larger restructuring in several sites that would affect several countries. GSK gave several reasons for this restructuring. If the group wants to simplify its organisation and make it more efficient, automation also plays a role. The unions are both surprised and disappointed by the magnitude of the announcement and the fact that the production unit is also affected. We, too, understand the reaction and our thoughts go out to the workers, the families affected and the affected region. As stipulated in the Renault law, we expect intensive consultation of the trade union organisations during the various phases. My services will ensure that this law is strictly enforced in all its aspects. Colleagues, the consultation should lead first of all to a maximum reduction in the planned number of redundancies in CSF. A good social plan must be put in place for those workers who will ultimately face collective redundancies. The social plan will also have to give maximum attention to the reemployment of the workers concerned. We must now let the social dialogue do its job, with a view to maintaining employment initially and re-employing the affected workers in a second phase. My administration is, of course, available to support this process, with the help of the social mediator. That's already happened. Yesterday, the social mediator made the necessary contacts with both parties. After answering your questions, I will immediately go to Namur to talk to the GSK management, in the presence of my competent regional colleagues. On this occasion, I will express my concerns and ask GSK management to strictly apply the Renault law in order to minimize the impact of this restructuring on employment. Of course, we are following this file very closely. We will be very careful to ensure that social dialogue is properly conducted here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear your mobilization to minimize the number of redundancies. That is, of course, what needs to be done, at least. However, a two-pronged response must be provided. First of all, it must take the form of medium-term legislative work aimed at reforming and extending the Renault law. Second, proactive systems need to be developed. For example, the Walloon government's regional policy statement provided for the creation of an observatory to prevent this type of shock. At the same time, it is important for ecologists to see another economic model emerge, which innovates, invests, creates quality jobs – anchored in our home, in the circular economy – and respects our environment. It is such a project that we must be able to develop for the well-being of society and workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. Today, I cannot help but think of the workers in Caterpillar, ING or Carrefour. I have the impression that history is repeating itself, with the removal of these 720 jobs at GSK. After all these restructurings, we asked you to move forward with us to ban collective redundancies that are not justified by real economic needs. We also asked you to review the tightening of the pre-pension policy and, in particular, to reconsider your ban on pre-pensions under the age of 60. The PS has given priority to its proposal for a law to prohibit redundancies, so that it will be discussed in the Social Affairs Committee next Wednesday. I hope that the other parties will support us for the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u12	Madam Minister, I hope that you will be able to avoid a social massacre through social mediation and social dialogue. It's true, GSK pays 0.1 % taxes. As with other companies undergoing restructuring, it is also the summit that is being served, while the people who need to be thanked, those who have worked hard, are being dumped. Vaccines can save lives, and that must be supported. But pharmaceutical companies should also be reminded of their social responsibility, rather than coldly dumping workers or organizing lotteries for sick babies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u13	What fatalism, minister! We'll go with the social plan. We're just gonna take some information. Shouldn't a minister of employment do anything else in our country? What a double standard, when you see how the unemployed are controlled! These, to receive their small thousand euros per month, are checked. They must come to the ONEM and justify everything. On the other hand, such multinationals that paid 0.1% of taxes last year and received 85 million euros from the Walloon Region, these multinationals that are the largest assisted in the country are not subject to any control. That is clearly the problem! Minister, you must intervene! This multinational is armored with money and doesn't need to fire. As Minister of Employment, fight for employment and not for the profits of companies! Ban these multinationals from firing when they make so much money!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u14	Minister, thank you for that answer. We obviously need to coordinate with the federated entities, especially Wallonia in this case. I hope that everyone will be anxious to ensure that jobs are preserved and that alternative proposals are put on the table. In this context, I understand that the social conciliator has already made some initial contacts yesterday, but I insist that he should have a sufficiently broad field of action to support the workers concerned, to help the trade union representatives to develop alternative proposals but also – you have not mentioned this – to accompany the subcontractors (independent or small and medium-sized enterprises) who, around GSK, are directly dependent on this large company and who will be hit with full force. Finally, with regard to the Renault law, five very concrete measures had been sent by Minister Peeters to the social partners. Speaking of which, I'm still hungry. Minister, may I ask you to reactivate these discussions, or we will lead them here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u15	Minister, thank you for that answer. I hear you're going to start this mission right now. This is obviously an important mission. If I may say so, about ten years ago, we had the same kind of trouble in Walloon Brabant but Walloon Brabant is a fertile soil for the pharmaceutical company. At the time, GSK had hired persons who had been dismissed by UCB. Today, UCB has just made a fairly significant investment announcement: more than 300 million euros will be invested in the coming months. UCB has already announced massive recruitments. It would therefore perhaps be interesting to make a task force at the level of the Walloon Brabant's living forces, specifically the pharmaceutical sector, to see if, from tomorrow, it is possible to find occupational reorientations for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u16	Madam Secretary, good luck in the difficult discussions you are waiting for!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u17	Minister Clarinval will answer a question addressed to the Prime Minister who, as has already been said, is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two serious daily newspapers, De Tijd and La Libre, tell us that the Federal Bureau of the Plan indicates a slight increase in growth prospects of 1.4% for 2020. Evidence that a government in day-to-day affairs is doing less harm than a full-fledged government, as was your government under the previous legislature. But the Bureau also raised another, more problematic point. Indeed, the budget deficit would worsen and amount to more than EUR 12 billion by 2020. How did we get there? We are told in these two daily newspapers that there is a reduction of more than EUR 3 billion in tax revenues, in personal and corporate taxes, as well as a decrease in the forecast of income from the household allowance. Do you confirm this information, Minister? Do you also confirm, on the basis of macroeconomic indicators, that the projected deficit for 2020 is indeed EUR 12.5 billion? You have all the elements that will make it clear to us. Minister, do you or do you not confirm this deficit of EUR 12.5 billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u19	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, in order to answer your question clearly, we must distinguish between the facts established, officially recognised by independent bodies, and the extrapolations made by journalists or by other bodies based on these figures. What do the Federal Planning Office and independent agencies tell us today? First of all, Belgium, in a context of deteriorating global economic growth, behaves better than other countries. It has a form of resistance in terms of growth. At the European level, we are above average. These organizations then tell us that growth for 2020 will be revised upwards by 0.1% and will rise to 1.4%. It is good news, therefore, to be welcomed. Moreover, as seen in previous years, job creation continues to grow. Nearly 50,000 jobs will be created next year. That's what the Federal Office of the Plan says. In recent years, 370,000 jobs have been created. The Federal Office of the Plan continues by saying that purchasing power is increasing. It has increased by 2.5% last year and will increase by almost 2% next year. These are facts. This is said by independent bodies. On the budget, Mr.Laaouej, last week, I received official figures from BOSA confirming that the nominal deficit is forecast for 2019 at 1.85%, or $8.7 billion. These are the figures that I have now. Social security has not been underfunded. It is balanced through State funding. It is therefore wrong to say that it is in deficit. Those are the facts. Now I'm going to extrapolation. It appears that journalists, on the basis of figures from the Federal Planning Office, estimated that there were 12 billion deficits. To be brief, I would just like to say that this is not a figure from the Federal Planning Office. These are extrapolations. Nevertheless, Mr Laaouej, in order to clarify this information, I have formally requested that a Monitoring Committee be organised as soon as possible, ideally in March, in order to have official and independent figures on the deficit to explain this discrepancy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u20	Minister, I'm going to tell you where these 12 billion budget deficits come from, which will have to be found by 2020. They come from the unjust and inefficient policy of the previous government, a policy of austerity that has suffocated the population socially and held back the revival of growth. All these gifts by billions unfunded to the big boss! That is the result of the bad policy that has been yours for the past four years! Can you imagine for a moment that we will accept that some people are thinking again, here in front of me, of sending the bill back to the population? I tell you clearly: we will need an analysis and a debate to make the truth about the figures because it is out of the question of sending the bill back to the public for a second time! This has lasted long enough, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u21	Allahoe akbar!No, colleagues, don't worry. Before the Greens or the Socialists come to offer me a membership card, I did not convert to Islam. Allahoe akbar is what I read when I walk through Brussels. It can be read on bus booths and on very large posters distributed by the Brussels prevention service itself. But make no mistake, that is not to prevent new Islamic terrorist attacks, that is to prevent people from associating Allahoe akbar with terrorist attacks. The next time you visit the London Bridge or the Jewish Museum or sit at the train station or at the airport and suddenly you hear someone dressed in a djellaba shouting Allahoe akbar, you should know according to the Brussels prevention service that that simply means 'God is great'. So it's okay. Don't move. Don't move. You may be stabbed or blown up, but at least you're not a racist. According to the Brussels prevention service, that is what this is all about. The Allahoe Akbar campaign appears to have an effect. Last weekend, some 6,000 praying Muslims were found, occupying a street in Molenbeek at the memorial service of a salafistic islamp editor, a radical Muslim who even comes to preach in our schools. Dear Minister, when thousands of Flemings applied to argue against the Marrakesh Pact in Brussels, that was banned. If we were to occupy a street in Brussels with Shield and Friends or with the Language Action Committee, we would be arrested immediately. But what happens when 6,000 radical Muslims occupy a street without a request to commemorate a salafistic islamp editor? Then there's no problem! The police even come by to drop off the street and reroute traffic. Do you think that's normal, Minister? It seems that salafism is becoming mainstream in our country. How are the imams who preach in schools screened? What deradicalisation measures do you place against the marching salafism in our country? Don't you think that radical Islam has been given free play in our cities for far too long?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u22	Mr Van Langenhove, you will forgive me if I answer your very animated question a little less animated. We have two levels in our country, at which we try to deal with extremism. Firstly, there is the federal level, where the Security of the State and the OCAD follow those phenomena, whether they are religious or political, with very close attention from very close, without the utterance of an extreme opinion as such being prohibited. Yes, you do. The Security of the State and OCAD follow that with the utmost care. A very interesting brochure of State Security was made available to all partners, including OCAD. I can say that the Radicalism plan, which is of course not public, is regularly updated. There is also regular consultation between the federal, regional and local partners. There is a second level, that of the Communities, which is a more important level when it comes to prevention. In terms of both education and disengagement, I would like to refer you to that level. Integration and related powers are mainly Community powers. I contribute to this in the best possible way in prisons and through the local task forces in the succession of freed people who have ever been radicalised. The government has given the Great Mosque a new destination in the best possible circumstances, in consultation with the Saudis. I have explained this in detail. A non-profit association was established on 6 December 2019. There is an imam training in cooperation between the Muslim executive and two universities, which are not the least. So I can only tell you that we are doing our utmost to follow as closely as possible any form of extremism that could degenerate, following, among other things, the recommendations of your committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u23	Minister, you say that you are following up on the issue, but following up without action has been going on for decades, without any results. Well, there is a result, but a negative result. Minister, I would like to quote briefly from a book by Hind Fraihi. That is a young Moroccan journalist who went undercover in Molenbeek a few months back in 2005, 15 years ago. I read: "I note that many Muslims in Brussels do not have any desire for integration. They see the Belgians as unbelievers and have no affection for our country. They no longer consider Molenbeek as Belgium, but as Muslim enclave, where they wave the stick, as an Islam state where Belgians are no longer welcome. Molenbeek is a real Muslim state. There's only one way out there, but one chief, and that's Allah. Everyone else has to move. The government no longer has any authority in their eyes." Minister, she decided as follows: "How is it possible that Belgian politics has allowed it to come to this?" That dates back to 2005.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u24	Mr Geens, you also answer questions addressed to your fellow Minister De Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to life and death, every second counts. However, in our country, when the MUG is called for a heart attack, only half of the cases will arrive on time. In case of fire, our fire trucks may not be able to leave due to a shortage of personnel. In the event of a major road accident, cleaning of the road surface can sometimes take hours due to the driving times. I can go on like this for a while. A government must guarantee the safety of all citizens, and certainly of citizens in need, because that is what citizens ultimately pay taxes for. Today, security is not guaranteed everywhere. Emergency services police, fire brigade, civil protection and relief centres have been calling for assistance for months. The Michael administration has remained deaf to that cry for help, has not listened, but has simply made the savings. No investments were made in personnel or in materials or safety. However, it is about the security and protection of our citizens. Whoever calls the aid centre should be able to trust that the phone is being answered and that the computers in the auxiliary plant will not fail? The person whose house is on fire must have the assurance that firefighters can pull out and be on the scene immediately. The competent Minister De Crem simply wiped the problems at the committee meeting a few weeks ago, while the distress call sounds louder every day. Minister, when will you finally listen and how will you solve the problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u26	Minister, I expected your fellow Minister De Crem here, but you know that I also very much like you. The Latest News today presents three pages on the hearings on civil security reform. It could have been 30 pages without exaggerating. Our emergency services are so badly on their gums that it is clear that the safety of our citizens is being compromised, as we have just heard. It is not about PVDA statements, but about testimonies from the last few weeks in the Committee on Home Affairs. Imagine calling 911 because a loved one has had a heart attack, but you're being put on hold. This is simply happening here, in Belgium, Minister, because there is only one person in post. That is what a trade unionist came to tell us in Parliament. We have read again today about staff shortages in the newspaper: in East Flanders there is a 36% deficit and in Flemish Brabant there is even half too short. The situation of the MUG is even more serious. The U in MUG stands for 'urgency', but usually they are too late according to the established standards. For years there has been talk of a scaling-up, but in practice it is just a big saving. There are two barracks of Civil Protection left, one of which is in Jan Jambon's backyard, which happened to have implemented the reform. Coincidence? Even worse is that the barracks are undermanned: the fire department often doesn't call them up anymore, because it just takes hours for them to get there. This situation is dangerous not only for the citizens, Minister, but also for the staff themselves, hence the following questions. Do you admit that the reforms have led to fewer staff and services? What plans are on the table to tackle the shortage of staff and to improve the provision of services to citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u27	Minister, during the months of October and November last year we held interesting hearings in the Committee on the Interior, where a number of problems were indeed reported. However, we also heard at the time that positive things were achieved after the reform of the fire department. What we read today in the newspaper and what we hear from a number of colleagues here, therefore, needs to be somewhat nuanced. That's just one side of the story. On the other hand, after the fire-fighting reform, services have really improved in some areas. A number of cases are now being made administratively central and complex problems are being solved more quickly on the ground. The local authorities, who put most of the money on the table, are finally sitting at the table to make decisions. So there are positive things, but civil protection is indeed a major problem: that is where we have deteriorated. The crucial barracks of Liedekerke and Jabbeke are closed and although there was provision for the staff to follow to Brasschaat and Crisnée, that has not happened, so they have far too few people today. I have two questions, Minister. How do you evaluate the reforms and what lessons can we draw from them? What initiatives do you and the government still want to take to further optimise?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u28	We got up this morning and read the Latest News. We've held hearings where we've heard positive things. During other hearings, however, we heard justified criticism from firefighters, civil protection and emergency power stations. One of the criticisms is that there are enough fire trucks, but in some places too few firefighters to drive them out. The emergency power plant needs additional personnel and equipment. There is also Civil Protection. He's still a problem. After the disaster in Gellingen, it was clear that something had to happen to Civil Protection. We couldn't just do that in the short term. A reform was introduced in 2015, but the various hearings clearly showed that the system is not working. We must not put that under the seats or sofas. We can't be blind to it. As a group, we have always opposed the transfer of the only barracks in Flanders to Brasschaat. We think that barracks is too small and too old. Recently a train near Denderleeuw had to be stopped because a white powder had been found. It would be anthrax. It took two hours before the Civil Protection from Brasschaat was on site in Denderleeuw. Our group is asking us to review the locations of Civil Protection in Liedekerke and Jabbeke with an open mind. That is why I have a number of specific questions. We've heard justified sighs from all our emergency services. What will the Minister do about this? Will he take action? Will he also reevaluate the civil protection reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Civilian Protection falls within the competence of my fellow Minister De Crem, who rose up in the faraway Congo with the latest news. I will therefore entrust you with the answers he has prepared. You all know that the somewhat one-sided story that some of you have brought here is the result of a number of public hearings which, although they were conducted in full transparency in November and December, did not receive press coverage at that time. Mr De Crem concluded at those hearings on 11 December. The Civilian Protection and Fire Department reforms have been decided by the Michael I Government, a government in full power, and are now being implemented. Can certain things be better? Without a doubt, but that doesn't mean it's so bad right now and miracle solutions exist. Mr De Crem wishes to draw your attention to a number of priorities, in particular the need to address staff shortages in the services. The focus is on improving the statutes and making staff selection and training more efficient. For Civilian Protection only, at least 41 additional operational agents will be recruited in 2020. For emergency power stations, actions are planned that will increase their performance and reduce the workload, such as a supraprovincial operation in the field of software and management actions. The introduction of an interactive voice response system will respond to this. Fire department grants have increased from €52 million in 2014 to €150 million today. That means a triple, Mrs Kitir. Cooking costs money. More resources need to be invested. Hence the great importance of a stable federal government in full power, which can continue to address these challenges for our valued emergency services, says Mr De Crem. For, make no mistake, all our emergency services are operating at a very high level today and are once again providing vital work for every citizen in our society, without exception. I would therefore like to join Mr De Crem in expressing my appreciation and admiration for all those women and men in our security and emergency services who are 24 hours and 7 days in our country ready for the safety and well-being of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u30	Minister, if you really want to show your appreciation to all those who are trying every day to ensure security, you would hear better the cry of distress they express every day. I am amazed by the colleagues from Open Vld and CD&V who dare to minimize the problems here. Aid workers in Parliament have come to testify that they cannot do their job. Computers are down. Firefighters can't pull out because there's not enough staff. Then one must have the courage to say here that it is not so bad, that one should not exaggerate, because in section x and y there is good news. Every citizen has the right to a guaranteed safety, especially if he is in need. If you want to show your appreciation, listen to the problems that exist and deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u31	Mr President, I was somewhat shocked by a few testimonies from colleagues and the Minister's reply. There were not only hearings, we also went on the premises because that is our place. I think you missed a piece of my speech, because both the zone commanders, the trade unions and the people on the ground said the same thing: they are on their gums and can't go on anymore. We have heard testimonies saying that it is going to cost people their lives. We don't know if it's already cost people their lives. It has to be clear. We all want a government with full authority. I have heard that you have been appointed royally to do this very quickly, Minister. It is quite clear that these reforms have been implemented without an agreement from the trade unions. It seems to be a fashion phenomenon that people carry out everything with a government in current affairs. We can't do this anymore. There is a clear need to invest in security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that what has been decided in the government is being implemented and that there are more recruitments in different departments. Here again we are pretending that nothing is done about safety and that everything is dramatic. In my capacity as mayor of a small municipality, there are still many fellow mayors here. I notice every day that our police, our fire department and other security services are doing a very good job. So, Mrs Kitir, what you are saying here is quite apart from the issue. You do that for lack of experience. What you're saying is completely beside the issue. Colleagues, I would like to call for more financial resources to be allocated to our security services. After all, the savings made over the past few decades have systematically been underfunded. Our party believes that much more resources should go to defence, police, state security and justice, so that today's guaranteed security can be guaranteed in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clear answer. I would like to make it clear to the first two speakers that we and the Minister have not declared that everything is perfect. We have indicated that steps have been taken. Our party also wants to be clear. For us too, additional resources can go to safety, if that means recruitment. However, we also ask that we have the courage to review and re-evaluate the plan in the area of civil security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u34	Minister, we all know that drugs and drug crime are disrupting our society. Drug gangs openly conduct a war on the street and the abundance of drugs in our society has a disastrous impact, including in our region. In addition, this drug trafficking creates a parallel life for some young people, in which they can earn a lot of money quickly, instead of taking opportunities to move forward. There's no silver bullet to deal with that problem. A comprehensive package of measures is needed to tackle drugs in our society. One of these measures, the Power Plan, was introduced to detect and crack down on crooked business models and thus tackle and roll down drug gangs. The main purpose of this plan is the cooperation between different services: the city of Antwerp, the parquet, the local and federal police, customs, social inspection services, the port and various ministers. After two years of application, an evaluation of the Power Plan is now ready. A study looked at how all the services involved were working, how cooperation was being carried out and what could be done even better. The results are not surprising. The flow of information can be improved. The prosecution by the Justice Department could be better. We need more international cooperation. The next government must therefore work to roll out a national plan of action on organised crime. This should include, inter alia, the following measures. The problem of drugs requires an integrated and integrated approach. More investment in justice is needed to punish the perpetrators. Preventive actions must keep young people away from drugs. There is also a need for a plan of action for the Kempen.... and more and more the centre of synthetic I have the following questions for you, Minister. How do you evaluate the Power Plan? What lessons can we draw from it? What initiatives would you like to take to tackle society-destructive crime in Antwerp and our country? Do you want to work on a national plan to tackle undermining crime? What measures will be included?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u35	Mrs Verhaert, it will satisfy you as a Kempian. I am great for the Kempen, which is well known that we are working on a Kempen-Maas plan. Mr De Crem and I have already met with the Dutch Minister and his services on this matter. At the moment, hard work is being made to get it fully operational as soon as possible. The Streamplan, which you are actually asking for, is a memorandum of understanding, which, by analogy with the Channel Plan, sets out the commitment of the main security partners in the fight against the import and transit of drugs, in particular cocaine, in the port of Antwerp. This memorandum has been signed by a whole series of federal ministers of all political intents. It concerns colleagues Jambon, Van Overtveldt, Secretary of State De Backer and myself, this is cooperation with the city of Antwerp and the services. The study of professors Colman and Janssens of the Ghent University, which is neutral in relation to this phenomenon, shows the added value of the integrated approach. However, there are some reservations. Firstly, the '80s taxpayer's charter, which tries to set up some sort of Chinese wall between the tax administration and the parquets, sometimes makes it difficult to exchange information between services. There is also too little exchange of information between police and judicial services and local authorities and mayors. That's two pain points. Furthermore, the study says that there is also a problem with regard to the level at which the plan is coordinated by the Memorandum of Understanding. That role was imposed on the director of the federal judicial police of Antwerp. The study advocates a different level. The federal level would be better suited for this. These work areas need to be addressed further and we need to see if the recommendations are right. As important as this study may be, we need to verify that. Over the next few weeks, I will meet these professors and the relevant services. We are trying to work on these points very quickly. If that cannot be done under this current government, then it must certainly be possible under the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u36	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you will be working on Kempen-Maasplan. Once again, there is no national plan in this country with an integrated and integrated approach to combating drug crime. As an example, I mention the anonymous drug reporting point set up by the District Attorney's Office in Limburg to combat drug labs and drug waste dumping. In the past year 130 reports were received, leading to the discovery of two drug labs, three cannabis plantations and about fifty ongoing investigations. That is a good result for this Limburg drug notification point but drugs and crime do not stop at the provincial borders, of course, because it is not just a provincial problem. I therefore hope that you will work effectively quickly on a national integrated plan and that you will take the initiative to roll out the best cases of the various plans at national level. We must make this a priority as a matter of urgency. So it definitely needs to be taken by the next federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u37	Mr Minister, I did indeed address the question to the Prime Minister. She's in Congo, but I assume you'll answer on her behalf. I have a piece of paper with me which contains the answer that she gave to the questions I asked about this last week and which raised a number of new questions for me. Unfortunately, we note that the government needed six weeks to appeal the judgment. That's a choice. It is also strange that the verdict of 11 December 2019... I quote signs from last week's Prime Minister's response gave rise to a meeting of the core of the government on 17 and 24 January 2020 and not December 2019. If we have six weeks to comply with a verdict, there does not seem to be an excessive rush. The questions I would like to ask you also stem from last week's Prime Minister's reply. I quote her: 'I would remind you that Parliament has decided not to authorise the movement of Belgian soldiers into Syria, making it even more difficult in the present circumstances to guarantee the safety of consular personnel.' You've just returned from a mission in the region. Do you believe that there is room for a parliamentary initiative there? The question has never been put to Parliament. So we have not been able to answer yes to it either. In short, I would like to ask you very specifically whether you think Parliament can help in this respect. If so, then Parliament should address itself very urgently to the President-in-Office. The Prime Minister also noted last week that the State will try to prove that the sentence has been complied with in court. The problem raised by the general public, which is the subject of articles published every week, raises the following question. What efforts has the government made to ensure that the periodic penalty payments of EUR 5,000 per day per child are not paid? Have you had any contact with the lawyers involved? [[Disabling microphone]] Finally, I will have to raise my voice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u38	You have slightly exceeded the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u39	I come to my final question. The Prime Minister has indicated that repatriation must take place. Is that your reading of the verdict? I would also like a specific answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u40	You got a bailiff over the floor yesterday on behalf of a couple of Syrian gangsters. Those gangsters have literally and figuratively stood us to life. Today they're laughing at us in the face. More than half a million euros, that's the preliminary result. That amount could go on forever. The plaintiffs have asked for a ceiling, but the activist judge has imposed an unlimited penalty. You didn't think it was worth appealing against that verdict. You stated in committee on 8 January 2020 that the government would not appeal and you allowed the deadline to expire. Last week the Prime Minister came here to answer my question that she did appeal. Minister, it is only thanks to the appeal that the terrorists have made, because they themselves want the mother and father to come along, that the government has been able to appeal on an occasional basis. Speaking of negligence. Since last week's question, EUR 350 000 of periodic penalty payments have been added. Everything else hasn't changed. There is one difference. You have known since yesterday that you will be able to expect further bailiffs. Last week I also predicted that many Syrians would take their chances. The question remains where does it stop? What will you do to stop that? Are you willing to reverse the initial error? It is the decision of the Michel administration at the end of 2017 to automatically bring children under the age of ten back here. Is the government prepared to make every effort not only to limit periodic penalty payments but also to prevent their return? Are you prepared to review the laws and treaties that make such insane situations possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u41	Minister, I am back with the same eternal question. When will your government finally fulfil its 2017 promise to repatriate all Belgian children detained in Syria? In three years, there have been the repatriation of six children and, above all, five Belgian children have perished under dantesque conditions in overcrowded camps in north-eastern Syria. Everyone has been telling us the same thing for years – the judiciary, the OCAM, Child Focus and the UN Human Rights Council – today, both for our safety and for those children, we need to actively repatriate them. Last week, your Liberal colleague, Minister Glatigny, addressed the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation by saying that our youth services were ready to accompany the return of these 60 children. On 1 February, Belgium opened its presidency of the United Nations Security Council in New York on the repatriation of these children and the situation of children in armed conflict. Minister, while you have the cards in your hands to act, your government is still blocking. I ask you for a moment to put yourself in the place of those children who, for the vast majority, are under the age of six. Are you finally going to act? Are you going to repatriate these children?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u42	Mr President, as you know, I have just returned from a four-day mission that brought me to Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon. One of the objectives of that mission was to inform me directly on the ground as many actors as possible about the situation of the Foreign Terrorist Fighters and also about the situation of the children in al-Hol and al-Roj in northern Syria. I quote and agree with what Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès said at the plenary session of 30 January: 'The government and I are very sensitive to the situation of children who are victims of the circumstances for which they are not responsible in any way. Therefore, we have a duty to help them." I would add that it is a humanitarian duty. I therefore recall here the firm commitment that the government made in February 2018 – in its composition of the time and full exercise – to allow the return of children under the age of ten who are in the camps. A child is a child, regardless of the circumstances that brought them to the camps or whatever the means available to their parents. These children themselves survive in terrible circumstances. It is the full responsibility of their parents, who brought them into these circumstances, not that of the Belgian government. I ask myself a question and ask you the question: if parents on the ground, especially mothers, do not want their children to leave these camps without them, why should we accept that these people, mothers or fathers, take their children hostage? The decision of the full-year government in 2018 is clear: "Assistance granted to the minor's return does not involve assistance in the return of the accompanying parent." Speaking of responsibility, the actions these people take or in which they have participated in one way or another cannot be underestimated. They had terrible consequences at the time, and they still have terrible consequences today. In the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan, which I visited on Tuesday, I met other families, other children who had to flee from theatres of war partly created by the same terrorist groups active in the region. The situation on the ground is obviously constantly changing and has been accelerating in recent months, as a result of military operations, sometimes new, ongoing and of which you know the content. All my interlocutors on the spot, whether they are political authorities or humanitarian actors, have confirmed to me this situation, which significantly reduces the window of opportunity. The government is fully aware of this. It remains to be hoped that the other actors on this issue will be equally so. I would also like to remind you, as you know, that the steps taken face three tangible obstacles. The first is that the Syrian Kurds, at this stage, refuse the separation of mothers and their children. The second, which you also know, is that, for the time being, mothers also refuse to separate themselves from their children. The third is that Syria is a state at war. It is therefore not so simple to knock on the camp door to get the children out of it, as we would all wish. I repeat, the government's position, which is not new, is to allow the repatriation of all children under the age of ten. I want to make this very clear: we are working, but to make it seem that it is enough to go there easily is a simplistic thing that I cannot accept and that the government does not accept. We therefore insist on this point: we are working under particularly difficult conditions. And, if we speak very concretely of the ten children mentioned by the last judgment of the Dutch-speaking chamber, against which, moreover, we went on appeal, I would like to inform you that the documents are ready and available and that they are in Erbil. This means that the consular component is closed. Now we have to get into the camps. Mrs Pas, as you know, your question on the penalty payment was served on the Belgian State on 30 January with regard to the order of the Dutch-speaking Chamber of the Court of First Instance in Brussels. On Wednesday 5 February, the bailiff presented himself to the FPS Justice and Foreign Affairs in connection with the recovery of the penalty payment imposed. An inventory of certain goods was given to him in case a forced sale would be necessary. The Belgian State will do everything it can to prevent such a situation. I believe that we have taken all the measures that were in our power. The Belgian State disputes the periodic penalty payments and their implementation in all possible ways and will continue to challenge them. First, an appeal against the decision of the Brussels Court of First Instance, including the question of periodic penalty payments, has been brought on an occasional basis. The hearing is scheduled for February 26th. Next, before the end of the week, the Belgian State will ask the attachment court to put an end to the recovery procedure. Finally, before the end of the week, the Belgian State will also request the court which imposed the periodic penalty payment to establish that the Belgian State is in an inability to implement the measures and to lift the penalty payment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u43	Minister, the verdict dates from 11 December. This means that you are now listing a series of measures which, knowing that you had six weeks to solve the problem, sound rather late. Let me give a positive interpretation of your answer in that you are making a very small start to make it clear that these periodic penalty payments will not be paid and that the government believes that the future will show whether you have succeeded in taking the appropriate measures, in particular all possible measures necessary to comply with the judgment. I'm counting on it to be. I do not think that public opinion would understand under any circumstances that you are failing here. I also note that you have not answered my specific question as to whether you consider that this judgment is intended to make us actively repatriate, contrary to the decision of the 2018 Government and contrary to the provisions of the judgment. It's clear to us. That sentence does not apply to that. I hope you will contradict the Prime Minister's words in this regard. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u44	Mr De Roover, I note that you took 30 seconds more time with the question and 20 seconds more with the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u46	Mr De Roover, next time you can run for office here. Three questions were asked. There's no reason to believe there'll only be four minutes. If three questions are asked with many detailed questions, the President is free to go up to five and perhaps six minutes, if one questioner gets two minutes. That's the deal we made. In general, I would like to remind everyone that we have been able to respect that timing perfectly for a number of weeks. It is perfectly possible to stay below that time limit, but one is always systematically above it. We are familiar with speaking time. It is really possible to ask a question within two minutes. It is also possible for the government to respect that time span. I call Mrs Pas, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u47	Mr President, despite the Minister's extensive reply period, I did not receive any answers to my specific questions. Today, the IS children owe 55.000 euros each. It is vengeful that the taxpayer, who barely gets it together in his entire life, should pay for it. I hear you emphasising all the obstacles that have not yet been able to implement the decision, because it is not a judgment. Minister, you should have done the opposite, as is the case in the Netherlands: resisting the return, abandoning the decision of the Michel government at the end of 2017. That is the attitude you must take! I quoted here last week the German State Security Service, which calls these children ticking time bombs. Especially for you today, I quote VVD member Dilan Yeşilgöz in the same discussion: "It is dangerous to pick up these children. It's leading to a threat to our national security. We don't want these children back, and their parents certainly don't."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u48	Indeed, Minister, the situation in Syria is not obvious. We understand it easily. It's a war situation. However, the situation is not impossible. Today, all experts tell us that we have an opportunity window to act. We therefore solemnly ask you to take action and actively repatriate these children, all under the age of ten. It is simply a measure of humanity but also an international obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u49	Mr President, Minister, you have just referred to the situation of children. My question relates to the results of your trip to Iraq. First of all, the question of the Foreign Terrorist Fighters (FTF) and their families is deadlocked. We just talked about the kids. Your government has a position that it has maintained for two years. Justice has another one. The Iraqi authorities still have another one. The Rojava authorities would like mothers to accompany the children. We need to get out of this impasse permanently because it is dangerous for our safety. Today, the Rojava authorities have just announced on their Twitter feed that they would be ready to judge, on the spot, the FTFs, especially the Belgians who are imprisoned there. Their position has changed radically since, so far, they had refused to judge them. They call for mutual legal assistance, cooperation from third States. Indeed, they are unable to do so without the cooperation of the countries from which they come. What is your reaction to this change in Rojava's position? More generally, how can we finally get out of this impasse? In particular, what was the nature of your discussions in Erbil where the Kurdish authorities could play a role and who at some point had been approached to play an important role in the FTF's judgement? What is your strategy today? I repeat, it is time to get out of this situation which is dangerous for our safety. We're part of the anti-Daesh coalition. What was the nature of your discussions in this regard? We still have four soldiers in Erbil. I imagine you've been questioned about that. What will be our involvement in the future in Iraq, in northern Iraq and possibly in northern Syria to continue this fight against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u50	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, ladies and gentlemen, I did indeed go on a mission to the Middle East (Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon) from 2 to 5 February. During my visit to Iraq, I had political contacts in the capital with the President as well as with my Iraqi Foreign Affairs counterpart. Apart from the various bilateral aspects with Iraq, the fact that the fight against Daesh is still far from over was stressed. Indeed, terrorist pockets are, unfortunately, still present. This is a very specific element that has been reported to us. You'll tell me we suspected it, but having confirmed it on the spot was, it seems to me, useful. Our view of Daesh is the same. International presence on the ground remains necessary. The fact that this resolution was voted in Parliament does not change the position of the Iraqi Foreign Minister or the President. The foreign presence is essential to participate in the fight against terrorism, which is global. It doesn't just happen to be there, but it's there too, we know it. On the occasion of my meetings with the Iraqi President and Prime Minister of Kurdistan, I can say that we also share the same view. It is the same principle: we must remain there. We thanked the Kurdish authorities in Iraq for last year's assistance in the repatriation of the six orphaned children. With regard to the impasse in which we find ourselves, I will take a look at the information that I saw when I arrived, to examine the involvement that it represents. This may not be entirely in line with what we were told at our meetings. Clearly, we already have a lot to do with Syrians and Iraqis. The ideal for them was to allow the return so that the judgments would take place here. You know this positioning. Ours is not in that sense. Rather, it is a matter of ensuring that children under the age of 10 can be repatriated; I recalled it just before, as part of the question. I also recalled the difficult nature of the operational plan. You know as well as I do the difficulties it represents. I will also stress the enormous responsibility, which cannot be reversed. I said it in the first answer. Maybe we're not saying it enough. The primary responsibility comes from mothers who have put their children in such circumstances. The government is working to find a solution. Indeed, our will and our duty to humanity are to allow the return of these children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u51	Minister, thank you. On the first point, I am pleased that you were able to make this trip. It's important. Part of our security is in this part of the world. It was important to realize that. We must stand alongside the Iraqi authorities and the authorities of Northern Kurdistan. Our presence must be more than symbolic. Today, four Belgian soldiers on the spot, it's really little. We will have to check and have discussions in Parliament to move from speech to action. Indeed, important security issues are taking place there. About the FTFs, frankly, we have to get out of this schizophrenia. Our security means we have our hands on what's going on there. The day that the FTF will be in the hands of either Bashar al-Assad or other forces there, or the day that Daesh has managed, as he promises, to release these FTFs, our security will have been seriously damaged. We have to get out of here. We must either cooperate with the Rojava authorities, since they propose it, and put ourselves around a table with them, or find a solution that will ensure that justice is done, and that our security is assured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u52	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, situations of verbal or physical assault and electronic harassment affect children with brutality, sometimes causing death. We know that there are all kinds of personalities, but all young people can face this phenomenon one day. There are many policies in this area. Plans bloom periodically. Awareness of the phenomenon, its mechanisms, its risks, its prevention, diagnosis and the care to be provided are indeed relevant to all the institutional levels of our country. Of course, we must pay tribute to the work done every day by many actors. Platforms such as School Harassment, Child Focus, mental health networks and Cyber Help are extremely positive examples. Legislative changes are also welcome. Mr Matz has also tabled a proposal to amend our penal rules. Tomorrow, the funeral of a teenage girl who ended her life without a doubt because of harassment will take place. One of the keys to fighting this scourge, according to the experts, is to ensure communication, to speak to detect and to treat. Another is the need for better coordination of actions. In Europe, on average, 20% of children and adolescents suffer from psychological problems. Minister, what concrete progress has been made under the Mental Health Action Plan 2015-2020? Are additional measures possible? Are there any consultations for cross-cutting action involving Health, the Interior, Justice and the federated entities? If so, what are the results? If not, is this possible? How can mental health networks for youth and adolescents be further supported? In terms of psychological assistance, what could you propose regarding the accessibility of psychological care for those under 18 years of age? How, in terms of cooperation, does the Interdepartmental Conference on Health work on youth harassment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, I would like first of all to say that all my thoughts go to the family and friends of this young girl who killed herself. When a young person comes to the conclusion that life is no longer bearable and decides to end it, we have a duty to question ourselves. I would like to share my views on the issue of bullying in schools and on social networks and their impact on the mental health of our children. First of all, I believe that respect and tolerance are the cornerstones of this debate, but this is the problem today. Each of us, whether as a parent, teacher, friend or politician, has the opportunity to contribute to greater respect and tolerance in our society. Each of our actions, however trivial it may be, can help change things day after day. Yes, prevention and education are fundamental. In this area, a large number of steps have been taken by the Communities. In the area of mental health care, we also remain very active in seeking help. Previously, mental health care remained, in most cases, confined to the hospital. That is why I and the ministers concerned from the federated entities have developed a new policy on mental health care for young people. In this way, we want to bring all sectors closer together. As such, I confirm that we have worked in the Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, there is still a long way to go. Finally, yes, every child feeling that they can't anymore is a case of too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer, knowing that a lot of action has already been taken. We also know that our institutional system is very complex. That is why all levers must be actuated. Coordination, awareness-raising and training of all actors must be developed. Early detection and activation should provide a concrete response to harassment. Madam Minister, as you said - and I know you think deeply - every death of a young man breaks our heart as a father or as a mother, even if we do not know the one who does it. Everyone fears that they will experience such a situation with their own children. That is why I believe it is useful to look at a national plan to combat harassment, since all actors and all levels of government are involved. In order to stop this phenomenon, it is essential and more urgent that everyone gather around such a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u55	Madam Secretary, last year a total of 133 sports clubs were subject to tax controls. Of course, there is nothing wrong with that in itself. However, 85 sports clubs were fined for this, and you will retain unpaid VAT on the drinks receipts which they distributed free of charge to youth players after a competition. I do not have to tell you that this has caused some concern in the sports clubs that are mainly amateurs. We must not forget that sports clubs contribute to strengthening social cohesion and are therefore of great social importance. Of course, I do not want to say that sports clubs should not follow the rules, but at the same time the inspectors should apply those rules exactly and equally for everyone. It is often a complex, very technical regulation which also raises practical problems. Sports clubs often lack tax knowledge and they may find themselves in financial difficulties due to carelessness or ignorance. That is not surprising either, because in the rates he applies, the tax authorities distinguish between soft drinks and alcoholic drinks, drinks that are drunk in the dressing rooms and in the cafeteria, drinks that are already drunk standing and sitting and so on. There are also different rates for soup with and without balls. In other words, it's chaos. I have four questions for you, Madam Secretary. How many sports clubs were controlled in the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels-Capital Region last year respectively? Do you believe that VAT should be refunded to consumptions? How much VAT has the administration claimed and how many fines were paid? How do you propose to give the sports clubs more certainty so that the results of the VAT checks become predictable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u56	Mr President, Minister, associations and, in particular, sports clubs have been in a state of turmoil over the last few days, as a result of the newspaper articles that the IRS signs liquor coupons. Apparently, it is not easy to apply VAT correctly. These articles appeared as a result of the inspection at many sports clubs, from larger to very small, in relation to VAT on drinks. From drinks purchased by the sports club, VAT may be deducted or recovered, at least when that drink is sold in the cafeteria. When the drink is given away free of charge, the VAT must be refunded. That had often not happened, leading to large fines. Of course, it makes sense for clubs to have to apply the rules, but I have two major comments to make. Firstly, we must avoid a whole witch hunt and ensure that the rules are applied fairly. Minister De Croo has already stated that he wants to apply these rules in all reasonableness. How's that gonna happen? With administrative tolerance or otherwise? Secondly, but certainly not less important, it is absolutely important that the clubs are well informed. It's often about clubs where volunteers are active, day in, day out. They must run the club and keep it running, but they must also deal with administrative matters. We read in the newspaper that there was a whole information campaign seven years ago. With all due respect, seven years ago it was a long time ago and it is about clubs with sometimes a lot of progress. It can then be said that information can also be found online. That's right, on the page of the FPS Finance is a good summary, but it dates back to 2015. I've gone over these, there's a lot of dated information in there, information that's not right anymore. How are we going to apply the rules in all reasonable terms? How have the clubs been well informed in the past? How are we going to do that in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the questions about football. People know how much I love this sport. On behalf of Minister De Croo the answer. First of all, he is convinced that the vast majority of sports clubs are acting absolutely in good faith. They may sometimes lack correct and complete information. The Minister has therefore suggested to the FPS Finance to sit with the sports federations and actively inform the clubs about their tax obligations, which has already happened in the past. He gives three elements about the polemics of the past few days. As Mr Van der Donkt said, last year there was a VAT check at 133 sports clubs. 85 of them received a VAT fine, of which 34 football clubs. After all, the phenomenon does not only occur in football. The VAT fines relate to much more than just the drinks receipts. In almost all cases the receipts are only a very limited element in the whole of the correction. How many there are in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels the Minister will have to send you, because I was not informed of that. It is not the case that specific control actions were organised from the central services on the drinks receipts at the sports clubs. VAT controls are carried out on the basis of normal risk selection by local services people on the basis of the VAT rules, which are largely European and apply to all taxable persons. The Minister also points out that for all taxable persons, including sports clubs, a VAT exemption is possible if the annual turnover does not exceed EUR 25,000. Four years ago, this threshold was raised by EUR 10,000, just so as not to burden these small associations and sports clubs too much. Finally, I would like to stress that the government and the Minister of Finance cannot comment on individual tax records of specific clubs. However, I can say that, in the vast majority of cases, the tax problems of sports clubs, as well as the corrections that are taking place in this context, are much greater and go much further than just the drinks receipts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u58	Madam Minister, I am pleased to note that the drinks receipts are only a small problem and do not need to be the top priority right away. However, I would like to stress the need to work towards a solution to the problem. We must not lose sight of the children who pay for their cola or bag of chips with a receipt. I can suggest a solution that you can pass on to your colleague. Why are these drinks vouchers not considered as a gift of low value, i.e. up to a maximum of EUR 50? In that case, the clubs simply have to refund 6 % VAT to the purchase price. It goes without saying that clubs must comply with the rules. However, it creates uncertainty when one tax authority requests 6% and the other tax authorities 21% on the purchase price. Ignorance doesn't go with IRS. As caution is the mother of the porcelain shop, so transparency and clarity must be the mother of the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u59	Madam Minister, indeed, a reasonable application of the rules and information campaigns I hear that there will be such a thing as a very important one. We can look even further and do something structural. One of the ideas could be to raise the exemption rules for small businesses and non-profit organisations. If the current exemption amount of EUR 25,000 is increased, it may also cover the smallest clubs, which means that they do not have to submit a VAT return or pay VAT. That also solves the problem. That piste is definitely worth an investigation. This solution also reduces the planning burden of the associations. The many volunteers who are active in the associations every day must be fully supported, rather than amplify.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u60	Madam Minister, at the end of this year the very last windmills at sea will be put into operation. From next year onwards 2.2 million Belgian families will receive cheap wind energy from at home. 2020 is also the year in which we have to meet the European target of 13% renewable energy. We have a wonderful story, when it comes to offshore wind energy, yet that is not enough. Indeed, the figures for reporting on achieving this objective show that we will not achieve them. We're short almost 1,500 GWh. Your own administration drew your attention to the fact that the figures we are going to communicate to Europe may not be entirely correct. Madam Minister, I have a few brief questions about this. Firstly, what will we tell Europe? Will we achieve our objective, in particular the federal share of the objective for which you are responsible? Secondly, what will you do to move a few more gears this year? Over the next five years, we will be able to achieve enormous acceleration. After all, the wind energy sector at sea is ready to build the second zone. It takes one and a half to two years to buy the windmills, build the foundations and install the turbines. However, we are also responsible for the previous journey. We must ensure that the legislation is correct and that agreements are made with the system operator. My third question is therefore what you will do to speed up the realization of the second wind farm at sea, so that we can really start the energy transition over the next five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u61	Dear colleague, the year 2020 has just begun, so we have to see until the end of the year what the wind availability will be and what the final gross consumption of the inhabitants of this country will be, which will allow us to calculate whether, at the federal level, we will achieve our efforts by renewing with the offshore. You are aware that three parks are in the process of being finalized: Northwester 2, scheduled for commissioning in the second quarter, and Seastar and Mermaid – who have merged to become SeaMade – whose commissioning is scheduled for the end of this year. We expect to be able to achieve the efforts to which we committed ourselves and which we calculated in 2015. Today, when you compare our 2015 forecasts and the reporting of my administration based on assumptions that have not yet been realized, we have a 2% difference. So we were not far away and I think we are going to do this, especially because there is too little in Flanders and Brussels but a lot in Wallonia and this is going to make up for it. For 2030, we voted for a federal legislative framework to launch public procurement to cover much of our North Sea with wind fields. Whether for the completion of the parks in 2020 or for the construction of the parks in 2030, I am in constant contact with the operators and Elia so that this work can proceed as quickly as possible. Like you, we are convinced that the sooner we go, the more and the better we can achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u62	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. Our country benefits from a serious energy policy. Only with a sharp vision and a serious policy will we be able to deliver results. Today, a sector that provides tens of thousands of jobs in our country says it can. If the sector says it can do it, then we must do everything we can to facilitate the realisation. So the responsibility lies with us. We must ensure that the energy transition accelerates. We can do that. We have to do that. The citizens are asking us. We can work on it together here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u63	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u64	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Robby De Caluwe, Goedele Liekens, Caroline Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u66	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u67	Mr President, today we are voting on a law establishing a committee for the reimbursement of pharmaceutical products and benefits in kind. It is a new body, which must decide on the conditions for reimbursement for, for example, probe feeding or material for diabetics. Today, the procedure is very complex and the process takes a long time. It is therefore in the interests of patients that the system should work faster and more transparently. The programme and the law also included the composition of the committee that will determine the refunds. Firstly, it seems very important to us that the joint composition should be maintained, with the presence of the insurance institutions which defend the interests of patients in the broad sense of the word. We are also very pleased that the PVDA proposal was adopted by a very large majority. The aim was also to give patients' associations a place and a consultative vote in the committee. Why is that important? Patients' associations are well aware of the specific needs and difficulties experienced by patients in terms of reimbursement conditions. Let me give you the example of probe feeding. Today there are serious shortcomings in the reimbursement of probe feeding. The Flemish Patient Platform suggested that patients should advance large amounts and that there is no third-payer scheme. That's what I experienced myself with a cancer patient. The company refused to supply the food because the patient had no money to pay the big advance. So he literally ran out of food. The Muco association, which is the association of muco patients, is currently giving that money to the patients themselves, in order to get it repaid afterwards. The patients' associations also denounce the high administrative burden and the lack of intake of the probe feed for adults, for example in the maximum bill. With this example, I would like to point out that the knowledge of patients' organisations is high. I therefore hope that their vote and their presence in committee will help to ensure that the concerns are really heard. Another problem in the composition of the committee is that the industry is present and has an advisory vote. This presence and industry participation in a decision-making body is unacceptable to the PTB. We have the same problem in parallel with the Commission for Reimbursement of Medicinal Products, where the industry's presence weighs heavily on decisions. It is direct and indirect pressure that is put on participants and in their decision-making. This is described by many people. Some spoke of a balance. Because patients were introduced, it was necessary to keep the industry. But there is no comparison here. The financial weight, the weight of industry lobbying, of course, cannot be compared to the weight and voice of patients. For this reason, by our amendment, we propose simply to abolish the presence of industry in this committee. This will enable the members of this committee to make their decisions objectively, without pressure from industry and in the sole interest of patients and our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u68	The abolition of the Technical Pharmaceutical Council, the Technical Council for Diagnostics and Care Equipment, which proposed reimbursement of medical resources, as well as the Working Party on Medical Nutrition, which proposed reimbursement of medical nutrition, is intended not only to simplify administrative procedures but also to speed up the procedure. We can only welcome that. Despite the fact that the bill had been in force for 14 months, it still ended up with the committee. That made it a little hard to work. Because the bill makes the organisation more workable and the operation more efficient and it benefits our people, we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u69	I would like to congratulate Mrs Dewulf for her maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, when a government is in current affairs, Parliament has many freedoms. It is good that Parliament is taking advantage of these freedoms and taking initiatives. However, Parliament also has responsibilities during that period. A minimum responsibility is to ensure that public institutions can continue to work. The proposal before us is mainly a technical proposal aimed at removing a blockage in the Health Insurance Act. The legislative proposal establishes the Commission for Repayment of Pharmaceutical Products and Benefits in order to avoid confusion with the existing Technical Pharmaceutical Council in view of the difference in powers. The Law on various provisions of 22 June 2016 provided for the merging of the Technical Pharmaceutical Council, the Board proposing the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind or, in specialist terms, the magistral preparations, and the Technical Council for Diagnostics and Care Equipment, which proposes the reimbursement of medical devices, and the Working Group on Medical Nutrition, which proposes the reimbursement of medical foods. The main reason for merging the three services is administrative simplification. Each decision of the three organs had to be carried out by a royal decree. This is often a very long procedure, while most of the time it concerns the adaptation of limitative lists with additions such as a type of blood pressure meter and a medical food drink with a new flavor. The patients know it's on the market and are waiting for their reimbursement. Therefore, the RIZIV has started to work out a procedure similar to the CTG procedure and the Commission's compensation implants and invasive medical devices. The Law of 22 June 2016 referred to an extension of the powers of the Technical Pharmaceutical Council. However, the RIZIV working group considered that the use of the same name could lead to confusion. In order to avoid confusion over powers, they propose that this new committee be renamed the Commission for the reimbursement of pharmaceutical products and benefits in kind. This name is more in line with the other committees. It is therefore a simple change of name, which has given rise to a number of questions. But that's actually wrong. As long as this law is not approved, the KB cannot be published and files remain with the RIZIV. The Council of State no longer accepts the old procedure because the law provided that it would enter into force on 1 January 2020. I therefore hope that everyone in this plenary will be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u71	Mr President, the latter is indeed the most important thing. Since 1 January 2020 there has been a gap and new funds cannot be repaid. For a lot of patients, this is very important. These are medical devices, medical nutrition, majestic preparations that need to be made for many patients, about capillary prostheses. It is important that patients who need this can also get these tools. The market is very innovative and moving. Since 1 January 2020 this can no longer be done with regard to the new resources. It's technical, but it's very important to patients. That is why we are pleased that we can participate in this and that we have been able to add the representatives of the patients, with their consultative voice. We did this as sp.a together with the colleagues of the PS. I have one more question for Madam Secretary. It is essential that we adopt this law, but also that the RB is dealt with quickly in order to implement it. These KBs are about the rules of procedure and the composition. The Minister's cabinet assistant said that the KBs are ready. I hope that this is also the case and that they can be signed tomorrow, so to speak. For example, the Technical Pharmaceutical Board, the equivalent of the CTG, will be able to launch the Committee on Meals and Medicines soon and can provide patients with the resources they need and which are part of an accessible healthcare system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u72	I thank all the speakers. The merging of three bodies into one advisory council will make it possible to deal more efficiently with people and resources, all the more so because we often see the same people in different ways. The addition of patient organisations continues the process of involving them in policy at an earlier stage, as they have already been introduced into the medicines agency and other organs. The royal decisions are indeed ready, Mr Bertels. We will publish them as a matter of urgency, because the files are waiting. The Council of State no longer accepts those submitted with the previous names.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u73	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u74	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (378/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (378/5) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u75	Art. 4 • 5 – Sofie Merckx (378/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u76	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u77	Sustained: the amendment and Article 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u78	Article adopted by article: 1 to 3, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment retained, the article retained, and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u80	By e-mail dated January 31, 2020, Ms.Annick Ponthier announced the withdrawal of the bill (Ms. Barbara Pas and Ellen Samyn and MM. Steven Creyelman, Dries Van Langenhove and Pieter De Spiegeleer) amending the Act of 14 January 1975 regulating the discipline of the armed forces with a view to enabling the military to exercise political mandates (850/1) (art. 86 Rgt.). By e-mail dated 31 January 2020, Ms Annick Ponthier announced the repeal of the bill (Mrs Barbara Pas and Mrs Ellen Samyn and Mr Steven Creyelman, Mr Dries Van Langenhove and Pieter De Spiegeleer) amending the law of 14 January 1975 laying down the disciplinary rules of the armed forces with a view to the admission of military forces to the exercise of political mandates (850/1) (Art. 86 Rgt.).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u81	Article 24, § 4, paragraph 2, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners stipulates that members of the Bureau shall perform their duties on a full-time basis and shall not engage in any other professional activity during their term of office. The House of Representatives may grant derogations from this prohibition. The second paragraph of Article 24 (4) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees provides that the members of the Office are to perform their duties full-time and cannot engage in any other professional activity during the duration of their term of office. The Chamber of Representatives may grant derogations from that prohibition. By On 6 January 2020, Marc Nève, President of the Central Prison Supervision Board, asked for a derogation from this prohibition. By e-mail dated 6 January 2020, Mr Marc Nève, President of the Central Supervisory Council for the Prisoners, requested a derogation from that ban. I suggest that we accept this request, but not make it a habit. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u82	By e-mail of 6 January 2020, Guy Cox communicates that he submits his candidacy only for an effective term as a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. By e-mail of 6 January 2020, Mr Guy Cox stated that he wished to submit his candidacy only for a mandate from an effective member of the Management Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. As a result, there are no longer enough candidates to be able to appoint all Dutch-speaking alternate members. As a result, there are not enough candidates to be able to make the appointment of all Dutch-speaking alternate members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 February 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of Dutch-speaking alternate members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 February 2020, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, last week we adopted an amendment to the bill that is now being put to the vote. That was why the vote on the whole was postponed to today's sitting. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u84	Mr President, with the proposal that has been put to the vote today, there is a solution to the police areas. That's very good! However, the choice is made to return the bill of more than 46 million to the local authorities, once it is not customary, thus putting the municipalities and CPAS in difficulty. I repeat that for us, it is not the local authorities, through the APL fund, that must continue to open the purse cordons. That is why we will abstain from this bill. But as we are obstinate in nature, I would like to announce that we will come back to the budgetary discussions to find a solution for the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u85	Mr President, it is clear that the government has made a mess of financing the pensions of the local police. Last week there was a very good amendment here that gave the government the opportunity to keep the promises made, but instead we were given a charade here, which had nothing to do with the content. We will not vote against because we consider the acquired rights of the workers to be very important, but we will not vote for the proposed funding that our local authorities are plundering. The PVDA will therefore abstain and continue to consider sustainable funding of police end-of-life measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u86	Mr President, as far as we are concerned, we have also strongly regretted the amendment which was introduced in plenary last week and which destroyed the hope that we had had during the passage of this text into committee. Indeed, for the first time in a long time, the federal government was preparing to correct a blatant injustice to local authorities, on whose back it was rather quick to postpone the charges. I will save you the considerations that we could share in terms of funding the relief zones. In any case, the many municipalists know very well what reality we are talking about, since - and the President will remember this reform - instead of joint funding, we are now finding that we are 78% funded by the municipalities and only 22% by the federal government. As far as police areas are concerned, the bill is the same acabit. This is a real problem. That is why I am going to abstain, in order to express our disagreement with the postponement of charges against the communal authorities. On the other hand, the rest of the CDH will support the text, because we are aware of its importance to the police personnel who were waiting for it. This issue must prevail in the balance of interest. In any case, let us not lose sight, and this was pointed out by some colleagues, that justice must also be able to apply between levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u87	Mr President, we regret that the amendment, as approved in committee, was defeated last week. Nevertheless, we will abstain because we believe that the acquired rights of police officers should be safeguarded. We also believe that there should be compensation for the local authorities in the financing, although we would have preferred the federal government to have taken full responsibility for this funding. That's why we're abstaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u88	Is anyone still asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Is anyone else asking for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 89 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill, as amended. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (895/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the legislative proposal as amended. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (895/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Apparently, I didn't vote myself. I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u89	Mr President, I voted from the wrong place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u90	You're moving all the way in the direction of the N-VA Group? But you voted in favour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u91	Vote on Amendment No 5 of Sofie Merckx to Article 4. (378/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Sofie Merckx on Article 4. (378/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[12]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u92	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u93	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u94	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (378/7) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (378/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-06-55-plenair-ip023x.u95	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. MM. Benoît Piedboeuf and Stefaan Van Hecke tabled a report of the Prosecution Committee on the prosecution of a member of the House of Representatives, No. 982/1. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke submitted a report from the Commission for the Persecutions on prosecutions charged with a member of the Chamber of Representatives, No. 982/1. I suggest that you also include this item on the agenda for the next sitting. I propose that this item be included in the agenda of the next plenary session. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 13, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 February 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
