ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work. I must apologise to the chairman who is likely to be retained in another committee. My old age gives me the privilege of presiding over today's session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u2	I have indeed put forward a number of questions on a subject that interests us all very much, namely the future of telecommunications, 5G. I asked my first question in plenary, but so far I have not received an answer. Has our country also received a letter of warning from the U.S. government, via the embassy or the intelligence services? I understood from an article in the press that this was the case in Germany. Have you heard of such a letter or an oral communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u3	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u4	In connection with the cooperation between Huawei and the Chinese security services, I read in the German Handelsblatt that some sort of tuxedo gun had been found. The Americans would have shared information with different services which would show that there are a number of security issues related to Huawei. Do you have any information on that? My final question concerns the provisional rights of use that the BIPT will now grant. As far as security is concerned, to what extent will the BIPT grant the new licences on the basis of the criteria that Europe offers us through the toolbox? That is a big issue. There are a number of so-called untrusted vendors. I understand that the wording was slightly changed: today they are no longer called untrusted vendors, because that may be disrespectful in the eyes of a number of countries, but now they are called high-risk vendors. That is the more politically correct way of naming them. As far as the high-risk vendors are concerned, I saw in the toolkit that that name is not so much related to the technical aspects of the provider, but rather to the biotope in which the company is located. For example, where is the headquarters of the company concerned? What kind of policy is there? Is it an autocracy or a democracy? Is the country where the company is based known for offensive cyber techniques? What about the checks-and-balances over there? Is there a free and independent court there? All these cases raise questions for a number of operators operating in our country today. There aren't that many suppliers of 5G software. Who's gonna decide who's a high-risk vendor? Is that a task for you, Minister? Is that a task for BIPT on the basis of the State Security Recommendations? I understand that the security of the State is not very happy to point the finger at a number of companies themselves. They outline the framework. That's what Europe does. Is it the operators themselves who decide whether the partner they want to work with is a high-risk vendor? You could replicate that you do not want to name names and that the operators should simply ensure that the rules we have drawn up are followed. How are the licences granted by BIPT? Is there going to be an auction or not? Is that free? Can everyone become a telecom operator and claim part of that spectrum? This would open up the possibility for a fourth operator, who also wants to participate. Or are we staying with the operators who are already on the market today? What financial guarantees will be required from the operators who would like a 5G licence? I understand that this is based on the telecoms law of 2005, in which the BIPT itself can take a number of steps. I read in the press that the BIPT has taken action following your insistence. Is that a political action or an action of the BIPT itself? You welcomed that, which is good, but I would like to know whether it is entirely independent by the BIPT, because the government is now in business. So much for the different questions I'm dealing with. I hope I can get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u5	Minister, although this is a very wide-ranging subject, I will confine myself to the questions I have put, but we will certainly have a lot of discussions on it. In a European report, the NIS Cooperation Group considers 5G infrastructure providers from outside Europe bound to their government to be a most serious threat to future mobile networks. Non-EU States would thus acquire additional opportunities to launch attacks on telecommunications networks of Belgium and other EU Member States. The European Commission is currently looking at what needs to be done at European level or at Member State level in order to provide a response to this problem and to comply with the necessary security measures. The State Safety and the ADIV stated in the hearing in this Committee on 11 December 2019 that there may be substantial risks related to such suppliers. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. How do you evaluate the European approach at the moment? What's your vision on that? What is Belgium's position on European fora? What safety guidelines on the risks to critical infrastructure will be imposed? Will directives be issued in good time or will this be done only after a possible auction? What legal basis exists to exclude equipment from outside the EU for security reasons? Do you consider an additional legislative initiative useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u6	Mr Minister, at the same time I introduced your colleague, Mr. De Crem, a question about 5G, more specifically about safety. I don't know how you split things up. I hear my colleagues go back to that. Perhaps you will be able to answer us on behalf of the government. My question to you concerns the interim solutions proposed by the IBPT. The IBPT cannot be blamed for both ensuring the functioning of 2G and 3G and also organizing the future deployment of 5G. But this raises an important question at the democratic level because there is no government decision on these interim measures. When we know the economic, health and safety implications, we can indeed question this position which we believe should be covered by politics. I would like to know the government's position on the IBPT's announcements on this deployment and these interim licences. Do you support this proposal? The press reports that the IBPT would only target certain sectors such as e-health or automation. What about it? Can you enlighten us? Is the coming of 5G not an emergency that a very day-to-day government needs to deal with more fully? What about taking into account the recommendations of the European Commission's safety toolbox last week? To what extent is Belgium prepared to listen to these recommendations? Do you intend to allow all equipment manufacturers in our territory? This is more about security. I am thinking in particular of producer Huawei often pointed at the security of the data that could circulate. We know that the United States has taken a position of principle and is trying to influence the European Union to do the same. Europe has undoubtedly been more nuanced by the choice of equipment manufacturers, but this still raises questions. We know that the second and third most advanced in the development of 5G are Europeans. How does the government position itself against this? By exclusives - definitely, is it a fashionable term? Or does he say that we must guarantee a number of security measures - without necessarily putting Huawei out of play - to deploy the 5G? In summary, there is the security aspect and there is the IBPT aspect. Mr Minister, I must say that I wonder: through a small "legislative circle", how is it possible to deploy part of 5G without a democratic decision, i.e. a government and/or Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u7	We know that there is still uncertainty about health issues in relation to 5G. The medium- and long-term effects are not clear. The fear of radiation has led to stricter emission standards in the Brussels-Capital Region. These are far below European standards. In its coalition agreement, the Brussels Government stated its intention to participate in the roll-out of 5G through a possible increase in these standards to 14.5 volts per metre. The European Commission approved a toolbox for the 5G networks. You argued earlier at the European Telecoms Council for a common European approach. This will now come, with this set of opinions, which will help Member States to reduce the risks associated with the roll-out of 5G. The European Commission calls on all Member States to take concrete and measurable steps by 30 April. We have heard that the BIPT itself will grant the provisional user rights for 5G. The BIPT has the possibility of granting these rights provisionally in the absence of specific rules. In theory, interested parties could roll out 5G all over the country from June onwards. Then it should be clear who gets the user rights. Firstly, can you clearly state the situation? Have you already consulted with the Brussels-Capital Region, and do you see any progress there? Is there a willingness to relax the stricter standards? Or what's it gonna take in return to do that? Secondly, have concrete steps been taken on the security aspect of 5G? What steps are there to take in this process now that the toolbox is there? Thirdly, how do you view the provisional distribution of user rights by BIPT? Does this affect the later spectrum auction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u8	Mr President, Minister, on behalf of the MR Group, I welcome the organisation of this debate. We are pleased with the decision of the IBPT to allocate frequency bands not included in the order, pending a political decision. In our view, this will lead to progress and better knowledge. As the motion for a resolution before me demonstrates, the MR has always wanted to make progress in this area. However, this must be done in accordance with the precautionary principle, both in terms of health and safety, on the basis of the relevant international recommendations. Minister, let me ask you a few questions. First, in your view, is the decision of the IBPT a real step forward in allowing for a first deployment? Will this allow smaller companies to progress or, on the contrary, should it be considered that only large companies can launch these tests? If so, how will you make all economic actors aware of this? My second question relates to emission standards that are known to differ from region to region. Are they, as it stands, sufficient for these test phases? Following the ambiguous statements made by the Brussels Minister, Mr Maron, will the Brussels companies, in your view, be able to move forward on this matter? Thirdly, concerning Huawei, it is known that the company is subject to the obligation to comply with Chinese legislation and therefore to cooperate with its government. However, given the specific nature of Belgium, this question poses a problem. Despite the framework set by the Union, divergent attitudes are perceived between the Member States of the Union. What is your position on the Huawei equipment manufacturer? Will a Huawei ban be a guarantee for our national security? Indeed, even in the absence of Huawei equipment, systems can still rely on software developed in China. In addition, software can be reprogrammed remotely by malicious actors. Technically, a problem would be that Huawei does not always guarantee interoperability with other equipment manufacturers. However, solutions must be possible, depending on the state, as it seems that some use Huawei and other equipment manufacturers. Can you, Minister, confirm Huawei's interoperability with other equipment manufacturers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u9	Minister, there is a lot to say about 5G and I can therefore agree with the various questions and comments made by my colleagues, including the alleged impact on health. With regard to the impact on health, I do not know that there are any reports that indicate genuinely worrying health risks. This does not, of course, mean that we are allowed to sleep on our two ears and to let go. The basic principle, the rule of thumb of caution, must of course be maintained. The radiation standard must not exceed what is really necessary in practice for a properly functioning network. Moreover, in the future, a thorough monitoring and evaluation is needed to ensure rapid intervention in the event of adverse effects on public health. The safety of the installations has already been discussed in the questions about the Chinese provider Huawei. That is an important point, because we want to avoid at all costs that a foreign power would have the opportunity to shut down our infrastructures at the push of a button. There is an additional problem of cybersecurity when, among other things, public services, police and Defence would also use the 5G network. Here too, the principle of caution is appropriate. We are better off going alone with reliable partners who have no links with or who are not supported by a foreign government. User privacy is also an important issue that raises questions. With 5G, it will be possible to locate users much more accurately than is currently possible. Such big data can not only be used to create user profiles, but also, for example, to check with whom users maintain contacts. In this sense, the 5G network can provide benefits for, for example, the fight against crime and terrorism. However, we must preserve respect for the privacy of citizens, as we do not want to end up in a police state under the motto big brother is watching you any place any time. The current legislation in this area may need to be reviewed and, where necessary, updated with new initiatives. Whether the high costs are justified is, of course, a question for the telecom operators who will roll it out. That's up to them. However, this should not lead to an increase in telecom charges. We are already among the most expensive countries in Europe in terms of tariffs. Whether we need such a network effectively is a question that can also be asked internally in, for example, a production company. I do not think that many companies are jumping to get rid of their cable infrastructure and replace it with 5G. The high data speeds are less important for these companies. For them it is especially important that there is a solid, reliable connection. People who are on the track and use the mobile network will benefit from 5G, both private and professional. I am thinking, for example, of a representative who is on the job all day and will be able to quickly consult company data on customer visits or to private YouTube and Netflix users for their streaming videos. The amount of data is only increasing. In this respect, better mobile and fixed connections are, of course, necessary. I look forward to your answers to the various questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u10	Are there other members who want to intervene? [[No]] Then we pass the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions you have put in the context of the current topical and urgent debate. I have already made it very clear in recent months that in my opinion the roll-out of 5G in Belgium should be an absolute priority. It has a huge impact on the digitisation of our country, on the economy and on employment. We should therefore speed up this roll-out as quickly as possible. Since in the countries around us the auctions for the 5G frequencies have already taken place or are about to take place, we have absolutely no time to lose to enable the 5G roll-out in Belgium. It is therefore that, like my predecessor Alexander De Croo, I have done everything I can since the beginning of 2019 to make the roll-out possible. We also attended a meeting of a Consultative Committee just before the elections and made an ultimate proposal, in particular to organise the auction of frequencies and to discuss the distribution of the money later. That proposal was not accepted at the time. Since then, we have only been looking for solutions to enable the 5G roll-out in Belgium. We are working on a solution in the short term and a final solution afterwards. We also work on the aspects of cybersecurity and security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u12	I would like to briefly explain these three elements. In the short term, we will provide for two things. First, we provide for 2G and 3G licences which expire in March 2021. There is European pressure to make it available again, and that is why we have provided for an extension of six months each until a final auction can take place. In this way, operators will be able to switch the frequencies they are using today to new frequencies that can possibly be bought in the auction by March next year. The auction should take place in September, but this timing will, of course, be very tight and is no longer feasible. An extension of the existing 2G and 3G licences is therefore essential. That is the first element of the short-term solution. The other element is that I have asked BIPT to provide already 5G frequencies for the time being, pending the auction for the licences. Article 22 of the Telecommunications Act provides for this possibility. The IBPT may do so without the need for a government decision or agreement within the Consultation Committee. We made this request to the IBPT and it launched its consultations this Friday. These frequencies allow 5G applications in different sectors, not just health or automation. They are suitable for local applications in companies and for geographically defined applications. They can be used for industrial sites, ports and sports stadiums, but they are not so suitable for the development of a rural network. By making these frequencies available, we are at least ensuring that the roll-out can meet the demands of industry and the economy itself. We have also considered the provisional provision of 700 MHz frequencies. We have contacted the operators for this. At the moment and until mid 2021 they have no interest in doing so, as the operators themselves have stated. There is therefore no point in making those frequencies available. The provisional posting is therefore limited to the 3,5 GHz frequencies. This will enable applications in the economy and industry to start today. The fact that they can take them into service before the summer means that the Belgian economy will not start to lag behind the auctions or awards that have already taken place abroad. That is the short-term solution that we have provided. It is therefore a temporary concession to existing demand, in the market and in operators, in order to be able to use the 5G frequencies. Local and smaller applications such as Citymesh can now use this and will in principle have 5G available by the summer. Those frequencies will open up to interested parties. Firstly, that will undoubtedly be the three major operators, but also other players can, if they so wish, apply to get a part of the spectrum. This is therefore about the short-term and the unblocking of the dossier in order to be able to introduce 5G in Belgium by the summer, but that only makes sense if a long-term perspective is created and a definitive solution is sought. In this area too, we have continued to work on two issues in recent weeks and months. Firstly, there is a high demand for 5G frequencies for private networks. Most companies that want to build their own 5G network have to rely on an operator who is developing a virtual private network. A minority of companies may want their own private network with their own frequencies. To operate that last group of companies, an additional 400 MHz may be made available to 5G frequencies. Unfortunately, this cannot be done in the short term, because we need a decision by a government with full power to do so. Another aspect is that I have asked BIPT to make a study to determine how large the part of media use will be in the networks. The discussion was partly about how many media would be involved in these networks and how the proceeds of the auction would be distributed between the Regions, Communities and the federal level. The BIPT will complete this study by the end of February. I have not yet been able to see the first results, but the spirit of the study indicates that the media share will be rather modest. It may even be less than 20%. That also makes sense, because data flows and media use are increasing significantly but at a much larger volume. As a result, the percentage of media use will be much smaller than the Communities thought. Some people were already counting on 80% of media use. However, that will certainly not be the case. I now put a new proposal on the table. The part that will not be allocated to the Communities and the Regions in that distribution could be used to support investment in the 5G ecosystem. This could include smart city applications for local authorities, innovative industrial applications or media applications. After all, one can think of a multitude of applications. This could possibly be regulated by a cooperation agreement between the regions and the federal level. For example, the investments can be divided between the three regions, allowing them to identify what they want to invest in as a priority and the criteria for doing so. This could give a strong boost to the 5G ecosystem in all regions. Indeed, the proceeds of that auction could be invested directly in 5G applications. In this way we go from a middle position to the head of the peloton on 5G applications. That is a proposal that we will have to test further in the next few days and weeks. I have launched this thinking track in recent weeks to see if there is sufficient support for it, so that we can find a solution for the definitive unblocking of the 5G frequencies. On the other hand, we know very well that in the foreseeable future, almost all of our economy will be dependent on our 5G infrastructure. That is why securing our 5G networks, which we are currently doing, is a key element. Therefore, from day 1 at European level, we have called for a European risk analysis to involve all the information available on the possible problems and risks in the deployment of 5G in a European approach. We received the risk analysis in March and at the end of January the toolbox containing the mitigation measures to address the European Commission's problems and safety analysis. Now that the toolbox is available, the European Commission has asked us to take steps to implement those security measures by 30 April. By 30 June, we will have to prepare a report for the European Commission on the state of play in the Member States. You can see that this timeline is similar to the provisional availability of the 5G frequencies. If we want to do that by the summer, we still have until 30 April to decide what the security of these networks should look like. That is also a deadline that we absolutely want to meet. Action needs to be taken on three fronts. Firstly, there is the tightening of the security requirements for the mobile operators themselves. Secondly, the imposition of restrictions on high-risk suppliers. Thirdly and a very important element of that toolbox, we need to ensure that every operator develops a multi-vendor strategy. It is therefore not possible to rely on one particular type of vendor, as is the case today. We have only Huawei and ZTE in our networks, so a multi-vendor strategy will have to be applied. The toolbox clearly does not target specific countries or suppliers. The toolbox calls on Member States to evaluate the risk profile of suppliers and to take into account the criteria set out in the risk assessment, including the risk of interference by third countries. The high-risk vendors are linked to the question of whether they are state-independent, from which country they come and whether there is an intention to violate telecoms from that country. Sweden and Finland are not one of them, and no doubt other countries do. It is now up to BIPT to examine, together with the security services, what the scenarios and security measures should look like. As soon as this investigation has been completed and the security services have drawn up an assessment of the different scenarios and the risk profile of the different suppliers, this will be discussed and decided by the National Security Council. This is a political decision which will then have to be converted by the government and Parliament into a clear legal basis in order to implement in practice the measures proposed by the risk analysis. It is very important to me that we do this in a correct and proper way. We have that toolbox now. Let us see how we can get to work on this in the next few weeks. Other issues concerned health, which fell within the competence of the different regions. It is therefore up to them to set the standards they want to implement on their territory. It is therefore the Regions that must be addressed. Basically, I'm a scientist. I have not yet seen any studies that have shown a real problem. It is necessary that reason prevails and that we stick to the facts. Facts and figures remain important as well as making a decision to have 5G applications throughout our country and especially in large cities. Finally, I have no knowledge of a secret document. I don't know about a tuxedo gun. We do, of course, have contacts with the capitals of several countries, but I have no knowledge of a secret document which the German authorities would have produced. In any case, this has not been notified. I think I have answered all the questions. If that's not the case, I'd like to go into that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive and clear answer. From your answer, I understand that the three existing operators may apply to buy up part of the spectrum of 5G. It is important, however, that the discussion about a fourth operator does not take a flight ahead without the agreement of a majority in this country. I read that BIPT will charge 10,500 euros per megahertz, including for the temporary 5G applications. This will be sold in bands between 20 MHz and 50 MHz. That's an investment of half a million dollars for Proximus if she wants to sign up for it. If that auction did happen, that amount would be cancelled. We know that there will soon be a new government, of course, joking, and possibly also those auctions. What guarantee do the operators have that they won't see their investment from 250,000 to 500,000 euros go up in smoke in half a year if there is an auction? Did you think about that? Can some sort of rebate be used? I had another question about the safety aspect. You have said a lot about this, but can you guarantee that the importance of safety and the co-existence of the various services will be included in what the BIPT is about to do and that the same European security questions will be introduced in the short term? What about the applications we're seeing now? Today Proximus announced that a memorandum was signed with the port of Antwerp. Is it ensured that such initiatives will now take account of the increased security questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I will confine myself to the new idea you are launching here. You say that the money you will not spend on the Communities and the Regions wants to invest directly in certain projects. That raises a number of questions for me. If you want to pump that money directly into investments, is there no state aid? Has it been examined whether this is considered State aid or not? The government is now in business. Is it within its competence to conduct such cases? Or are you just launching the idea, and should this be further agreed within the next government? You say that there should be a cooperation agreement with the regions and the Communities in this area. Then the political issue is still who will get what project and where the money will be invested. There will have to be a certain balance in this. In fact, this is pushing the issue forward. What is the opinion of the operators on this? Have they been consulted? If so, what is their opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u15	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I would like to re-examine two or three elements and share a more global reflection. It is not at all a question, in our leadership, to refuse the deployment of 5G for the reasons that some have mentioned. That is not at all, but it is true that the situation raises questions. I am not saying that the IBPT is outlawed, but we can still wonder when we know that it is a matter that, politically, is of interest to everyone. Indeed, we feel a little bit like things are happening behind our backs. This continues to raise questions even if the option is not to say that nothing should be done. It is known that this has a significant economic impact that is naturally shaped by the health aspect of the federated entities. The situation also raises safety questions that you have answered widely, but also environmental questions. All these questions necessarily question policies. We have the impression that this escapes us somewhat, while the deployment of the 5G is colossal and impacts many areas. On the security issues that you mentioned, you said that you were going to look at things by trying each time to mention all the necessary standards for optimal security. In this interim phase, are these safety standards already active? You also said that you were going to develop them with the government or that the future government was going to develop them. What is the current status of the interim system put in place and designed by the IBPT? Secondly, on the more definitive aspect, I read that France had voted or was going to vote a law which in the end gives a form of authorization to the minister responsible or to the Prime Minister as to the choice of operators. Do you think of a system like this? There, we're really in absolute security. You may find it very interventionist, but the Macron government is not a priori such a government. Do you intend to impose a final departmental authorization?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u16	Mr President, Minister, I have another practical question. As far as the BIPT pilot project is concerned, is it a problem to start already in Brussels, as admission is still very limited? I found Mrs Dierick's comment interesting, but I also find it interesting to think in the other direction, with the new idea you are launching. Other governments should also decide to invest in a 5G network, which should not only be extended over a small territory, but should be supported everywhere. It is perhaps better that a part can be financed directly, which means that not every mayor should judge something that can make it difficult to roll out. After all, it is difficult to explain that to everyone. A basic investment, which is needed for Belgium, may well be better done along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u17	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. If I may, I would like to ask you three more specific questions. We know that emission standards depend on the regions and therefore vary from one region to another. That being said, are these standards sufficient for the Brussels Region to start a test phase? Then I'd like to hear from you about the Huawei company. Simply put, would its prohibition offer a guarantee in terms of national security? Finally, can you confirm Huawei's interoperability with other equipment manufacturers? Indeed, it seems to me that you have not addressed this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Many things have also been mentioned in the replies that I would have liked to mention. I shall therefore confine myself to a few points. The European Commission had provided you with a toolbox for security, on which you should have a report available by 30 April 2020. We look forward to the content of that report. I would just like to stress that our little country Belgium must not be left behind in relation to the rest of Europe. We must not become the red lantern, as you call it. The 5G network is important for our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I have a few more questions. First of all, for your fixed-term solution, BIPT takes the initiative, which is legally possible, as you have explained yourself. I was wondering whether, in view of your long-term solution, where there would be a cooperation agreement with the Regions and not with the Communities, it could also be legally possible for you, in your capacity as Minister in a minority government, to take new initiatives in current cases to go to the Consultation Committee. I would have liked to have heard the answer to that question from you. Secondly, I also have a few questions about timing. You are talking about the study that would be completed by the end of February 2020. Is it not useful to wait for the result of this before the talks with the regions and probably with the Communities in the second instance? Or, on the other hand, will you make that conversation faster? It's not clear to me yet. Thirdly, the next question is also about timing, but above all about the safety story. We held hearings on 5G here in committee a while ago. For many of us, the statements made by the security services in particular have had a great deal of impact and have made an impression. In particular, there were many uncertainties about the safety story. Minister, to what extent has that story been clarified for you? The BIPT would also carry out a study and write a report on the additional costs associated with the application of the safety levels. What's the status of that? You're proposing the timing very tight. Something should be done by the end of April 2020, so that 5G can be rolled out by June 2020. Is this timing feasible and will it be so smooth? How can operators roll out 5G if they do not yet know what equipment they can buy? Will that be clear in time? The operators themselves talked about at least six months that they would need to do the roll-out. I would like to thank you for providing further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of specific questions have been asked, and I would like to go into more detail because it is important for the whole of the dossier. As far as the provisional licences currently being consulted are concerned, I think that the operators who are comfortable with the fact that they will also be able to bid in the future final auction will be the first to sign up for those provisional licences. The safety aspect is of course important. That is why we want to have the timing of 30 April, to which we must show the Commission and say what we want to do, because they will get those frequencies just before, by or shortly after the summer. The operators also know that there are security discussions going on. We have already told them that they must be cautious and think for themselves. I have given three elements in my answer. One of these elements is a closer security screening with the operators themselves. The exercise of how they want to work in a future 5G landscape around cybersecurity will also have to be made for themselves. A question was asked about rebates. I'm not a fan of rebates. These are the British, whom we have unfortunately had to say goodbye to this week. The cost of using a 5G frequency consists of two elements. A first is normally an organised, one-off payment. They pay through the auction. Another element is the administrative cost that one pays for the annual use of these frequencies. They'll just be paid if they'd been auctioned. The one-off contribution is only paid when the auction is over. That is the system that we have now implemented. The proposal I am making here today to finally unblock the dossier, to be able to make a direct investment and input to the ecosystem 5G in addition to the parts for the Regions and the Communities, is not something that we have gone over a night of ice; it is not something I have invented. We've been working on it for weeks to see if we can, and we can. That is not state aid, because there is a generic measure, so all sectors and all players can subscribe to it. This is covered by law and operators will also have to be consulted on it. That discussion will then take place, but it is important that we take the steps that need to be taken on the road to auctioning, the final solution. That is, therefore, first of all, the consultation, secondly, the Council of Ministers, thirdly, the Consultative Committee, and then we can organise this auction. I am working hard over the next few weeks to reach a consensus on this and to obtain an effective unblocking of the dossier. I hope for the cooperation of the various governments because it is a dossier that is really in the interests of the country. It transcends all political parties, in current cases or not. The allocation of these frequencies can also be done in current cases. Even with full authority, it would be my responsibility, and I accept it, to ensure that 5G frequencies can come on the market. These are a number of aspects that are important to give. The study on media use will also be completed in the coming weeks. This will also show that, for example, it will have to be filled in differently in Flanders. I do not want to wait, but I want to work in parallel on a number of tracks, so that they may eventually come together as soon as possible in a Consultative Committee, so that we can unblock this dossier. Then we can start the auction and roll out of 5G in Belgium as soon as possible. As far as security is concerned, you're right. The European Commission is asking us for some elements, which are already ready and which will be transmitted following the IBPT's reports with our security services. In the end, it will be up to the National Security Council to take a decision. It's the most feasible at the moment. We're not in a presidential system. I don't consider myself a president. But I think this is a decision taken with all the departments and politicians around the table. This is a necessary decision for the security of our country, and that we can even make in day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u21	Mr. Chair, Minister, as you know, the deployment of 5G raises many questions. However, this issue will focus on only one of the many issues, namely the sale of frequency bands. My question dates back several weeks. It has therefore lost some of its relevance, but remains relevant. I'll explain. The outcome of the future auction of these bands raises the delicate question of its distribution, given the disagreement between the federal government and the federated entities. In order to break this impasse, several avenues are being considered by your firm. Among these, one of the tracks is of particular interest to me: operators would be obliged to invest all or part of the money they would normally have to spend on the purchase of frequencies for the development of the 5G ecosystem. Minister, how likely are you to implement this measure? What are the views of federated entities and telecommunications operators? We can anticipate the fact that operators will make a comfortable profit thanks to the new economic opportunities that 5G will bring to them. Would it not be wiser, with the primary aim of defending the general interest, to cash the sum of the sale, on the one hand, and to require operators to invest a certain percentage of their profit in the development of the 5G ecosystem, on the other? It should also be noted that estimates of the auction of frequency bands amount to a few hundred million euros, a sum that is far from negligible. What do you think of this proposal? The proposal thus has the following advantage. All or part of the money raised by the government through sales could be invested in innovation related to 5G. We could then apply social and environmental criteria that meet the needs of the population and the planet. In addition, this measure would allow some of the operators' profits to be invested in the 5G ecosystem as well, rather than being given to shareholders. Thus, once again, the benefit would go to the community rather than to the private interests of a minority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u22	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, I think I have already answered some questions in our topical debate. Having said that, we are consulting with operators to see how to manage the process. And that's what the IBPT did last Friday. We therefore await the reactions of the three societies. In my view, they are all interested in this project. Moreover, in my view, it is not for the State to allocate the possible profits of an undertaking to a particular destination. We set out a framework that would encourage competition, innovation, the entry of products into the market that will or will not be of interest to consumers, etc. That's our duty. If a future government decides to tax profits – and, personally, I am not in favour of them – it is, of course, always possible. In any case, for my part, I advocate a healthy organisation of competition and a clear signal to be given to companies active in 5G, with a view to continuing their innovations and offering different services and products to consumers and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will therefore remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u24	Minister, my German-speaking fellow citizens are regularly confronted with the problem of geo-blocking when they want to watch German television content via the Internet. I would like to see if we can find solutions. I recently became aware that by changing the IP addresses of the people concerned, the problem could be solved. Indeed, I am told that it would be technically possible to assign them a German IP address. Minister, is it possible to implement this idea? If so, what procedures would be followed? If not, can you tell me why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, you know that, since 2018, a European regulation aims to counter unjustified geoblocking. Technically, it's not that simple. Indeed, it is always possible to use a Virtual Private Network (VPN). In addition, IP addresses are managed by an international organisation, independent of any country. The stakes are the same for people who, in Flanders, would like to catch Dutch television channels and for Francophones who would like to watch French channels. In short, your Community is not the only one affected by this issue. Moreover, the European regulation speaks of unjustified geoblocking. An opening therefore still exists, since geoblocking is not completely abolished. Some services providing access to copyright-protected content may still escape this regulation in a few countries. For example, this weekend, I wanted to watch the Super Bowl, which is normally broadcast on the BBC and TF1, but the broadcast on my TV was blocked. The sale of copyrights country by country is such that it is impossible to see this program when you are in Belgium. The exception contained in these Regulations deserves to be examined. However, this text has solved a lot of problems. This is how you can consult in another country the contents of a download in Belgium. However, this exception remains with respect to copyright-protected content. It is rare for this to apply to us, even if there are still cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that a directive has been taken and that it is not perfect. We will see how it will be implemented. When I talk about geoblocking, it concerns some German channels on the internet, for example. However, if this outcome does not appear practical – which I can understand, given the reasons you gave me – could we not contact Proximus or Deutsche Telekom (the main operator for underground networks) to find solutions? I will therefore come back to ask you about this, unless you can answer me now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u27	Another important aspect is that we are talking about the technical path here. I don't think we can find a solution on this. In any case, the regulation is being revised. So, next March, we're going to reopen this discussion. That is one of the things we can do at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u28	Minister, I count on you to make the right contribution and therefore welcome it. Case to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u29	Mr President, Minister, according to the latest statistical data from the IBPT, 97% of our territory is now covered by the fast mobile internet. This is obviously excellent news, especially since our average is above the European average. Unfortunately, however, some municipalities are not sufficiently connected, particularly in the province of Liège and the German-speaking cantons. I will mention in particular the municipalities of Waimes, Stoumont and Raeren. For every citizen, connectivity is an essential element of integration, access to information or access to employment. And for each municipality concerned, connectivity is an essential element of economic stimulation but also an asset to boost construction or tourism. It's a sales item. Minister, various initiatives have already been taken to encourage operators to invest in white and grey areas. Among these, there was a reduction in regulatory constraints, including a reduction in the amount of fees of 80%, to which operators must subject themselves. Minister, what is your assessment of these benefits in relation to the objective pursued? Are you aware of short-term investments in these sensitive areas? If so, within what time frame? As a minister in charge of telecommunications, you have the power to instil a policy of service to the public, notably via Proximus. Do you make connecting these grey areas a priority? Are you considering strengthening network coverage constraints for all operators? Will you put these priorities on the agenda of your next consultations with Proximus? Finally, we know that jurisdiction is not simply federal. It will also be based on consultation with the Walloon government. Do you intend to pursue this in a positive way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u30	Mr Rigot, first of all, it should be pointed out that the measure came into force six months ago. Maybe it's a little early to make an evaluation of it. I will still give some elements. The results of this measure, aimed at reducing the rights to use microwaves in white and grey areas by 80%, will be positive. Some steps have already been taken. I believe that, thanks to the measures we have already taken, such as the fee for this spectrum, operators are able to offer fixed and fast internet access, based on microwave links, to several remote villages or fixed and fast internet access, based on fibre optic cables, which is not economically profitable at the moment. With regard to mobile coverage, I would point out that another important initiative is the cooperation agreement on tower taxes in the Walloon Region. For four years, operators have invested EUR 60 million and are open to renegotiating to continue these measures. In terms of fixed coverage, Proximus is currently investing in microwave links to provide fixed and fast Internet access. To date, Proximus has eight active optical equipment to provide such access. To the Felenne project activated at the end of 2017, seven more projects were added in 2019 in the communes of Marchin, Bouillon, Poperinge, Landen and Zoutleeuw. It's all over the place. We are not just investing on the Walloon side. Seven additional projects have been validated and will be implemented in the first two quarters of 2020. Proximus is currently studying a few dozen additional projects to be implemented eventually from the second half of 2020. In terms of mobile coverage, Proximus and Orange announced the signing of a network sharing agreement. This means that if frequencies are allocated, and this is provisionally the case now, we can move forward. This will also provide additional coverage. Indeed, if we can organise the final auction, we have put under conditions the elimination of white areas, and the obligation to invest much more in white and grey areas than now. This is a new argument to move forward with this auction of 5G frequencies, and to find an agreement between the various Regions and the federal government. I think I've gone through all the questions you asked me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is encouraging to note that there is a genuine political will to move forward. But, of course, it will depend on the operators. You have put conditions in the new agreements between Orange and Proximus, in particular. That's a good thing. I really count on you, and I will certainly come back if necessary, to ensure that these conditions are effectively implemented. The risk is always, in a commercial and economic area, to give priority to areas of high density, to increase coverage where there is a population. Areas that have been forgotten for too long should not be the victims of their rural nature or their low population density. Access is really crucial for everyone, to avoid the digital divide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u32	Minister, the social tariff for telecom products must be applied for by the customer himself; this is not automatically granted. Not all operators offer the social tariff. The law obliges operators with a turnover of more than 50 million euros to offer the social rate to customers. They will then have the choice of products which they offer at a social rate or not. Since 2016, Orange has been obliged to offer the social tariff on all its fixed telephony and fixed internet products. Orange, however, recently decided not to grant the social tariff mobile telephony any longer. That has a very big impact for a lot of customers. Only for the more expensive combination packages of telephone, TV and internet Orange still provides a social rate. Do you think it is logical that the social tariff should be made compulsory for fixed telephony and the Internet, but not for mobile services? How do you view the automatic allocation of the social tariff in the telecommunications sector? Finally, have you already had discussions with Orange on the recent decision not to grant the social tariff for mobile telephony?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u33	Thank you for the question. As early as 2005, the European Court ruled that social charges for mobile telephony no longer belong to the universal service. There is therefore no longer a legal obligation to offer a social tariff for mobile services. The reason for this is clear: prepaid cards or zero-rate cards can be obtained on the market today, with only consumption being paid. One can't go any lower than that. That's a first element. Secondly, I am absolutely in favour of the automatic granting of social rights. But we must also have the technical solutions. The BIPT has created an application which makes it possible to verify automatically whether all but certain conditions for the social tariff have been met, since it does not have all the data. It remains therefore necessary to take a step by the consumer or the citizen to make that request. I am in favour of a future government considering whether the information can not be obtained automatically and whether the rates can be automatically allocated. In the health sector, for example, Mrs De Block took steps in this direction, where many social rates are automatically awarded through an app, for which I would like to advertise again. Orange has absolutely not consulted with me on the social tariff. We have the right to maintain or not to maintain the social tariff. I have no final legislative elements in my hands to force Orange to re-introduce them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u34	Thank you for the answer, Minister. It is good to know that you are also in favour of automatic allocation. The automatic allocation would also give a great deal of attention in terms of working time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u35	Minister, I questioned you a few years ago about the abuse of patient data by insurance companies. That issue is burning again today. I would therefore like to return to the questions I asked you in 2016. In your reply, you then referred to an investigation by the Privacy Commission, now the Data Protection Authority. On the basis of the outcome of that study, you would consider whether more stringent regulations on access to the patient file and the exchange of data in it were necessary. I come to my questions. First of all, what was the outcome of that investigation by the Privacy Commission? Secondly, what recommendations did the Privacy Commission make then? Thirdly, have you complied with these recommendations? Why is that, or why not? Fourthly, what steps have you taken in recent years to better protect patients' privacy and prevent abuse by insurance companies? Fifthly, do you believe that additional steps can be taken to protect patients' privacy even better? Why is that, or why not? Sixthly and finally, you pointed out in your reply that the sectoral committee on social security and health would draw up a recommendation in collaboration with the Order of Doctors. Has that recommendation worked out in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u36	Thank you for these questions. I have responded publicly several times to what I read and heard about the access of insurance doctors to that data. I am indeed asking a lot of questions about this from the point of view of privacy. So I have to say that when this first came up in 2016, we already talked about it. I then asked the Privacy Commission to take action and launch an investigation. In the first instance, it provided feedback to those concerned who had lodged a complaint in a number of areas. If an insurance doctor gains access to a patient's file in which there is no therapeutic relationship, there is a breach of privacy. Period. That's very clear. That is why we must not only appeal to the deontological aspects of a doctor, even if he has the role of an insurance doctor. A hospital or an organisation must also take a number of technological steps to prevent this from happening. It is up to the hospital to take the appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect patient files against not only loss and theft, but also from unauthorised use. That was already the case with the paper files, by the way. If illegal access is provided, this is not only a criminal offence under privacy law, but also an infringement of Article 550a of the Criminal Code. There are nevertheless aggravating circumstances. If such practices continue, and if the doctors and hospitals do not adapt, the dish should push on the accelerator. There is, of course, the separation of powers. If the court wishes to investigate this, it can do so on the basis of this Article. As far as the deontological code is concerned, doctors must adhere strictly to it. In my previous reply I referred to the then sectoral committee on social security and health, which was at the time working on a recommendation, in cooperation with the Order of Doctors. Those principles have been clarified. In June 2017, reference was made to Recommendation No. 17/01 of 16 May 2017. An effective recommendation was therefore made. Since this practice has apparently been continued, I have once again asked the Data Protection Authority to consider whether further steps could be taken. Meanwhile, the GBA has informed me that it has made or planned a number of arrangements with various actors in the sector for a concrete roadmap, with inspections and monitoring of compliance with the rules. I have also asked, partly at the request of my colleague, Minister of Health De Block, to draw up a recommendation on this subject, so that once and for all it is clear how to work. A number of technological aspects must also be included. The GBA has planned a number of site visits for this purpose. I will therefore wait and see what the GBA will do. This morning, I had another meeting with the GBA. I have asked that this be given priority and that this matter be resolved as quickly as possible, because if we want to further roll out and stimulate the electronic patient file and to enjoy all its benefits, then trust in that system must be guaranteed at all times. What happens now, with the insurance doctors, is absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-05-55-commissie-ic104x.u37	Thank you for your very clear answer, Minister. It is certainly a dossier that we will follow up on in the coming weeks and months, perhaps with questions to you, but we will see that later.
