ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u1	Mr President, the corona crisis has, in view of all that, set in motion a number of positive things. Everyone enjoyed that there were no traffic jams and that it was much quieter on the road. There was literally a lot more silence. This was also the case for public transport. Even now it is noticed that it is very quiet on the train, even though more and more people, fortunately, are starting to take the train. A lot of people appreciate that and hope it can stay that way. I believe that this would be possible if we were allowed to import silent wagons in Belgium, as in the Netherlands. The concept of the Silence Coupé or the Silence Car has existed in the Netherlands since 2003. People are asked not to have no loud conversations there, so that everyone can work quietly, read or even take a nap. Turns out that's good for mental well-being. That doesn't cost any money at all. And in the Netherlands that apparently works quite well, based on social control. What is the position of you and SNCB on this matter, Minister? Do you think the introduction of silent wagons is a good idea? Why is that, or why not? Are you prepared to conduct a market survey of the rail passengers, as happened in the Netherlands before the introduction of the silence coupons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that for the time being it does not have any plans for setting up silent compartments on its trains. It is true that market research shows that some travellers are disturbed by noise from other travellers. With its courtesy campaigns, including stickers on the train, SNCB raises awareness and invites its travellers to remain courteous and show respect. The interior design of quiet cars is practically not that simple either. There is more to it than the application of stickers or markings. SNCB must ensure that there are sufficient seats on the trains it puts in. If we would ask SNCB to reserve part of its seats for Silence Coupés, the first question is how many seats should be. When a train leaves and there are only free seats left in the silent carriage, can SNCB ask its passengers to be quiet in that carriage? These questions deserve a comprehensive reflection and show that the question of the introduction of silence coupons is more difficult than at first sight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I certainly encourage SNCB to devote a wide-ranging reflection on the introduction of silent wagons. I am absolutely convinced that, as in the Netherlands, even in Belgium, the traveller could appreciate it and that this could only increase the attractiveness of the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55006381C and 55007174C of Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Buyst are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u5	Mr President, Minister, it has already been said that the corona crisis has a very serious impact on the economy. In the case of SNCB, too, we can see that losses are incurred as a result of the loss of revenue from ticket sales. Mrs Dutordoir already dropped the figure of EUR 70 million a month. Meanwhile, the German government already has a plan ready to guide the Deutsche Bahn through the crisis by providing additional funding. They have a financial package of 8 billion available there. The number of train passengers prior to the corona crisis may only be reached again in 2022, according to the same German railway company. Minister, have you, as Minister for Mobility, had a view of the losses suffered by SNCB since the corona crisis? Can we already make a forecast for the whole of 2020 on financial losses at SNCB? The federal government will have to provide additional resources to ensure the proper functioning of SNCB in the future. Do you already have a plan, like the German government, to deal with the losses? Will the staff of SNCB and Infrabel be dismissed because of this crisis? Will SNCB and Infrabel save on labour costs? Will SNCB or Infrabel postpone investment projects because of the uncertain situation? Can the board members of SNCB and Infrabel still receive bonuses in the coming years, taking into account this precarious situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u6	Mr Minister, I agree with Mrs Vindevoghel's questions, but I have to say that my question dates back to 25 May and is, I am sure, already somewhat out of date. For example, I asked a question about the concessionaires, but in the meantime I understand that SNCB has made an effort for them, which may also be appreciated. As far as the financial impact and compensation of SNCB for the losses suffered are concerned, I would like to know your position, Minister. Do you have any news about the negotiations on this subject? Steps have already been taken in this area in our neighbouring countries: Mrs Vindevoghel referred to Germany, but also in the Netherlands, the government has released a budget of almost EUR 1 billion to compensate for the losses of public transport companies. In the Netherlands there is an availability fee to compensate for some of the obligation to drive a minimum service during the corona crisis, which was considered to be of national interest at that time. I also have a question about the compensation of subscribers. Subscribers who have paid to use the train for example for a year or six months have not been allowed to use the train for a certain period of time. To what extent will they be compensated for this? You referred earlier to negotiations on this matter with other transport companies. What is the state of play on this matter? Is there any news on that? The substance of the debate will be held next week together with SNCB and Infrabel, because of course it is a huge impact. Figures of EUR 400 to 450 million circulate. These are, of course, very impressive amounts. I can imagine that this will have a serious impact on the business plans of SNCB and Infrabel, so I look forward to that debate and to a state of affairs by you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u7	Since Mrs Buyst is not present to ask her question, you have the floor for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, SNCB is suffering greatly from the corona crisis. According to SNCB, the recurrent EBIDTA 2020, which was budgeted at +108 million euros, will, on the basis of the most recent forecasts, amount to around EUR 2 290 million, i.e. an operating difference of EUR 398 million. This large deficit is due to the revenue losses of SNCB: EUR 28 per annum for domestic traffic and EUR 17 per cent for all revenues combined, which are barely compensated by the reductions in charges, i.e.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Due to the mainly fixed cost structure of SNCB, the introduction of the train service of national interest between 23 March and 3 May 2020 has reduced the burden very little. In addition, addressing the health situation has resulted in significant cyclical additional costs, which may become structural additional costs, as the health crisis threatens to lead to significant changes in operational obligations. Moreover, the revenue of SNCB also risks a structural impact as a result of a change in customer attitudes, including telework. On 4 May 2020, SNCB re-established a transport plan as good as normal, but the recovery of supply did not lead to a significant increase in revenue. The occupation of trains and the associated sale of tickets is slowly increasing, even though many travellers are currently reluctant to take the train and prefer individual modes of transport or telework solutions. As a result, SNCB assumes that operating losses will continue in the coming months, albeit gradually less, and that a return to normal conditions will certainly not be considered in the short term, perhaps not even before 2023. SNCB has considered a number of alternatives to address the operating deficit and the future impact of the sanitary and economic crisis in the coming months or even years. In the light of these different options and of the exceptional nature of the crisis, it appears that SNCB is obliged to ask for an intervention to deal with the financial and economic consequences of the current crisis, both cyclical and structural, for its operational activities and for its future investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I would like to add that it is clear to us that we hope that we do not need to save on staff and that SNCB should continue to focus on good public rail transport. I have a proposition. Perhaps it would be a good thing for SNCB to be extended for the next ten years. This can provide certainty, which is important for the future. Not many private companies will now be interested in making an offer to the railway company. Our group is in favour of requesting an extension for 10 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u10	Mr Minister, I would also like to thank you for your reply, which contains a lot of figures and data which I would like to read in a quiet manner. Next week we will be able to have the debate on this. The Minister referred to the very slow return of travellers. However, it is my experience that since this week it has become very busy again on the trains. I have the impression that the effect of corona on the use of public transport is gradually getting worse, but that can also be a very personal and temporary impression.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u11	Mr Roggeman and Mrs Buyst are not here, Mrs Jiroflée is trying to make a call. Debates of the European Parliament 55006763C by Mr Vandenbroucke is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u12	Mr Minister, it is a little strange that I have to pursue questions about the impact of the corona crisis, which is affecting SNCB very much. This is very topical, but in my question it is about a stop, created by a person who is even more current, the Royal Stop station, a public station intended for the royal family. That station was built in 1877 at the request of King Leopold II, the man who has become more famous in recent weeks than at the time of his life in the meantime he died 111 years ago. In 2001, the station was abandoned on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of SNCB, which was celebrated by the royal couple, King Albert II and Queen Dolce Paola, who then took the train. Since September 1996, the railway station of the royal domain has been a protected monument. It is empty, but there are a lot of uncertainties about the powers and responsibilities of the management of the building. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Who owned the building until 1996? Who owned the building between 1996 and 2001, so the manager responsible? Who owns the building today? Under the leadership of then Prime Minister of Brussels, Charles Picqué, the station was given the status of a protected monument and according to our sources it still enjoys that status today. Who is currently the owner, who is responsible for maintenance on the outside and who is responsible for the inside of the building? Since it would be a public building, is the station accessible to the general public? If so, is that entry free? If no, what pricing is applicable? Finally, and perhaps this question is even more topical, given the problems of mobility and the means used to move themselves: is there another destination planned for the station in the context of the ceremonial mobility of the royal family in the near or distant future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u13	Mr President, SNCB informs me that it has never owned the infrastructure in question and has therefore never spent any money on its construction or maintenance. The station located below the castle of Laeken, which has never really been a railway station, is located in a basement of the castle of Laeken, which is part of the royal domain. For an answer to your questions, please contact the Minister responsible for the Government of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but it is not really an answer to my question. The Royal Stop is split into two. It is true that SNCB has never owned the underground stop that has never been in use. However, my question concerns the station building, as we can see now, which was once actually in use and was indeed transferred by SNCB, apparently through the Royal Gift and managed by the Government of the Buildings. This is again a very confusing situation, a belgic construction in which the hot potato is always pushed between the royal house, the Royal Gift and the Government of the Buildings. Your answer concerns the underground station of which the late King Albert I has distanced or shut down the works, but it is not the Royal Stop as such between Jette and Laeken, which still exists. To date, this stop is owned by either the Government of the Buildings or the Brussels Capital Region. At least it's a protected monument. I will have to ask a follow-up question about who owns and is responsible for this building, the above ground building, between the station of Bockstael and Laeken. The taxpayer certainly pays for this, but no one dares say who pays for it through what mechanism, especially in those times when King Leopold II was tested. I want to sue, and I'm gonna keep knocking on that nail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament 55006688C and 55006913C by Mr Roggeman and Mrs Buyst are postponed at their request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u16	Minister, I will return to my stick horse for the umpteenth time. In a judgment of 30 May 2018, the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels decided that, among other things, the Leuven Rechtdoor flight route, the 07, which was introduced on 6 March 2014, should be phased out within 90 weeks. The Belgian State objected to that judgment, which concerned a whole package, not an appeal. The period during which Leuven had to be finished straight ahead was 90 weeks. Meanwhile, we're two years and five weeks later. That is why I have a number of questions. When exactly did the 90-week deadline end? What have you done about this issue between May 2018 and now? Have any further steps been taken to establish a flight law, as announced in the 2014 Government Agreement? I know there may not be a decision on this right now. But what steps have been taken? The coalition agreement also announced consultations (...) Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u17	In the end you were very poorly understood, Mrs Jiroflée. I assume that you have asked the questions as they have been passed on in writing, so that the Minister can answer them perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u18	Ms Jiroflée, the judgment of the Dutch court of first instance in Brussels of 30 May 2018 has ordered the Belgian State to cease the seven phases of the changes to the flight procedures carried out by the instructions of 15 March 2012 and 21 June 2012, in application of the airport agreement of 19 December 2008, within 90 weeks of the service of the judgment. This judgment was served on the Belgian State on 14 June 2018 and the deadline of 90 weeks expired on 27 February 2020. In order to achieve a sustainable and structural solution, this dossier should be dealt with in an overall framework. I had designated the study firm Envisa to carry out an independent, technical and scientific impact study on noise pollution from Brussels Airport, in accordance with the rules of the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels of 19 July 2017. The study bureau report published on 3 June 2019 emphasises that a common policy on noise is a precondition for any operational solution. I share that analysis. The municipalities of Noordrand are not the only ones to be overflown by aircraft landing or taking off at Brussels National Airport. The problem of noise pollution must be addressed in a global way by all the different policy levels and cannot be limited to one of the parties' views. The implementation of the decision of 30 May 2018 shall not have the effect of moving the nuisance and of violating other judicial decisions. However, our analyses lead to that conclusion. In addition, four municipalities from the province of Flemish Brabant have initiated an action for the cessation of the use of the Leuven Rechtdoor flight route. On 6 April 2016, that procedure resulted in a judgment in favour of the Belgian State. However, that decision was appealed against. The case is still pending. Moreover, our country has had a long reign in current affairs, limiting the action field of the Minister for Mobility. Although on 19 March 2020 the government gained the confidence of the Chamber for the Sanitation of the Corona Crisis and the adoption of socio-economic measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis. However, it has not been given a mandate to arbitrary a common policy on noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You gave exactly the answers I was expecting. First of all, you mentioned the study bureau, but you have already explained all this to me. Secondly, you mentioned the different levels of policy responsible for the dossier. Someone must, however, take responsibility for coordination. That was your job. That's why you ordered those studies. Thirdly, Minister, you are now replying that you have been in current affairs all along. Of course, no decision can be taken on this issue, which I have also indicated. Unfortunately, you didn't do anything about the file before that time either. I've raised the problem several times, and I will continue to charge it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u20	Mr President, Minister, when old MR-75 trains were dismantled, the workers came into contact with chromium-6. This substance, like asbestos, is not harmful in solid form, but can be harmful as a substance through the lungs, by ingestion or by absorption through the skin, such as cancer. Approximately 60 workers would have been exposed to the substance. SNCB was already aware of the problem since 2008, years before the start of the works, but nevertheless failed to take measures or carry out a risk analysis. The workers do not receive civil compensation, because the employers benefit from immunity through a technical detail. Mr Minister, are there any workers who were exposed to chromium-6 who are already complaining? Why didn't those employees get compensation? If the workers get cancer later, can they claim compensation? Why did SNCB not take protective measures, as SNCB was already aware of the problem in 2008?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u21	Mrs Dewulf, in this case, as you know, a judgment was passed very recently by the correctional court in Ghent. Out of respect for the law and interests of all the parties, SNCB states that it is neither appropriate nor appropriate to answer the questions at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u23	This too will undoubtedly continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 55006962C) by Mrs Buyst and No 55006962C) by Mrs Buyst and others: 55006977C by Mr Delizée were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55007351C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u25	Minister, I quote: "Every change in duty schedules and rest periods shall be notified to interested parties at least twenty-four hours in advance by means of a notice which shall be suspended in the same circumstances. The performance of the moving staff shall start and end at the time specified in the turntable. Deviations from that rule may only be made if the main tracks of the line have been crossed or wait for the last passenger train or boat of the day or for international trains handed over lately by neighbouring railways. In the cases mentioned above, train crews must be properly informed and all appropriate measures taken." Is it true that, in the event of a change in a service, one must be notified 24 hours before the new service takes place, including for the staff who are out of service? If so, why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if SNCB wishes to make changes to its train crew's timetable, it will do so more than 24 hours before the start of the performance, as you indicated. There are certain urgent or unplanned cases where derogations may be made. These are described in the regulations. This may be a case of force majeure or an emergency on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u27	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately it is always better on paper than in reality. It doesn't always happen that way. People are often not notified in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u28	Mr Minister, new SNCB figures show that now, on average, some 254 000 passengers take the train per working day. This represents only 27% of the passenger numbers prior to the corona crisis, but the occupation is a little higher than in the first week of the corona measures, when only 90,000 passengers got on the train on an average working day. At the end of May 181,000 commuters were counted on average. The capacity utilisation of trains during rush hour is now around 13 % compared to 5% at the start of the corona crisis. So we see that the train gradually becomes more busy again, although we are still far from the precorona occupancy rate. However, this can change quickly, because traffic congestion rates on the road are increasing sharply day after day and the decision of the super core to give each Belgian 12 free rides can lure passengers back to the train. In addition, the biggest pain point for SNCB is to avoid overcrowding on the train. A study carried out by the VUB noted that most users consider it important to know the capacity utilisation of public transport. They consider that even more important than wearing mouth masks. In some neighbouring countries, there are busy detectors and seats that passengers are allowed to use. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. What is the maximum capacity utilisation of a train that allows passengers to be safely transported? How will it be made clear to the passengers that a train is too busy and that it might be better to wait for another train? How is it ensured that the maximum capacity utilisation of a train is not exceeded? What measures will be taken if the capacity utilisation rate of a train becomes too high? In the Netherlands people work with a crowded detector in the NS app where the traveller can easily indicate that there is a big crowd on the train on which he or she sits. Is such a thing possible in the SNCB app in the short term? What steps are being taken to that end? Will this be investigated? The bike could also be taken free of charge. To what extent can this reduce the capacity of the trains? How will it be ensured that the carrying of bicycles does not limit the capacity of passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u29	Mrs Verhaert, in the context of the current health crisis, maximum occupancy on the train is reached when all seats are occupied. When this maximum occupancy is reached, the train supervisor will contact the passenger dispatching who will in turn inform the following stations on the route. For example, alternatives can be quickly sought at these stations and this can also be communicated to travellers. SNCB's staff will therefore play an active role in channeling passengers to other trains in these stations. On the train, the train escorts ensure maximum distribution of passengers across the different carriages. Train escorts report daily by train the number of passengers present. They therefore give the first signals about the capacity utilisation of a train. This allows SNCB to take operational measures necessary when capacity utilisation becomes too high. SNCB is currently developing an app to provide an overview of the capacity utilisation of the train. The aim is to be able to present the app to customers in the last quarter of 2020. SNCB accepts the transport of bicycles in so far as there are places where the bicycles can be parked correctly. A bicycle must never interfere with passengers or train staff or cause unsafe situations. The carriage of groups of regular bicycles is also avoided because it can have an impact on the punctuality of the train. However, not all trains have places to park bicycles. In some stations such as Brussels-Central it is quite impossible to take a regular bike on the train. Passengers with a bike must report to the train guide. If a train guide finds that there is no possibility on his train to bring a bicycle or additional bicycles, he will find solutions for the passengers involved with the traveler dispatching.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u30	Minister, I think it is very positive that SNCB is working on such a busy app. In the Netherlands travellers can also report the crowds. Maybe that's something to take with you. At least that's where it works. I hope that app gets there soon. It is clear that the people with peace of mind want to take the train. This would give additional comfort to the train passengers, so that they can see a bit earlier if they can get on the train or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, monitoring compliance with the COVID-19 measures is a task which is primarily entrusted to the police. Nevertheless, the agents of Securail were also instructed to ensure that passengers complied with the measures within the SNCB infrastructure. They may report for those who refuse to comply with the rules by, for example, wearing mouth-nose protection. Cooperation between police forces and Securail is going well. The Federal Railway Police even has a liaison officer at the SNCB Security Operations Center to better control the situation in real time. SNCB's Corporate Security Service carries out daily monitoring of compliance with the measures. Since 13 March there were 3,800 COVID-19 calls, of which 2,086 gave rise to a Securail action, and 1,156 to a police action. The police may have acted outside those calls. 1.989 calls were specifically linked to the non-wearing of a traveler's mouth and nose protection. SNCB has invested heavily in its communication on sanitary measures, e.g. with clear and visible signalling in stations and trains and with messages frequently repeated to passengers via the broadcasting systems or by the people who are talking to customers. The wearing of a mouth mask is generally well respected. Since 4 May, SNCB has deployed its repair staff, stewards, platform staff and security agents from Securail to inform and sensitise customers. Securail agents have so far contacted more than 85,000 travellers to apply oral and nasal protection. Both in Securail and in the police, a more repressive approach was adopted, depending on the successive phases, from sensitisation to a more repressive approach. SNCB does not have the figures of the fines imposed as a result of checks carried out by the police. Until today, Securail has produced 399 minutes for persons who did not keep to the social distance or ignored the oral mask obligation. If we compare that figure to the number of times Securail agents have contacted travellers, this number is marginal. It is too early to give figures on administrative fines, because the procedures are still in progress. In order to prevent increased aggression against train escorts, the sale of tickets on the train was temporarily suspended and Securail was asked to increase the number of patrols. The Securail agents were also reminded that they should always carry out a good risk analysis, both for their safety and for their health, before they act. The police must be called upon as soon as there is an escalation risk. Close monitoring of recurrent facts is also being carried out so that targeted and repeated interventions by the police and Securail can be envisaged. SNCB noted a decrease in the number of cases of aggression between 13 March and the end of April, which can be explained by the reduction in rail traffic and consequently the number of passengers present in the trains and stations. With the resumption of traffic in May, SNCB noted a small increase, but the figures are clearly below those of the number of cases of aggression recorded before the so-called corona period. In April, 31 reports of aggression were recorded and in May 67. These figures are clearly lower than those in January, 218 and February, 154. Between mid-March and 4 May there was much less train traffic and there were therefore also fewer interventions for aggression cases. SOC received 46 calls in January for aggression between third parties, in February 60 and in March 53. Both in April and May there were only 24 calls. For the calls to the police, I refer to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u32	You asked a short question, Mrs Verhaert, but you received a comprehensive answer. Do you have another reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u33	Thank you for the very comprehensive answer, Minister. It is a good thing that the number of reports of aggression is falling. We sometimes see an escalation when it comes to wearing a mouth mask. It is therefore still important to tackle hard people who refuse to wear a mask or show aggression towards the train guide. It is in the interests of everyone's health that these masks are still worn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u34	Minister, we are currently discussing the CRM in this House. That is the future auction mechanism that will ensure that we have energy security, even after the closure of nuclear power plants. One of the points on the table concerns the choice between a payment on capital or consumption. It's not without consequences. That is to say, in the future, the peak consumption of consumers in particular will become very important. Since SNCB is one of the largest consumers of electricity in our country, I am of course very interested to know about peak consumption. We are talking about peak hour trains, so I also assume that at that time consumption is the highest. This will therefore have its consequences if we choose to tax the CRM more on capital. That is why I have put a number of questions to the Minister on the electricity consumption of SNCB. I'm not going to go over them again because he may have received them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u35	Infrabel has the status of manager of the traction rail. Infrabel is the access point for the access points to the Elianet. This also means that the access costs are invoiced by Elia to Infrabel, which will then be passed on to the railway operators. Railway operators can choose their own supplier. To date, no one has exercised this right. All railway operators have given Infrabel a mandate to purchase common electricity. It is correct that the railway sector has a very specific decrease profile, with a low night decrease and a high decrease during the morning and evening peaks. The decrease is also temperature sensitive. The average decrease during the night hours fluctuates around 75 megawatts. During the morning peak this amounts to 300 megawatts. Then this drops to 200 megawatts, to rise again in the evening to 300 megawatts. This morning and evening peak is only noticeable during working days. During the weekend a fairly constant power of 150 megawatts is decreased during the day. When we look at consumption, this is relatively constant on an annual basis. The combined consumption of the rail sector varies around 1.5 terawatts. Sixty percent is reduced during peak hours and forty percent during off-peak hours. Consumption during the winter months is on average 130 gigawattuur. During the summer months this is 110 gigawattuur. According to Infrabel, the development of renewable energy is not a solution to reduce the cost of the surcharges. At present, Infrabel and SNCB have an active policy to equip the buildings with PV installations. However, the developed capacity remains limited, currently around 11 megawatts. The energy developed is primarily used for the consumption of buildings and workshops. Also, the production based on sun and wind has the disadvantage that they do not influence the decrease peak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'll look at the numbers, but they're huge anyway. We use 300 megawatts during peak hours. That is more than half an old nuclear power plant or almost half of what is produced at sea today by the wind. That's not nothing. In this shift from consumption to power, it is still interesting to see the impact on our national railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u37	Minister, as a result of the corona crisis, the three-country consultation on the reopening of the Iron Rhine, which was due to take place at the beginning of 2020, was cancelled. You told me that before. A new appointment was made on Friday 12 June via a conference call. Has that delayed consultation been possible? What results has it produced? If the consultation has not taken place, why has it been cancelled and, if necessary, has a new date been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u38	Mr Raskin, I can indeed confirm that the third international working group on the 3RX project took place on 12 June via videoconference. During the consultations, agreement was reached at official level on the terms of reference (TOR) concerning the mandate of the international working group. At the request of the Netherlands, the three countries also agreed on an update of the cost-benefit analysis (MKBA). The update includes both an update of the transport projections in the three countries and the inclusion of the elements not included in the previous 3RX feasibility study, such as passenger transport potential, military mobility, node saturation and impact of the European Green Deal. The various parties have indicated their agreement to Belgium's proposal to draw up this additional study. In this sense, the FPS Mobility and Transport will place the specifications in the market, in collaboration with the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works. In concrete terms, a sub-group will be set up to update the technical specifications of the specifications text and to provide more insight into the cost of the actualisation exercise. The three countries have now agreed that each country will account for one third of the total cost of the actualisation exercise. Finally, I can tell you that a fourth meeting of the international working group will normally take place at the beginning of 2021 in Berlin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u39	Mr. Secretary, work in progress. I'm glad the wire's been picked up again. You have clearly indicated what will happen in concrete terms in the coming months. Together with you I look forward to the further progress and to January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u40	Mr President, Minister, last week we held a hearing on the new transport plan, which will enter into force at the end of this year. In that plan there are also some changes for the Limburg train passengers. Minister, there will be a direct IC connection between Hasselt and Antwerp, without a detour via Brussels Airport, thus reducing the travel time from Hasselt to Antwerp. This is a good thing. Can you guarantee that this important connection from Antwerp will also connect well with the follow-up routes to the north and south of my province? In mid 2021, the Brussels-Mol peak hour train will be extended to Neerpelt and, in the long term, SNCB is considering a further extension to Hamant, but this will require an adjustment of the station first, because the current platforms are too short and there are too few tracks. Can you explain these plans in greater detail, if possible, and what is already known about timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u41	Like Mr Raskin, I would like to refer to the proposed plans of SNCB and, above all, to a topical debate which has taken place in this committee. Then you said, Minister, that the number of stops on the line from Mol to Neerpelt is one of the things that must be improved in order to extend that line. There are quite a few extra stops in the Kempen today. I'm gonna have to talk to the mayors about that. It is now said that the extension will take place. So I wonder what that means for these stops, including the Overpelt stop, which I imagine is being watched? About the station of Hamont I read that the platform would be too short. Okay, I can see that from other platforms, too. I wonder what the state of affairs is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u42	Mr President, SNCB wishes first of all to point out that it has been able to minimise the impact of the corona crisis on its new transport plan. Of the 49 projects planned for this year, 44 have been confirmed, and it remains its ambition to increase train supply by 4.7 % by 2023. In any case, it was intended to phase out this plan because it has to take into account the available infrastructure, train equipment and staff. A number of projects will have a new timing, but the final goal, by 2023, will remain unchanged. A significant number of projects are also planned for Limburg. Initially, the intention was to extend the two P trains between Brussels and Mol to Neerpelt from December this year. Because Infrabel's electrification works have been delayed on that line, that project will be moved to the middle of next year. Why the trains are not extended until Hamont has to do with the fact that the station of Hamont has not yet been adapted for that purpose. The platforms are too short for these long trains, and there are too few tracks. With the necessary adjustments, SNCB intends to have these trains stopped in Hamant in the long term. The IC train between Hasselt and Antwerp is one of the projects which SNCB wants to carry out by 2023. This was initially planned for December 2021. This will not be before this year because SNCB will implement its transport plan in stages, taking into account, inter alia, the available train equipment. A new IC connection like this requires additional trains. The delivery of new M7 double deck trains is under way. The train will drive every hour during the working week and will stop in Hasselt, Heist-op-den-Berg, Lier, Antwerp-Berchem and Antwerp-Central. This is the same route as for the current P-train that will be replaced by this IC-train. Finally, SNCB wants to drive the IC train from Hasselt to Brussels Airport and Antwerp every Sunday instead of every two hours now. This project was also planned for December 2021, but may receive a new timing at the beginning of next year after analysing the financial situation of SNCB and a possible new decision by the Council of Ministers. There are no stations that will no longer be served by the new transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u43	Mr Minister, the direct IC link Hasselt-Antwerp is a good thing. It's really a problem that's not there right now. To my question about a connection to the north and south of the province I didn't really get an answer. I will follow this up because it is absolutely necessary to use the strategic connection between Hasselt and asselt and Antwerp to the full. As far as Hamant is concerned, I would like to take this opportunity to say that this extension to Hamant is really necessary. Today, the Netherlands is working on an international railway line from Randstad via Brabant and Limburg to Aachen. That line passes in Weert, just across the border with Belgian Limburg. The station of Weert is relatively easy to connect to the station of Hamont. This is a cross-border rail link that we have to realize from Belgian Limburg to trace from Hamont and Weert to the Netherlands and Germany. We certainly need to do that after Infrabel made the historic mistake of giving up the cross-border line 20 from Hasselt to Maastricht. Limburg is at the heart of the Euregio and we absolutely must be able to cross the border from our province to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'd like to give you three more cases. Firstly, it is a good thing that the direct link from North Limburg to Brussels is coming. At the last committee meeting, we expressed our hope that the train equipment will not be at the end of the journey, but that we will have decent equipment. Secondly, I can only support Mr Raskin's call on Hamant. Thirdly, Minister, I hear from your reply that no station will be abolished, which is contrary to what you said in committee. I'm curious. After all, we are on the train for a long time and every stop of course provides extra time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u45	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the implementation of the Spartacus Spartacus project of De Lijn, Infrabel is studying the abolition of four considerations in Bilzen. The reflections would be replaced by a tunnel. The start of the works is scheduled for autumn 2021. Which four are we considering exactly? You have already informed me that Infrabel will provide the necessary budgets for the rail section of the sub-tunnel. What are the budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u46	Mr President, Mr Infrabel tells me that she is indeed studying the abolition of the Bilzen initiative in the context of the De Lijn Spartacus project. It specifically concerns the following considerations: crossing 47 in the Molenstraat, crossing 46 in the Nijverheidsstraat, crossing 45A in the Laarstraat, crossing 45 in the Boomstraat, crossing 44C in Haoi, crossing 44B in the Laakstraat and crossing 44A in the Hasseltsestraat. The first four considerations lie on the route of the Spartacus project's rapid tram line 1. A tunnel for all traffic under the railway line 34 is planned for the 44A. The joint consideration will be paid through the remaining balance of the SPV Swankendamme. The cost is estimated at around €8 million. For the non-linked consideration, Infrabel will provide the necessary budgets for the part to be borne by Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u47	That was very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u48	Mr Minister, I am asking this question about the safety regulations in connection with the bus at Burst station. It seems local, but I hear acid comments everywhere. On Friday evening 19 June, a faulty train at Burst station caused the trains of line 82 Aalst-Burst to be completely cancelled. The large, busy shuttle line Brussels-Denderleeuw-Zottegem experienced delays of up to thirty minutes. The biggest obstacle to this break was that the barriers in the vicinity of Burst station remained closed. It is likely to be bound by a standard safety procedure. The classic traffic, but also the buses, buses, cyclists and pedestrians had to turn around or wait. Such situations lead to a great deal of discontent and misunderstanding. They question the power and authority of the barrier, and by extension the bell signal and the like. For the sake of clarity, the trains continued to run, albeit with delay and reduced from two tracks to one. How long have the barriers in the vicinity of Burst station been closed? Why couldn't these barriers continue in a normal way, closing the barriers when a train passes by? That was not the case here, although this is the essential effect of a barrier and signalization. It is possible that such measures will be reviewed, with one defective train creating long-term closed barriers and thus hindering the entire traffic, independently of the trains and commuters by train themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u49	Mr De Spiegeleer, Infrabel informs me that recitals 25 and 26 of railway line 89 were closed from 16.55 hours to 18 hours and that the 27 was closed from 16.55 hours to 19.10 hours. When a train runs on a particular stretch of track, the crossing through which it will pass shortly afterwards is closed. The road will then remain closed until that particular stretch of track is free again. In this case several trains were on the track, so the track was not released. Consider are designed to ensure that the safety of all road users always prevails and therefore to keep the barriers closed, even in the case of a defective train. This will continue until the safety of road users can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u50	Mr Minister, let there be no doubt that security prevails, for everyone here and for all the groups in Parliament. However, as I have already said, I fear that such procedures and incidents not only create frustrations, but that the authority of the barrier will also disappear a little. The aim of a barrier and the associated signage is to urge people to be cautious because a train passes by, but safety procedures like this are not. In this case, people think that a train could pass by, and I have seen it with my own eyes, and I find the wrong response, which I find reprehensible for the sake of clarity, that people are risking their way along the barriers. In fact, the essential objective of a barrier is not met, both on the one hand, and on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other. That is why I propose to consider whether it is technically possible for one defective train not to keep a barrier closed for an hour and a half. I regret that it is not technically possible to reduce the follow-up to general transport by one defective train, because such a closed barrier has the opposite effect. I fear that we will have examples of this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u51	Minister, SNCB presented its transportation plan last week in committee. During this presentation, SNCB announced the postponement of four projects, three in Flanders and one in Wallonia, relating to line 42. The frequency of trains on this line was scheduled to change in December 2020 to one train per hour and in each direction, which would have been particularly comfortable for commuters from the Ourthe-Amblez and the province of Luxembourg. The transportation plan was approved by the board of directors in December 2019, but also by the government in April 2020. SNCB apparently decided to postpone these projects on its own. That's unfortunate. While we have heard in previous questions the state of the losses incurred by SNCB as a result of the crisis, it is nevertheless true that to sacrifice four essential projects, including rural lines, on the altar of budgetary data seems to me a little light. Have you been formally seized of this request, as the government has approved a transportation plan? I know you personally are paying attention to the issue of rural lines, but I also know that if SNCB is to seek additional means for the full implementation of the transportation plan, it will have to go through you and you through the federal government. In any case, that is what I heard in a previous reply you gave, namely that a new decision by the Council of Ministers should be taken. If that's the case, I'd like you to confirm it to me. I understand your willingness to implement this plan, but it is probably not the only decision on this issue. You announced in the press that this would be done in the fall. If the government is valid at that time for a new transportation plan with new means, will the SNCB not fall behind the remaining time – two or three months at that time – to fully implement this transportation plan? I would like very clear answers because our commuters are stifled between the political will, which seems to exist, and the budgetary constraints that the SNCB has to face. To do this, it seems that the federal government will have to take a decision again. Can you reassure our commuters that you will receive these supplementary budgets for SNCB and for commuters in rural areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, as you were able to see at the hearing in Parliament, despite the current health crisis, SNCB has managed to minimize the impact on its new transport plan. The detailed and adapted plan of the SNCB has been submitted to the House and is available from each of you. Indeed, the crisis has impacted the delivery of its M7 equipment. Some work has been delayed. And like all other companies, SNCB had to manage absenteeism and suffered a huge financial impact. I have already answered a question about this earlier. SNCB clearly confirms its final intention to increase its train offer by 4.7% by 2023. It also calls for flexibility to achieve its objectives in order to enable it to integrate all the realities of the coming months. It will take into account, among other things, the gradual and indispensable arrival of M7 double-stage trains, which has fallen behind due to the health crisis. SNCB already confirms the implementation of 44 of the 49 projects planned for the end of 2020. Of the five projects to be confirmed, one of them will be postponed in the middle of next year, given the understandable delay in electrification work in recent months carried out by Infrabel in Hamont and Mol. The timing of the other four projects, including the one on line 42, will be reviewed in September 2020 according to SNCB after analysis. It was also at that time that SNCB would make its road show in the various provinces. Both will have every opportunity to express their views at that time. If there were any changes proposed by SNCB, however, it is up to the government to decide as it had already agreed to the draft transport plan 2020-2023. Any change should be subject to a change in the deliberations of the Council of Ministers, which is not on the agenda. For the projects planned for 2021 and 2022, SNCB will propose the updated schedule in line with developments in the first quarter of 2021. Mrs Matz, I would like to tell you what the government has decided so far, unless there is a compelling and technical reason, which would be understandable. For the rest, I have not heard that the government intends to reconsider its position in the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u53	Mr President, Minister, thank you for these answers. I understand that the federal government does not want to review its copy - and fortunately! - in relation to what he decided a few weeks ago. However, SNCB has put some pressure on this government by saying: "We do not have the means to implement all the projects". This will necessarily involve complementary means, if the government - which I am pretty sure - wishes to confirm a full and complete deployment as planned by it in April. You do not reply as to whether the government will provide additional means to ensure that the transport plan is fully and fully effective in December 2020, in any case for projects which SNCB intends to postpone, not for technical reasons, work, but only for budgetary reasons. Therefore, I hope that when the government has to confirm its postponements and, eventually, go to the cash register, it will not be too late and that the SNCB will not say: "We have relied on a postponement and we are behind schedule to implement one train per hour and in each direction on line 42".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u54	Mrs Matz, I invite you to reread the answer to a question asked earlier. It is necessary to separate the corona compensations, for which a file of the order of 390 million euros is being analysed, from everything that would have been implemented except corona. Funding for the transportation plan was well planned. Moreover, the impact of the Corona crisis will be the subject of another decision to compensate for the losses. Excluding the loss of corona, the transportation plan was funded and funded by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u55	Of course, I assume that these are quite different envelopes and that the initial transport had received the necessary funding. This was the subject of the Council of Ministers' decision last April. However, SNCB says: "We do not have enough means to do so". Clearly, additional budgets will be needed, except for the Corona envelope. It will be important to clarify this point quickly with SNCB, because here we are in a ping-pong game, which is not healthy for our commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u56	SNCB informs me that the basic permit for the workshop in Melle was delivered on 11 April 2013. An updated licence was issued on 3 August 2018. SNCB voluntarily decides to submit an exemption file to the EIA service. The exemption dossier examined the impact of the project on noise, water, mobility, soil, fauna, flora, landscape and people. All the measures proposed to minimise the nuisance for residents were subsequently imposed in the specifications for construction in the environment permit and thus in the operation of the workshop. The environmental authorisation shall cover the various devices, including a setting-up, workshop, washing-place and fuel distribution system. The number of running diesel locomotives is not specified. The number is kept to a minimum according to SNCB, both in number and duration according to the necessary maintenance work. In accordance with the special conditions set out in the licences, the "Sound' post-monitoring programme is now being implemented. The final report has not yet been finalised. An additional study is being carried out at the request of the Department of Environment. In the case of the construction and operation of the establishment, SNCB considered that measures were already being taken to mitigate the situation. The workshop staff are sensitized to minimise noise, light and vibration pollution as much as possible. Modern train maintenance is aimed at increasing the availability of equipment for regular train services during the day. This inevitably means that trains must also be maintained at night. The activities subject to authorisation shall be carried out within the premises to the maximum extent possible, so as to minimise any inconvenience. Finally, SNCB informs us that consultations have already taken place with local residents and that it is always prepared to hold constructive consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u57	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u58	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me that since 2017 there has been an active survey of a possible future interest of companies and carriers to transport goods by rail L20, in consultation with the parties concerned, such as the municipality of Lanaken, the FOD Mobility and Transport, ProRail, the Belgian and Dutch provinces of Limburg, the municipality of Maastricht and the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Waterstaat. Despite intentions of carriers engaged in rail freight transport, no concrete demand for recovery was ever received. Following the decision of the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State to remove the railway line 20 on Dutch territory, which serves as the sole opening of the Belgian route of line 20, from the Dutch main railway network and to transfer it to the municipality of Maastricht for the purpose of transforming it into a suburban tram line, keeping this section of the railway line of one and a half kilometres in service on Belgian territory is no longer useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am a little surprised, in the sense that companies and carriers would have been contacted since 2017 and that it was apparently not considered useful to activate that railway line. I find that very strange, because there is a very great need for this in Limburg. Unlike my colleagues Verduyckt and Raskin, I am not at all satisfied with the answers we receive here when we ask questions about the Limburg railway situation on a regular basis. Limburg is almost completely isolated. It has no opening to the east, not to the Netherlands and not to the economically important German hinterland. We don't have any connection. It was just about the 3RX project, the Hamont-Weert route. Everything just seems to be stuck there. Today is 1 July and a new meeting is scheduled for early 2021. We have waited for years for an important and expensive 3RX study. Now we need an update, and we need a new study. We have to make a cutlery for that first. Someone who works like that in a private company just flies out, gets his C4. As far as Lanaken-Maastricht is concerned, that is the only trace left that could have been used effectively to unlock the region. Of pure misery, the politicians in Limburg, almost dumb, have laid down a rapid tram, which does not reach a station in Hasselt or Maastricht and with which they have closed the only bed that is still useful. To the extent of disaster, Infrabel will take the piece of that line 20 out of operation. Dutch Limburg then makes the impression that in that case they can also break down the Maasbrug, because there is no longer a train through, which will make Limburg completely isolated. I hope that there will be more enthusiasm, that the team will be beaten up and that work will finally be driven by the opening up of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u60	Minister, I was shocked by an article in Het Laatste Nieuws about the city of Knokke-Heist, which demands a watertight protocol from SNCB on the approach to the summer period. The reason for this was the weekend of 27 and 28 June with, according to the mayor of Knokke-Heist, an uncontrolled influx of visitors, many of whom came by train. The mayor spoke of dozens of packed trains containing many travellers without a mouth mask and a lack of control by SNCB. He is threatening to fail SNCB to export the corona virus to his city. Are the facts cited by Mayor Lippens of Knokke-Heist, namely bombed trains, passengers without a mouth mask and lack of control? What measures did SNCB provide for the safe transport of large numbers of rail passengers to popular destinations, such as the coast? Do there exist agreements with certain cities and municipalities and other stakeholders, such as the police, or will there still be consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that every day 250 trains run to and from the coast, including the additional tourist trains, which also continue to run during the months of July and August, as in the previous weekend. During the last weekend, 90% of these trains had capacity utilisation between 10% and 60%. Only two trains were fully occupied upon returning from the coast. SNCB is in permanent contact with the local coastal authorities. No problem was identified at this stage. The governor of West Flanders was also regularly consulted, I am told. People who were in Knokke this weekend saw a lot of cars parked everywhere. Trams from La Panne to Knokke were also crowded. Therefore, SNCB should not be sued, given the low filling rates. In the context of an agreement with the government and the federal police, SNCB communicates in real time the capacity utilisation of the trains to the coast at the provincial coordination centre. SNCB also recalls that since 4 May wearing a mouth mask or an alternative covering the nose and mouth is mandatory in the stations, on the platforms and on the trains. It calls on everyone's collective responsibility to continue to respect that measure in the interests of everyone. SNCB continues to draw its passengers' attention, through all its communication channels, to the health rules that are in force. SNCB will also link its website to Westtoer's busy barometer to avoid a mass at sea during the summer months. Of course, rail is only a mode of transport, probably quite a minority of the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u62	Thank you for your enlightening answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u63	Madam President, Minister, summer temperatures are very welcome for everyone, except for the Kempian commuters. Since the Desiros have been removed on the Kempian routes, there are almost no trains with air conditioning on our routes, apart from the M6, which only runs once in the morning and once in the evening. That is very uncomfortable, especially now that travellers are obliged to wear a mouth mask. We had made a very clear warning about this. In the renovation of the pig noses, which has completely failed, we indicated at the start of the ride that the ventilation would not be sufficient to ensure pleasant temperatures in the couple. You then dismissed that as an unjustified fear. Now, in practice, it is clear that we were right here. We had also warned you about the punctuality that would be completely destroyed on the Turnhout............................................................................................................................................ Then you wouldn't listen. The figures are now clearly right. I am here today because I would like to find temporary solutions to this problem with you. Have you ever done temperature measurements on these trains? They are truly unliveable, not only for your staff, but certainly also for the Kempian travellers. What can you do in the meantime to come up with solutions for this? You assured us that the temperature would be fine on these trains. That doesn't seem to be the case. I assume that you take responsibility for this and want to provide solutions. Why wasn't air conditioning chosen on the new trains? We couldn't find it before the pig noses were renovated. You have sent us with a lump of reeds by saying that with the improvement of the air the temperature could also be better monitored. This does not appear to be the case at all in practice. Have you taken such a train yourself as a minister at summer temperatures? It's really unlivable then. The travellers take off their mouth mask because they can hardly breathe anymore. When will the final solution come in the long term and will those failed renovated pig noses finally be removed from our nets and we will also get modern rail equipment in the Kempen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u64	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, SNCB is well aware of the demand from the Kempen for the most modern train equipment. SNCB does point out that it is already using six trains on the Turnhout-Binche connection with M6 double deck equipment with air conditioning. The busiest trains between Turnhout and Brussels run with air conditioning. In the medium term, the horizon 2021-2022 is also intended to allow the busy train 3428 with departure in Turnhout to run with M6 equipment at 06.04 hours. As SNCB pointed out earlier, it did indeed consider whether the installation of an air conditioner was possible in the renovation of the four-piece sets. That proved technically not possible. The existing ventilation system was therefore completely overhauled. SNCB considers the system to be satisfactory at average temperatures. However, if it becomes more than 30 degrees and the temperature persists, it can indeed become unpleasantly warm, just like in any room without air conditioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We look forward to seeing more of these modern double deckers on our Turnhout-Brussels-Binche line from 2021-2022. Hopefully there will also be a solution to the problems of delays. We had clearly warned that the ventilation system would not be enough. You speak of temperatures above 30 degrees. However, you should take that train in the Kempen yourself. You're very welcome to join us. From temperatures above 25 degrees it's just completely unliveable in that train. You should take temperature measurements. It is really irresponsible to have your staff but also the Kempian traveller tracked with those trains. With the saturated E313 and E34 connections, we really depend on rail transport. We asked for temporary solutions. Can't you do anything with a mobile installation? It would be nice, should you examine that question, so that we do not have to wait for 2021-2022 to get another slight improvement on our journey. Perhaps you could also consider whether, in the short term, with mobile installations, for example, something can be done about the unviable temperatures on these trains. Finally, we hope that after the warning for punctuality in your plans and the warning for the lack of comfort in those renovated pig noses you will also take the following warnings from us, Kempenaars, really seriously and will no longer do your will. When we warn that something will be a total failure, we hope that you will act accordingly, so that you can avoid being confronted with frustrated and angry Members here who speak on behalf of the Kempian commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to Question No 55007583C by Mr Daniel Senesael, but he is not present. Questions Nos 55007584C and 55007588C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus were transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u67	Madam President, Minister, at the last sitting I asked you a question about the station in Tienen. You did not answer the most important part of that question at the time. I also immediately announced that I would come back to that. My question is more specifically about the renovation of the Tienen station, which has been promised for a long time and is only figuratively in the scaffolding, because unfortunately we still do not see any of it in reality. What's the status? When is this renovation scheduled? According to the first planning, the renovation would be completed by 2020. They're now talking about 2023, but we don't see any real planning. When will the renovation take place and what is the budget earmarked for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u68	Mrs Jiroflée, SNCB has already indicated that the accessibility of its stations and the comfort of its passengers is a priority. At the station of Tienen she first tackled the platforms. The station itself will be dealt with as planned by SNCB from 2023. It is up to the next government to approve the investment plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u69	Madam President, I note that the Minister does not answer me a second time. I'm glad you confirm that it will be 2023. That's something. However, if I understand correctly, nothing has been included in a multiannual plan and nothing has yet been decided on. At least we'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u70	Madam President, Minister, according to some travellers, since the crisis of the coronavirus, it is no longer possible to buy a ticket in cash at certain stations. I was able to observe that at the Brussels-Central railway station, a money dealer can turn the notes into coins, but this is clearly not the case everywhere – as at the Gembloux railway station, for example. This is particularly problematic for people who do not have a bank card. Minister, can you confirm this information? Is the ban on paying in cash legal? Could you make sure that a return to normal can take place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the National Security Council encourages electronic payments because they enable us, in particular, to respect social distancing measures as well as non-perception in the hands of coins that go from pocket to pocket. SNCB follows this recommendation for the sake of precaution and protection of its clients and workers. It recalls that it is always possible to purchase a transport ticket via its website, the application or the station sales machine. A list of stations where windows remain open is also available on its website. However, during the period of health crisis, only credit card payments are accepted. In addition, it has organized itself to ensure that its sales terminals are regularly cleaned and/or disinfected. Finally, many sales machines accept cash payments today. This feature remained valid during the crisis. The return of cash acceptance to the counters is expected in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u72	Minister, everything is a question of proportionality. The National Security Council does recommend limiting cash payments and giving priority to credit card payments. However, when people have no choice but to pay in cash, it is really important to allow them to move. I am therefore pleased to learn that the situation will be restored quickly. But I would not like the choice to favour the use of electronic means of payment to be part of the reduction in access to the windows once again. In fact, I was at the Brussels-Central railway station at an hour's rush, and I was able to observe that some people who probably did not take the train very often were completely debunked. It is up to the stewards who are overwhelmed to accompany them from one counter to another to manage the automatons in their place. I am therefore not convinced that this is a time-saving or productive way of limiting the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u73	Minister, SNCB presented the content of its Transport Plan 2020-2023 in committee last week. The general guidelines for greater amplitude and frequency are in the right direction and affect stations throughout the country in a balanced manner. Only flat, on the six losing stations in this transport plan, five are Liège-Carré, Liège-Saint-Lambert, Milmort, Herstal and Liers. This is bad news for the mobility of Liège, already stuck in the traffic jams and which also suffers the consequences of the tram's work, for years to come. It is clear between the lines of this transport plan that the realization of a genuine express network in Liège is not part of SNCB's long-term strategy. Urban networks in general - Brussels is concerned in the same way - are not an option preferred by SNCB, whereas they are networks that already exist and only need to be valued in order to promote sustainable mobility in city centres. Minister, what messages were sent by the Belgian and Herstallian communal authorities in the context of the consultation on this transport plan? What is SNCB's vision for urban networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u74	Dear colleague, as you point out in your question, the SNCB presented its transport plan to the Mobility Committee at its hearing on 24 June. We can still be pleased with the increase in the number of travellers in 2019, as well as the positive momentum of punctuality which also makes a strong increase compared to 2018 with more 3.2%. I must tell you that I do not share your view on what happened at SNCB. I recall that in 2016, 72 trains were added in and around the Brussels crown. In 2017, the 2017-2020 transport plan was made on the basis of meetings with the stakeholders. The percentage increase established by the Planning Office, all other things being equal, on the basis of previous data, provided for a 1% increase in travellers per year. In addition, with the new dynamics and the new way of approaching the development of the transport plan, before the climate steps, we were already at annual increases of 3%. I would also remind you that the S offer has been put in place on Antwerp, Liège, Charleroi and Ghent. Just for the Liège region, I think we've added something like 15 or 16 trains that make the purely sub-local offer in the Liège community rather than offering long-distance trains. However, SNCB has adapted its offer to reality and many other projects. As regards the transport plan itself, the selection of projects was based on: 1. the government's strategic vision taking into account criteria such as robustness, input from stakeholders and ensuring that selected projects do not have a negative impact on punctuality in particular; 2. central consideration of the needs of clients; 3. the financial resources available; 4. the operational possibilities available. The presentation of the plan that I am not going to repeat was, I think, sufficiently clear and broadly detailed. It should be noted that given the temporary uncertainties caused by the health crisis that we have been going through since March, SNCB wants to maintain all the projects planned over the period as validated, but indicates that it needs a minimum of flexibility in the implementation timing of certain projects. As a reminder and as it announced at its hearing, 44 of the 49 projects and sub-projects are already confirmed by December 2020. There are ten additional draft judgments on existing relationships, seven extension projects, 27 expansion projects, SNCB studies and road shows - this is highly demanded by customers. There are four projects requiring additional means of production. The timing will be given in September by SNCB, after its analysis of the situation. However, the SNCB may review and make proposals, but any changes to the transportation plan as already approved by the government should be subject to a review of the government decision, which is not on the agenda. A project will in any case be postponed, that of infrastructure between Mol and Hamont, delayed by six months for obvious reasons since the path is not available. The concrete timing for the implementation of the projects from December 2021 to December 2022, over the same period, integrating all the impacts of the crisis, will be updated and presented in the first quarter of 2021. In October 2020, the SNCB will host a second round of road shows in each province of the country. On this occasion, SNCB will explain the future transportation plan and the reflections for each province. Why is September an important month? This is the last month in which changes can be made to the implementation of the transport plan in December 2020. If decisions are taken later, it is no longer possible to take them into account in the 2020 transport plan. If SNCB intends to review a number of projects, it could only do so by making a proposal to the government that will be in place at that time. I can tell you that I don't know what arguments we could make. If these are financial arguments, this is almost nothing beside the impact of the VOCID-19. I answered a question earlier. We are about 400 million euros in the impact of VOCID-19. Reporting a project is a few hundred thousand euros maybe, but in any case, SNCB says it wants to postpone for a few months. Reporter for a few months, I don't know if that's the solution. I do not intend, in any case at present, for projects other than those which are not technically possible, to make proposals for postponement if there are no technical reasons preventing implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic227x.u75	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I was not asking you to change the transport plan in Liège, because I am well aware that we are reaching almost definitive decisions. They may be accompanied by changes to the margin as a result of the road show. Anyway, I didn't really have any hope on that side. On the other hand, I wonder a little about how the stakeholders, as you say, have expressed their local request to SNCB. At first glance, one could estimate that the service in the city centre of Liège is perfect, because between three and six trains per hour run there. But the pace is not good. This means that you can have two trains in five minutes, but you can also wait in the station for thirty minutes because of a delay. This poses a real problem of efficiency. Indeed, the station of the Guillemins is out of reach and serves it towards the city center via this line. Double the Gouvy-Liers line and limit it at the Guillemins station will cause difficulties for students who stay in the Carré or near the Place Saint-Lambert. It will also be a problem for commuters and tourists who need to reach the city centre. In addition, the work of the tram causes congestion, while the bus service is saturated. In short, the period 2020-2023, prior to the entry into service of the tram, will be critical for the mobility of Liège. Therefore, one train per hour less will result in a negative impact. I'm not throwing the stone at you, minister. I would just like to know to what extent the Liegeians have argued their interests in this matter, as much as I remain shattered by the result. Of course, the period 2017-2020 represented a step forward for Liège. I am thinking of the doubling of the pace in Ans, which is very good news for the commuters concerned. But the problem remains in the city centre. In any case, I thank you for your reply, which reassures me of your willingness to move forward quickly in the implementation of the transport plan. If postponements were to take place for technical reasons, that would be understandable. For the rest, we will discuss it in due course.
