ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u1	Madam President, Minister, this period of confinement increases the presence of a large number of connected people and unfortunately is accompanied by an increase in cybercrime in general: cyberharassment, but also cybercrime, accompanied by words inciting hatred, insults and racist speech contrary to the law. Last week, the Collective Against Islamophobia (CCI) again denounced on its Twitter account very serious incidents of racist drifts on social networks. Since the beginning of confinement, audiences often targeted by their ethnic origin have been subjected to stigmatization, discrimination and even violence via digital channels. I would like to know what additional means the justice system has at this particular time in order to prosecute the perpetrators of this racial cybercrime effectively and quickly. It is well known that effective means are needed, including the removal of such content, which is particularly inappropriate and illegal. I would like to know what policy you are implementing in relation to cybercrime in general, but more specifically in relation to cyberhaine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u2	Madam President, Minister, we have already noticed on a number of occasions that the government is taking action in favour of economic actors. We heard it again this afternoon at the press conference. Measures need to be taken because, according to a latest report from the Risk Management Group, the default rate in companies is likely to increase by 3 or 4, which would prognosis between 30,000 and 40,000 bankruptcies this year, which is obviously exceptionally important and worrying. Royal decrees have been issued in order to put in place judicial measures to assist businesses. In this regard, the judicial reorganization procedure can be an important lever. Its duration, its supervision and its advisory role are undeniable assets to help and support companies in difficulty. Therefore, in the follow-up to a suggestion made by the president of the company's court, the suspension of the period of notice in bankruptcy will help. At this level, it is important to organize and plan the work of judges dealing with mediation, commercial investigations and other conciliation processes as best as possible within the chambers of firms in difficulty. Hence my questions in this area, Minister. These are questions that are independent of the more specific questions I asked you in writing and which I know you will answer in the very complete way you have used to us. But for this topical debate, I had only two main questions for you. Here's the first one. What awareness-raising and information activities have already been carried out to inform economic actors of the lever that exists for judicial reorganization procedures? What judicial means are being used to support businesses in clean-up plans? Here's the second one. What are the means available, both financial and personnel, to take on the judicial supervision work within the company's court, so as to avoid bankruptcy as much as possible? You know that, again, the president of the company's court recently pleaded, in a daily, for an increase in his executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u3	Madam President, Minister, I have asked you a number of questions on this subject since the beginning of the crisis: women are paying a heavy toll on the VOCID-19 crisis, particularly because of confinement. We believe that the issue of gender-based and intra-family violence should be at the heart of the government's post-crisis action as well as in the context of deconfination. An interdepartmental conference will be held on 8 May, this Friday, on the issue of the VOCID-19 road map and the deconfining plan. I would like to know what position the federal government will take at this conference. Is the federal government ready to take on a leadership role with the means necessary to the key? Finally, your colleague, Minister De Crem, announced in committee on 21 April that he would contact you in order to take a joint initiative on this matter. I would like information on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u4	I would also like to refer to a "white card" which has just appeared in L'Echo and which has been drafted by a group of criminal lawyers. They are concerned about their current working conditions. This includes the lack of computer tools that would be necessary for them to work properly in times of health crisis but also in normal times. I have just read it and it is more than time to look at their working conditions. They are not only affected in their practice, but it also affects the law of the litigants. I am thinking in particular of access to files. I expect you to take advantage of this call for help to take strong action in their favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u5	Minister, the press tells us that 57,396 minutes have been drawn up concerning individuals and 280 minutes for companies that do not respect the rules of social distancing at work. In addition to the risk of spread of the virus, non-compliance has the effect of distorting competition between companies that have complied with the rules, sometimes even having closed their doors, and those that, despite the violation of the rules, continue to operate. An employer who fails to comply with the provisions can be prosecuted on the basis of the Social Penal Code, with a fine of between 100 and 1,000 euros, or 50 to 500 euros. Mr Minister, how many criminal penalties, on the basis of the Social Penal Code, have been imposed against companies that have failed to comply with the rules of social distancing? What about the sanctions that will be linked to non-compliance with hygiene rules following the reopening of shops? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u6	Mr Minister, in response to my question on the deconfinition of prisons on 22 April, you were replying to me that some thought had been given to this, but that it was premature, however, to state the details. An article published last Thursday about the contamination of an inmate at Andenne prison tells us, by the voice of a union delegate, that the general director of the prison mentioned a possible resumption of activities from Monday, May 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u7	Madam President, I had one more question to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u8	You may still ask them, but the agreement is that the questions of one questioner are put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I would be grateful if you would excuse me. As the rules change from committee to committee, it is not obvious. My question concerns the initiative that Minister De Crem wanted to take with the Minister of Justice regarding violence against women. Minister, in a response dated May 5, 2020, Minister De Crem told me that he had written to you an official letter asking for a joint circular and was waiting for your response in that regard. I would like to stress this point even if it is extremely late in relation to the confinement period. However, it is important to be able to possibly extend a whole series of measures because it is known that total and absolute deconfination is not for tomorrow. So why not call victims who have filed complaints for the past three months on a regular basis? My second request is to tell pharmacists how to be a reference person so that they can give the alert. Finally, my last request was for a text message number, as is currently the case for deaf and hard of hearing people. It is, of course, much easier to contact this service by text rather than by phone, especially if you are at the side of your executioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u10	Madam President, I shall begin by answering Mrs Schlitz and Mrs Matz's questions about the Interministerial Conference (IMC) on women's rights. In advance, I will refer to the responses of 8 and 22 April. The Conference is composed of 12 members and is chaired alternately, in accordance with the circular on interministerial conferences. The first round of the Presidency was held by Ms Nawal Ben Hamou, Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities of the Brussels-Capital Region. As far as police and justice directives are concerned, in order to ensure a priority approach to domestic violence, I received yesterday's request from the Minister of the Interior De Crem to discuss this issue together. Of course, I am prepared to discuss with him the extent to which it is necessary to establish new directives or to further strengthen the common directives. For the latter, taken by myself, the Minister of Security and Home Affairs and the College of Attorneys General, the COL 4/2006 revised on 12 October 2015 on violence between partners and the COL 18/2012 on the prohibition of residence are sufficient for the proper functioning of the police and justice. These circulars remain fully applicable. The College of Attorneys General continues to monitor the situation very closely. In the light of these elements, I would like to discuss with my colleague, as well as with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the extent to which new directives could add value in this area. Moreover, as you know, the fight against domestic violence has long been a top priority in security policy. I refer you to the comprehensive security framework note, the national security plan, the zonal security plans and the national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence. Finally, I refer you more generally to the Action Plan against Sexual Violence against Women, which was developed at my initiative and which is being discussed with the relevant community and regional ministers. It serves as a stepping stone in the fight against sexual violence and is shared by the ICD on Women's Rights, the ICD on the Houses of Justice and the drafters of the new National Action Plan on Gender-Based Violence. As part of a comprehensive approach, the proposals were exchanged among all relevant ministers. Then I'll come to the questions about the corona crime. There was a question from Mrs De Wit about the threat to penitentiary officers and police that was expressed in the media on 9 April. This publication invited readers to take advantage of the exceptional context created by the COVID-19 crisis by attacking police forces and prison staff. Unfortunately, that type of call is not new. The OCAD has established a level 2 assessment, i.e. moderate, for the threat against police and penitentiary officers. Furthermore, the OCAD also reiterates Level 2 for the police services in general. In that evaluation, the OCAD made it clear that there are no concrete elements that allow us to think that action would actually be taken. Other publications were later noted in the same media or on other sites. On this basis, the OCAD has re-evaluated the threat and the level 2 is maintained. The evaluations of the OCAD will be delivered to the Crisis Centre and the police services. It goes without saying that the police officers in the field and the prison officials are being sensitized about the threat, but I think it is equally in the interests of everyone's security not to communicate about any measures. I would like to stress once again that the OCAD does not currently have any information that the threat to police officers or penitentiary officers would actually be implemented. The threat is being closely monitored by the Belgian security services. Mrs. Matz asked a question about the racist cyber-hate during the lockdown. Mrs Matz, you are asking me about hate speech, especially racist speech, which is spreading over the Internet, perhaps even more during this period of confinement. The difficulty remains that there is a gap between the general finding of the spread of hate speech online and the very small number of complaints filed. The low rate of complaints is one of the aspects on which a working group coordinated by my firm is working. It brings together Unia, NCIC, the federal police, a representative of the College of Attorneys General, the Minister's Office in charge of Equal Opportunities and the FPS Justice. I am not saying that if complaints were filed, convictions would automatically be reached because these are very delicate procedures and the criminal response is certainly not the only possible answer. I remain concerned by the fact that the prosecutor's office is rarely seized to initiate the proceedings. It is all the more disturbing that with regard to racist discourse online, a specific exception to the assize court has been provided for in article 150 of the Constitution and that obstacle of the assize court is therefore not present here. Justice must do its job when proceedings can be opened, but at this stage the main challenge is to increase the citizen's reaction, whether he is a victim or a user of this speech in general, and to avoid trivialisation. Mrs Özen, with regard to your question on sanctions against companies, I have referred it to the Public Prosecutor's Office. There are not yet any figures available, with the exception of those of the Liège Labour Auditorate, which mention 19 cases, two of which have been the subject of a proposed transaction of 750 euros each. Criminal policy provides that the transaction is the front-line criminal response to this type of offence. In the absence of payment, criminal proceedings will be considered. In other cases, a referral to the Administrative Fines Department will be preferred on the understanding that transactions are established on the basis of an offence under article 5 of the Act of 4 August 1996, punishable under article 127 of the Social Penal Code. I come now to Mrs De Wit's question on the postponement of sex cases as a result of the corona crisis. The judge whether a case should be dealt with immediately in the current crisis lies with the first President and is carried out on the advice of the Attorney General. To this end, consultations between the first President of the Antwerp Appeals Court and the Attorney General, in particular in the field of vice, have been and will be established on a permanent basis. Cases are selected on the basis of both the urgency and the criterion of avoiding as much delay as possible. Matters relating to the impairment of the mental and physical integrity of persons, such as sex cases, theft by violence, intra-family violence and heavy blows, are a priority. The specific case to which you refer came in on 19 February 2020 and was subpoenaed on 23 April 2020 for the specialised C2 chamber. Following the Corona Decision of 17 March 2020, the case was automatically postponed. In view of the first President's decision to resettle the correctional chambers in their normal composition and on the usual days, the case will be reopened in the course of June 2020. Justice is an essential service in society. In accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020, Justice is expected to continue to provide its services, including during the COVID-19 crisis. The court of appeal of Antwerp continued to ensure the continuity of its service by setting up the exceptional criminal chamber C8. For the period from 25 March 2020 to 18 April 2020, that room held a Wednesday sitting in a hall where social-distanting rules could be observed. As of 20 April 2020, that room will hold a session on Monday, Wednesday and Thursday. Mr Van Hecke, you had asked a question about the friendly settlements and the order for payment, but you have not yet asked them. You're gonna ask them anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u11	Minister, I refer to the written text of my question; you can answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u12	As regards the friendly settlement and the order for payment, I would like to refer to the discussions on the proposal concerning the order for payment for the offences related to COOVID-19, which we have just conducted. This is indeed in line with the proposal put forward by Attorney General Erwin Dernicourt; the text of the bill was consulted with the College of Attorneys General. I would like to remind you of the figures that have already been discussed. Since the beginning of the crisis, the police have found 84,000 offences. Approximately 15,000 criminal transactions have been sent and 1,666 have already been paid. I have no other figures. As the period of decline is very short, conclusions can hardly be drawn. It is not because only 10% of transactions have been paid to date that all other cases are overpayments. These figures can only demonstrate the mass of cases that will have to be processed and the importance of an adequate procedure that always leaves the individual the opportunity to challenge the decision at multiple times. It should be noted that if you choose to go through the court system rather than the payment order, the penalty rates are potentially higher, which are accompanied by criminal record registration. We will return to this issue tomorrow noon in this committee. Madam President, so much for the questions about crime and the incidents relating to corona. I turn now to Mr. Pivin's question about economic law and legal measures to support businesses during the pandemic. As Mr. Pivin pointed out, the government has adopted several measures in very different areas, in particular Royal Decree No. 15 of 24 April 2020 on temporary suspension of business, enforcement and other measures during the period of the VOCID-19 crisis. This royal decree constitutes a balloon of oxygen for companies affected by the VOCID-19 pandemic since it grants the latter a legal stay without touching the lever of judicial reorganization proceedings. In order to inform companies, employers' federations organise free online seminars. Information is also available on several sites. As regards the means employed in the framework of the clearance plans, Royal Decree No 15 provides for an additional protection mechanism for undertakings since it provides in particular that the payment periods included in a reorganization plan, as provided for in Article XX.82 of the Code of Economic Law, approved before or during the duration of the order, shall be extended by a period equal to that of the stay provided for in this Order, if any, with an extension of the maximum period of five years for the implementation of the plan. In addition, I can tell you that all these actions are carried out in parallel with the prevention of bankruptcies which fall within the competence of the Regions. Finally, Royal Decree No. 15 aims to avoid as many bankruptcies as possible by granting a stay to companies affected by the VOCID-19 pandemic. The presidents of the company's courts were consulted in order to take the necessary measures and they had already organized themselves in this regard. Then I come to the questions about the prison system, which were asked by Mr Segers and Mrs Rohonyi. As of May 6, 17 inmates have been tested positive for VOCID-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic. Two detainees were released as they were in conditions that allowed their release, four were cured, ten were still contagious and one was still ill. Among these still contagious inmates, some are symptomatic and others are asymptomatic. As far as the staff members tested positive, so far we have 64 people tested positive: 38 are cured and again at work, 26 are still ill. As far as medical absenteeism is concerned, as I have already informed you on 22 April 2020, the total number of patients in technical and surveillance staff reached a peak on 27 March with 1,797 absent. Since then, this number has been steadily decreasing and has reached the 800 absent on May 5, 2020. With regard to Ms Rohonyi's question on the social status of prison staff, the Federal Agency for Occupational Risks (Fedris) confirmed that persons with VOCID-19, diagnosed by the laboratory test, working in the health care sector and at a significantly increased risk of being infected with the virus were entitled to compensation for occupational disease. Cases of VOCID-19 among staff who treat or treat patients and who do not fall into one of the categories that are significantly at increased risk may be recognized if the disease can be linked to documented professional contact with a patient with VOCID-19. It is in the interest of those involved to submit a claim for compensation. Staff members of correctional institutions may submit their applications to their P&O service in accordance with the procedure in force for any occupational disease. Mr Segers, in reply to your question about returning to work after illness and the difference in treatment between staff and inmates, it is the treating doctor who decides whether a staff member is ill and if necessary prescribes a sickness certificate. At the time when the staff member is no longer covered by a disease certificate and therefore, according to the doctor no longer sick or contagious, he must indeed resume his service. Some employees can work telework, but this does not apply to everyone. In prisons, of course, there must always be a physical presence of the staff. Penitentiary staff have an important task in ensuring continuity of services, as in hospitals, rest homes and so on. Protective equipment is made available to employees and every employee receives an FFP1 mask when starting his shift, so that he can work safely at times when social distancing cannot be respected. Hand gel and gloves are available. An inmate showing symptoms may be placed in medical isolation by the physician pending the test results. A period of seven symptom-free days is recommended, not three weeks before the prisoner can return to the normal regime and be in contact with other detainees. I repeat that only a doctor decides on the imposition and lifting of medical isolation. Mr Segers, I can only repeat what I said on 22 April in relation to the administrative situation of staff who are being held in preventive quarantine on the basis of a medical certificate from the treating doctor. Where a staff member submits a medical certificate and is on sick leave, the FPS Justice shall consider the staff member sick, in accordance with the applicable rules, as set out in the latest circular and in the relevant Royal Decree on Civil Service. You can address your question to my colleague responsible for civil servants if you would like more information on this issue. I now turn to the protective equipment in prisons and the questions related to them by Mrs Rohonyi and Mr Segers. With regard to the letter from the Collectif de Lutte Anti-Carceral, I would like to point out that, at the level of hygiene, the Directorate-General for Prisons (DG EPI) was among the first to be able to provide reusable FFP1 protective masks to all its staff working on site, as well as to working prisoners. In the near future, all detainees will also receive similar protective masks. To the impossible no one is bound. The Directorate-General of Penitentiary Institutions, like all other institutions, has been confronted with the shortage that has affected the entire planet. I can assure you that in all prisons, officers respect the hygiene rules and mainly the wearing of masks and gloves. The production of the mouth masks for prisoners is and remains in full swing. Delivery's started. By the end of next week, all prisons should have enough masks for prisoners. That was already the case for the staff, as I said. Inmates will be informed about how and when to wear this mask. It must be noted that the measures taken by DG PPE have borne fruit, since to date only 17 prisoners have been contaminated since the outbreak of the pandemic. This represents approximately 0.18 per cent of the prison population. With regard to the enlargement of the measures adopted in Royal Decree No. 3 of 9 April 2020, it should be noted that these measures, and hence their limitations, have been approved by the ten parties, including yours, in support of the special powers granted to the government, and are therefore the expression of a certain democratic consensus. Mr Segers, as regards the production of mouth masks, the inmates in Oudenaarde made mouth masks at a very high rate from mid-March to mid-April, including two weekends. Three quarters of the total production of the current 61,000 masks comes from Oudenaarde. In the other establishments with a tailor shop, such as Bruges, Berkendael and Bergen, the prisoners achieve less high daily production, so their wages are not as high as those in Oudenaarde. I would also like to point out that in the prisons of Merksplas, Carrot, Antwerp, Beveren, Ruiselede, Marche-en-Famenne, Vorst and Lantin, some fifty prisoners are employed in temporary sewing workshops, especially and primarily to meet their own needs. Several prisoners are currently being trained and capacity is being increased in Leuven Central, among others. I return to the specific situation of high production in the prison of Oudenaarde. The inmates of this prison receive €0.62 per mouth mask. In view of the fact that the 14 prisoners employed have been working in the tailor's shop for years and are therefore very fast and convenient, some of them have produced up to 200 pieces a day. In the first month of production, the Directorate of Prison Labour granted an exception for remuneration, given the exceptional demand in exceptional times. The prisoners have thus received once a wage corresponding to the items delivered. In May, no more than a doubling of the maximum legal amount, which is EUR 594, can be earned. The planned hours of work will be respected and it will also be ensured that the amount of the inmates' remuneration will not exceed the taxable amount. In response to Ms. Rohonyi's question about visits to correctional institutions during periods of deconcentration, detainees for whom there were no restrictions on the right of contact with outsiders during visits or by telephone were allowed to have virtual visits. The number of laptops made available guarantees one call per week. If possible, more calls may be allowed. These are obviously calls by videoconference. Indeed, normal calls are much more frequent and can usually take place from the cell. Inmates for whom the investigating judge has imposed a prohibition on communication are excluded from video-conferencing visits. This is about the so-called incommunicado detention. Detainees for whom the investigating judge has defended visits, correspondence or telephone contacts with persons outside the prison are: detainees who are subject to disciplinary sanctions affecting external contacts, detainees who are subject to a regime of restriction on external contacts and, in particular, those who are subject to a regime of reduced telephone use, who are subject to a special individual security regime or who are subject to individual security measures. All prisoners in all prisons who do not fall under these four categories have access to video-conferencing visits with visitors who are already on the list of visits as well as visitors automatically authorized by the Law of Principles. Additional call credits are compensation but do not necessarily cover all costs associated with telephone calls. The decision to reduce the price of telephone conversations or to offer them free of charge rests with the firm to which the contract was awarded. DG PPE understands very well the importance of visits for detainees and their relatives. It is currently analysing the circumstances under which visits can be re-launched safely as well as the preconditions. The exact date of the resumption of visits will depend on this analysis but also and above all on the instructions of the National Security Council and Sciensano's recommendations on communities. This is what I am talking about in terms of the de-defining of justice and prisons. Ms. Khattabi, the preparation and drafting of the plan for deconfining is under way and is linked to the decisions of the National Security Council and the recommendations of Sciensano. The plan provides for a multi-phase de-configuration to monitor the effects of the various measures on indicators, such as the number of inmates tested positive for VOCID-19 and the number of inmates with symptoms associated with the virus. As I have already said, all prisons have FFP1 masks for all staff and external parts as well as FFP2 masks for contact with people who have been tested positive. They also have sufficient disinfectant gel, gloves and cleaning products to be able to apply all hygiene instructions. As I did in previous meetings of the committee, at the end of these questions on the prison system, I would like to thank the prison staff, the external services, the detainees and the management for their continued commitment and the understanding that they have every day to understand the difficult situation in which they find themselves or in which they have to work. As regards the interruption of the sentence and the release, I would like to reply to Mrs Rohonyi's question, which has been answered for a very long time, because others have also asked a question on the same subject. First of all, Mrs Rohonyi, I can give you the overall figures for the prison population, which currently stands at 9,642 inmates with a capacity of 9,279 – a population reduced to 3.9%. Prior to the Coronavirus crisis, there were about 1,200 more prisoners in prisons. The days on which the convicted person is suspended shall not be counted as days of detention and shall be served thereafter. So this is not a real prison leave, as you said. The measure to reduce the prison population is the provisional release of the convicted person, starting six months before the end of the enforceable part of the sentence. The decision will also be taken by the prison director. It is important to know that this form of release is already generally provided for in article 20/1 of the Law on External Legal Status for Foreign Convicted Persons without Right of Residence, in the context of their imminent removal. There was also a question from Mrs Rohonyi and Mr Segers on the supervision and follow-up of released persons in penalty interruption and the investigation of the receiving environment. Some inmates who had been granted an interruption of their sentences had been given the opportunity to return to their home environment during prison leave prior to the crisis. When an incident occurred in the host environment during the previous leave, it was obviously taken into account. The interruptions of sentence are therefore taking place in the host environment, not – or very exceptionally – in a foster home, whose doors are usually closed or whose capacity has been reduced since the beginning of the crisis. Screening tests were not carried out when the prisons were released, as they were not available in this context. For the time being, they are reserved for inmates. Specific support for this limited period has not been provided, since the usual conditions of preparation for reintegration associated with the leave are suspended as part of the discontinuance of the VOCID-19 sentence. In addition, the majority of support and reception services are closed. However, telephone contacts are still possible via the permanences they have set up. The same applies to contacts with the prison. In particular, with regard to Mr Segers' question on intra-family violence in the event of the interruption of the sentence, I can say that the analysis of the counter-indications is carried out as in the case of other penalties. In the case of convictions for intra-family violence, this aspect is, of course, taken into account in the analysis of the dossier. For his analyses, the Director calls on the advice of the prison psychosocial service (PSD), which examines and fills out the counterindications in accordance with the prescribed guidelines and instruments, including risk assessment tools. These are the same for each PSD and they are controlled by the PSD of the central penitentiary administration. The risk assessment tools used by the PSD for partner violence are the Spousal Assault Risk Assessment Guide (SARA) and also the Brief Spousal Assault Form for the Evaluation of Risk (B-SAFER). B-SAFER is a structured risk assessment tool for relational violence and is closely related to SARA. In case of stalking by the ex-partner, the Stalking Risk Profile can be used. In most cases, the convicts have already had well-executed penitentiary leave and in the procedure prior to the award of such leave, in sensitive family files, surveys have been carried out on care in the home environment. In the event of incident, the withdrawal shall be immediately initiated, whether or not in conjunction with the provisional arrest by the King's Attorney. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police services shall be informed of the granting and the terms of a penalty interruption. The data are stored in the national database I+Belgium. The victims will also be informed. The administration tells me that one withdrawal has taken place, because the person concerned had committed aggressive acts against an ex-partner, i.e. outside the reception environment. Let me turn to Mr. Van Hecke and Mrs Rohonyi concerning the deconfinition of justice. Justice is an essential service in our society. In accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020, Justice is expected to continue to provide its services, including during the COVID-19 crisis. On 21 April I met with the lectures and the orders of lawyers and asked them to reflect together on a strategy for a complete resumption of operation in the courts and courts from 18 May. At that time, the French-speaking order of lawyers suggested the possibility of a reduction in the judicial recess as one of the ideas to make up for the delay in legal proceedings, in so far as the magistrate could agree. In an opinion of 29 April, the Magistrate's Advisory Council, supported by the magistrates' associations, stated that such a measure would not be desirable. The College of the courts and courts also does not consider the proposal appropriate for organisational reasons. In a further consultation between my policy cell, the FPS Justice, the Court of Cassation and the two colleges, agreements were made to bring about the normalization of the entire judicial activities as soon as possible and in safe conditions, as from 18 May. However, nothing prevents the courts that have already taken the necessary security measures to extend all their activities now. On the basis of these agreements, the College of Courts and Courts communicated on 1 May to the management committees of all courts recommendations concerning, inter alia, hygiene, social distancing and the organisation of the courts. For example, the premises will need to be regularly ventilated and cleaned in accordance with the guidance provided by the FPS. All necessary signalling and protection equipment (plexiglas) can also be ordered via the Justice FPS. Courts are invited to adapt their organisation to the extent possible in order to avoid the presence of too many people at the same time in the buildings. The College suggests that the hours at which the various cases are brought before the courts be posted at the front door and accessible via the website so that any person concerned by a case enters only at the time indicated. Videoconferencing hearings are encouraged as well as recourse to the written procedure if and only if it proves appropriate. If, despite the application of hygiene and organisational measures, the rules of social distancing cannot be complied with, a mask or equivalent should be worn. This applies to staff and magistrates as well as visitors. These recommendations must now be adapted to the specificities on the ground. Their implementation is being prepared in collaboration with the building managers, the relevant corps chiefs, the prevention advisers and the infrastructure department of the Justice FPS. If necessary, it is envisaged that additional staff will be hired to organise traffic properly and to verify compliance with social distancing in courthouses or for cleaning tasks. My firm remains in close contact with colleges to meet any challenges encountered in the coming weeks. With regard to the part of Mrs Khattabi's question concerning the breakdown of the prison services, I refer to my reply concerning the situation in prisons. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you had a question about the video conference in lawsuits and investigations. I have questioned the College of the Courts and Courts and the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but they could not provide me with an overview of the sessions that took place through videoconference within this short period of time. I believe that it is far too early for an initial evaluation or for the submission of statistics. I can confirm, however, that our ICT staff has responded very carefully once social distancing measures have been introduced and has immediately acquired an important capacity for videoconferencing, namely 8,000 licences and 1,500 simultaneous users. The video conferences are used in different circumstances, both for the functioning of the FPS Justice and my cabinet as well as in the courts, to enable the lawyers in investigating courts to keep in touch with their clients during the hearing. You referred to the successful test in Mechelen, which was reported in the media, but also all other civil courts can, thanks to the possibility provided for in the proxy decision No. 2, use videoconferencing to hold interactive sessions as an alternative to a plea or a written hearing. The first tests were also welcomed for the regulation of virtual visits to the prisoners in our prisons. Its national roll-out will soon be completed, as already mentioned. The youth institutions have also requested and received licences to support their operation. In addition, the Institute for Judicial Training makes intensive use of videoconferencing. For example, webinars were already held for 100 participants. The capacity is increased to 1,000 participants. Through the videoconferencing tool, the IGO will provide support in change management in accelerating the introduction of the various possibilities of digitalisation, such as digital signing and sending, the further roll-out of MACH, the electronic management of beliefs and so on. As you can see, this crisis also offers opportunities. We are all obliged to reorganise and learn new habits and practices. Some of them will be temporary and disappear with the crisis, others will remain because they offer more benefits and will be part of what is called the new normal. I hope that, at the end of September, we will be able to carry out an evaluation with Parliament on the basis of the first statistical figures and see how we can proceed with videoconferencing in a meaningful way within Justice. You know that all the measures currently being used under the power of attorney decisions are temporary in nature. I come to a number of questions from Mr Segers and Mrs De Wit. In accordance with the guidelines of the FPS Public Health, all hospitals decided to cancel non-urgent consultations, including medical age surveys. Consequently, the Voogdij department of the FPS Justice can only have tests carried out for urgent cases. Since then, 45 persons pursuing the status of unaccompanied minor stranger have been waiting for a medical examination of age. The Voogdij service, which is and remains available 24 hours a day, appointed 146 guardians in March and 68 in April. In consultation with Fedasil, the Voogdij Department appoints temporary guardians for young people who have doubts about their age when they are transferred from the observation and orientation centres to a second-line reception centre. Fedasil has decided to offer only shelter to vulnerable unaccompanied minors, for example the victims of trafficking in human beings. Consequently, 16- and 17-year-old boys are no longer receiving reception without an asylum application. However, where, according to the Voogdij service, reception was needed for these young people, the service found reception with NGOs or services of the Communities or, via the online registration of asylum applications, it was directed to the registration centre. For further information, please refer to my competent colleague, Minister De Block. I would also refer to my colleague for the emergency reception regime which is still in force and for the allocation of persons to the asylum procedure. The psychoaffective conversations you speak of are not based on scientifically based methods and are therefore not used. However, the Voogdij department will do everything in its power to take back the medical age studies to a limited extent from 11 May. Finally, with regard to your question on the remuneration of guardians, I can inform you that they receive a flat-rate fee per custody granted each year. Mrs. De Wit, you had a question about the trial of Julie Van Espen's murder. In the report that was broadcast yesterday, the detectives didn't speak. Fortunately, therefore, there can be no consequences for the judicial investigation in this dramatic case. Before the broadcast, I submitted your question to the Attorney General of Antwerp. He informed me that it is not appropriate for investigators to cooperate in reports of crimes still under investigation, precisely to avoid violating the secrecy of the investigation. For this reason, neither the investigating court nor the prosecutor's office cooperated in the elaboration of the report. I share the views of the Attorney General. It is indeed in everyone's interest, and certainly in the interests of Julie's family, who has been so badly affected and who is so constructive that the procedure and the future process can proceed in serene and without any incident. As far as timing is concerned, the Attorney General has informed me of the following. The corona crisis has in general seriously disturbed the timing of the already planned sessions of the Court of Assists and, therefore, those of the criminal cases which have not yet been referred to the Court, including those of Mr Baekelmans. A consultation between Mr Attorney General and Mr First President is planned shortly in order to establish a schedule for the timely handling of the current aid cases. I will urge the Attorney General to deal with and prosecute these serious crimes as quickly as possible in compliance with the rules of criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u13	Minister, thank you for these complete answers. With regard to cybercrime, I have heard your concern about how these complaints can be traced since few complaints are filed. That seems essential to me. The most important thing for the victims is that, first, the content should be withdrawn as quickly as possible and, second, the perpetrators should be punished. With regard to violence against women, you say about the same thing at each meeting without giving much more information on very concrete measures. You refer to the different strategic plans we know, but we need not only concrete measures but also means to implement all these measures. I do not hide from you that I remain a little on my hunger as to the possibility of speeding up the circular in particular. I hear you're going to look into this, but I think that could have already happened. Indeed, since the end of March, I ask you to take this step. So it could have been much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Indeed, the figures on the collections of friendly settlements had already been brought to my attention following the discussion this afternoon. We will continue the discussion on this tomorrow. From your reply, I have also understood very well that out of the 15,000 friendly settlements already sent, some 1,600 have been paid, but the payment period has not yet expired for all these friendly settlements. They are therefore provisional and very partial figures. Together with many others, I hope that these fines will be paid quickly, so that justice is taxed as little as possible. For the rest, I hope that you will continue to consult with the lawyer and the majesty to make good arrangements about the restart and possible work during the holiday periods. I think consultation is better than coercion. I hope that constructive dialogue can be established in the public interest and in the interests of those seeking justice and those working within justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u15	Madam President, with regard to the production of mouth masks, the Minister seems to be avoiding the question by telling us that the mask is produced from beginning to end by the same prisoner. I am told that this is not the case. Quality control and packaging can only be carried out by one inmate. This could bring him up to 1,200 euros. This also works for cutting ribbon and fabric. This can be left to prisoners other than those who finish the masks on the stitching machine. I would ask you to watch over this. I have asked you a number of questions, but I will explain the question about the reception of unaccompanied minors. I was very concerned when I heard earlier that in practice certain unaccompanied minors are not being taken care of. My concern was not addressed by Minister De Block's reply last week in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs. She's referring to you. I believe that you, as a Christian Democrat, also find the non-reception of young people unacceptable, and I call on you to take action. You should have sounded the alarm earlier, because you also knew through your service that due to circumstances the age estimates had stopped. This almost systematically puts young people at the disadvantage of the doubt. I urge you not to miss the boat again. There is a real chance that there will be one or more periods of intertwined measures. This means that there will be a new emergency regime in hospitals and that there will be no more age provisions according to the current methods, and who knows once again that there will be reception problems for unaccompanied minors. The current age determinations through radiography of teeth, wrist and collarbone are far from perfect and according to the sp.a fraction not reliable enough. The fact that a person is declared underage or adult by the tests does not mean that this is actually the case. In some countries wisdom teeth come faster, bone ripening depends on origin, pregnancy can affect, including for example an abused girl, trauma causes aging, food can play a role and so on. I come to the conclusion that the methods used are not reliable. Mr Minister, make the need for these corona times a virtue and make the crisis an opportunity. It is downright wrong to say that this would not be scientific. Look at the good practices abroad, which are indeed there, as in Ireland and Australia. In a country like Australia, 86 percent of estimates based on multidisciplinary research are accurate up to one year. Research that and experiment with it. These are, in a way, the perfect conditions for putting this right, in the absence of tests in the hospital. This situation may reappear in this way. The new multidisciplinary test has already been made possible by the KB in the custody law. It doesn't have to be on the verge of one day, feel free to set up a route. In the meantime, remove those who are too old, but make sure that the others get the benefit of the doubt and make sure that the unaccompanied minors can stay in their quarters, or at least in a cave. Also ensure the systematic appointment of a guardian. Mind your business, Minister, so that Minister De Block cannot again blame you, and so that the practice of systematically refusing to accept care ceases. Use this opportunity and now work on that multidisciplinary age assessment, so that we are ready for a further period of intertwined measures. Hopefully, this test will be on the verge of being used sustainably afterwards. That would be a wonderful achievement. I would therefore like to wish you and the Voogdij service every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your answers, although I have to say to you, with regard to violence against women – I did not put a question, but you know that I am quite reactive on this subject – I am very disappointed to hear the same from you every time. I hear that the fight against violence against women is a priority of our prosecutors' offices, our police areas. But it is a speech that the associations, that the victims, that their lawyers can no longer hear. What is really needed today is for the federal government, as well as the federated entities, to take its responsibilities with very concrete measures, on the basis, in particular, of what is being done abroad, and which is working. I really wanted to point the finger at this, especially since you made a commitment in committee on 22 April to draw up a joint circular with your colleague from the Interior, and now you tell us that, finally, you still have to study the added value that such a circular would have. With regard to the functioning of the courts and tribunals as such in this period of health crisis, I thank you, because it was indeed important to hear from you on this subject. The judicial sector – at least that's what it's all about – really feels like it's abandoned, forgotten about the decisions of the National Security Council. We can still see it today with this famous open letter addressed to you by the criminal lawyers. I regret, however, that, for lack of means, the heads of bodies were forced to take the lead, to manage to ensure a minimum of health security in our courts and tribunals. I understand that clear guidelines, and this was requested by the Judicial Advisory Council, will come to them with regard to masks and ambient air purification. This is very good, but it will really be necessary to make sure that these directives arrive in time to allow them to organize themselves at best by May 18. As far as prison officers are concerned, I understand that a peak was reached on 27 March with regard to absences due to illness, and that in the meantime, this rate has decreased. But when we see the figures that came to us on the day of 20 April 2020, the rate of absence was still extremely important. It ranged from 20 to 25 per cent. We see that, even though working conditions improve with the decrease in the prison population, this remains insufficient. It will be necessary to be able to work on improving their working conditions as such. With regard to the follow-up of detainees released temporarily, you confirm that the persons who were released could not be detected. It is, in my opinion, a serious error in strategy and coherence in our crisis management because prisoners who leave prison must be able to be detected in the same way as those who enter prison. It is a matter of coherence. With regard to protective equipment in prisons, I understand that, in the near future, prisoners will be able to have masks. That's very good, but I would have liked to know more about this timing because "in short" it means everything and nothing. Finally, I conclude with the question of visits to prisons. I understand that measures have been taken, but each time these measures take place with a certain delay in relation to what is decided for life outside. When we are told today that families will be able to meet for Mother's Day on May 10, 2020, we are told, at the same time, that in prison, visits will begin to organize in a virtual way. This is regrettable and is contrary to what is required by the law of principles and its principle of normalization, according to which conditions in prison must be as close as possible to conditions outside. Minister, I regret this and ask you to make these physical visits possible, especially since the conditions will be met, given that you have assured us that detainees will soon benefit from these masks and that, at the same time, anyone who returns to prison (visitors, lawyers, etc.) These masks will be available. Minister, the conditions are in place. I would therefore urge you to make these visits possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. Ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting concept is certainly special, because there is a great deal of information and I would like to respond to other things as well. In my opinion, too much information comes together at one time. Minister, I am very pleased to hear that the possible postponement of sex cases is being carried out entirely on the advice of the public prosecutor and that there is a permanent consultation on it, so that matters such as damage to physical integrity and vice continue to receive priority treatment even in times of corona. You have also confirmed that justice is indeed an essential service which must continue as far as possible. I am therefore pleased to hear that several criminal chambers have been set up to make this possible, because that gives me some confidence. With regard to my question about the anarchist calls for violence against guards, police and telecommunications infrastructure, there are also videos of arson in cell towers, I hope for a proper follow-up. Hopefully, there are no concrete indications that this is more than just talking on the Internet. The follow-up is important to me, because calls for violence against police and guards are already unacceptable, but the associated suggestion that the corona crisis means that no one is on their guard, so that potential perpetrators can now benefit from it, makes these calls so bad. In another question, I also expressed my concern about the trial of Julie Van Espen's murder. I am glad that the detectives did not get involved in the television report, because otherwise it would affect serenity, especially because it is a hanging file. If we can learn one thing from the attitude of the Van Espen family, it is serenity and dignity. Participation of investigators in a reportage would have been very much in contrast to the attitude taken by the family so far. I hope that you will insist in your consultation that such matters should be dealt with in good time and that there should be more than one case that needs to be dealt with in good time and that there should be no further delay. The current crisis affects everyone, but a delay in assistive cases may also make it more difficult for the families concerned. That is why I hope you will ask for a nice schedule to be drawn up so that the dossiers can be continued as best as possible according to the more or less planned timing, which means as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u19	Mrs Khattabi, excuse me for interrupting, but the President should have given me the floor several minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u20	Yes, it is. I therefore ask you to excuse me, Mrs Schlitz, and I give you the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u21	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, but I did not ask you to give me a course on legislation in this area. Nevertheless, I got it. Thank you. On the other hand, you have not given me specific answers to my questions, as has been the case for several weeks. Already on 25 March, together with my colleague Jessika Soors, I wrote to you a letter in which we asked you about a number of issues. We have also asked you, on various occasions in the Committee on Justice, specific questions. And we still haven't received an answer. I am thinking in particular of the question of the temporary ban on residence, an instrument that, to your mind, works during the VOCID-19 pandemic, when it is not. As the Attorney General, Mr. From Valkeneer, this tool is not or extremely little used. I asked you for figures at our last committee meeting, which I did not get. Furthermore, according to the latest information available to me, the circular that was to be revised following the evaluation is still not applicable, which is problematic. I do not think that this tool can be used to combat domestic violence. I cannot hear that the current legislative arsenal is sufficient to address the problems associated with the crisis we are experiencing today. There are three times as many calls on the listening lines and they are saturated. In addition, your colleague, Mr. De Crem, says that the police are also facing an increase in cases, as is the case at the level of justice. Action must be taken by the government. We therefore expect you to provide resources to meet the challenges. In Spain, a plan to combat violence was put in place, from the very beginning of confinement, in order to respond adequately to the situation. It must be noted that Belgium is still lagging behind at this level. I assume that the deconfinity will be lifted when your circular is adopted, which I very much regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. You rightly recalled the existence and, above all, the content of Order No 15 and the measures intended for undertakings. I have also heard you say that the presidents of the company's courts have been consulted and organized, but you have not told me whether your intention is to increase their staff. If I quoted the president of the Brussels company court, it was precisely because a couple of days or three weeks ago, he pointed out that it was impossible to strengthen judicial reorganization procedures with the existing staff. So I would have liked to know if your intention was to meet this request they are making or if you would let them organize themselves between them without considering any reinforcements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u23	Minister, my question followed the statements of various justice actors in the press in recent days. There is a variety of information about the timing of deconfination in prisons or in courts and tribunals. I had the hope that through the answer you could give me, both of them would have a clear vision, at least a perspective. It's the perspective that gives hope and it would make it stop making everything and anything circulate. I take note of this and understand that it will take place in several phases. You say that this plan will be carried out according to the NSC's instructions. We are millions to follow the press conferences after the NSC meetings and each of us is trying to identify with one of the targeted categories by wondering if we are concerned by the 4th, 11th or 18th May. Justice professionals, such as detainees and their families, also wondered what category they were included in and when they were affected. Here, you don't give a date. Is that to say that even by May 18, there is no prospect? I don't have the answer. Even if things are not specific, communicating a timing would give families and inmates some hope. We have heard with great pleasure the Prime Minister speak about the date of May 10 for four-way meetings. Next to that, you tell us that prisons are well equipped with gels and masks. The two put together would make it possible to consider a visit to prison, be it the lawyer, associations, etc. With regard to my question on freezing and masks, it dealt with the plan for de-confining and the prospect of reopening certain activities and not the current situation. The resumption of certain activities, such as sport, will require more equipment than is the case today. At the time of the breakdown, will it be possible to equip the prisons with the necessary equipment? It will take more than what they receive today. I will follow developments with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u24	I believe that everyone has replicated, so we can conclude this topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic172x.u25	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55005428C, 55005429C, 55005431C and 55005460C by Mrs Khattabi, 5505595C and 5505597C by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, and Question No 55005760C by Mrs Soors will be converted into written questions.
