ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start immediately, as the Minister has to leave at 3.45 p.m. In an introductory statement, the Minister will provide an answer to the questions submitted, then the questioners, in order to submit their question, may reply and, if necessary, ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my introduction is based on the questions put to me by the committee members. I've grouped them by subject and then by petitioner. As an introduction and in response to the questions put by Mr De Vriendt and Mr Crombez, COVID-19, Africa is in danger of hitting both plumbing, social and economically harder than other continents. To date, more than 10,000 confirmed cases of corona contamination and more than 500 corona-related infections have been reported throughout the African continent. These confirmed figures hit 45 of the 47 countries on the continent. However, given the very limited test capacity, we can assume that the real figures are much higher. This is also confirmed by our diplomatic posts and development cooperation posts on the ground. Which partner countries are most affected is therefore very difficult to determine today. What is clear is that we are at the beginning of a large increase in COOVID-19 contamination. According to World Health Organisation estimates, the number of infected people on the African continent could reach 10 million. In particular, vulnerable groups are at risk of being affected disproportionately. People with HIV, TB and malaria, like children and displaced persons, are in danger of being severely affected. Also, IDP internally displaced persons or people staying in a refugee camp are particularly vulnerable. The threat of the corona virus is a huge challenge in almost all African countries. Dr. Tedros recently stated that the WHO's main concern is the spread of COOVID-19 to countries with weak health care. Their health systems are simply not equipped for a pandemic. There is a lack of infrastructure for hospitals and health centres, a lack of medical equipment and a shortage of trained medical staff. Mr Boukili, today there is a real risk that this crisis will lead to the implosion of health systems that are already very weak in Africa. It could also become the Achilles tendon of the global fight against the virus. If we fail to contain the virus in Africa and cure the people who suffer from it, we will also find it difficult to get rid of it at home. I believe that it is also in our interest and in the interest of our health care to help the weakest health systems in the world to control and eradicate this pandemic. We must also prevent new homes in Africa from generating growing conflicts or waves of immigration. Let us not forget the socio-economic impact, since it is also very negative for Africa. First of all, a whole range of incomes is falling sharply, and I am thinking of lower exports of natural resources, but also of reduced tourism. The consequences for the local population are often disastrous, because, unlike us, a social safety net is missing or extremely limited in many African countries. This means that the upcoming global recession will also affect Africa disproportionately. Mrs Van Hoof, also in the Palestinian territories, one of our country's 14 partner countries, is extremely precarious. The spread of the virus is particularly likely to have dramatic consequences in the Gaza Strip for the already very vulnerable population due to the precarious health, social and economic situation and high population density. There is also a chronic shortage of essential medicines. A pandemic in Gaza cannot be adequately managed. There is a great need for medical equipment and equipment and there is also a shortage of medical staff. Mr De Vriendt, you asked a question about international response. The speed and extent of this crisis has surprised the entire international community. As a moderate medium-sized donor, our country attaches particular importance to a coordinated, multilateral and European approach. However, it is clear that global international coordination of the response to this pandemic is still developing. At the global level, the WHO is in charge of health, humanitarian aid at OCHA, food security at FAO and the Bretton Woods institutions for the socio-economic dimension of the pandemic. Mr De Maegd, with regard to WHO in particular, we are following developments closely following the US President's decision to suspend his financial support to WHO. We also want transparency in the management of the global crisis of VOCID-19 by our multilateral partner organizations such as WHO. However, in the midst of a pandemic, WHO must be able to focus its attention on emergencies and monitor the situation closely. We believe that WHO deserves the explicit expression of our support for its indispensable role in managing this crisis: its normative role, its role in coordinating the international response, its role in strengthening the health systems of the least developed countries and its role in research and development are all crucial at this time. In the meantime, we will coordinate with the other Member States of the European Union in order to try to define a common position on this issue when the time to address it is more appropriate. But it is clear that the time is not ripe, in the midst of a global crisis. I now respond to Mr. Ben Achour. To date, several funds have been activated at the UN level. The United Nations Secretary-General has established the United Nations VOCID-19 Response and Recovery Multi-Partner Trust Fund (MPTF). It is a fund to assist the United Nations in its coordinated multi-agency and multi-sectoral response. OCHA and WHO launched a $2 billion joint fund call for the Global Humanitarian Response Plan (GHRP). Under the coordination of WHO, a VOCID-Solidarity Response Fund was also activated for $675 million to fund WHO, UNICEF and research activities. Apart from UNDP, there was no specific request to Belgium. Mr. Boukili, at the level of the United Nations Security Council, we welcome the Secretary-General's call for a comprehensive ceasefire that is critical to the fight against the virus. Our country, as a non-permanent member, continues to reiterate the importance of addressing the risk of pandemics in the most vulnerable countries, particularly in Africa. At a meeting with the Secretary-General, our country expressed concern about the humanitarian consequences of the disruption of supply chains and restrictions on the movement of people and goods. We reiterated our support for humanitarian organizations and stressed the crucial importance of enabling them to continue their activities. Belgium also stressed the danger that drastic emergency measures resulting from this crisis could be used to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms and block humanitarian aid. Mrs Van Hoof, in the Security Council, our country has repeatedly expressed its concern about the specific situation in the Gaza Strip. Belgium consistently calls for the blockade of the Gaza Strip to be lifted and for free humanitarian access to be granted, in accordance with international humanitarian law. Even more than usual, this is crucial today. Our country also argues in the Security Council to step up the facilitation of measures for access to essential goods and equipment, as well as medical personnel. In the UN and EU context, our country is in dialogue with various actors, including Israel, in order to facilitate humanitarian access to Gaza in the context of this crisis. Mrs Van Hoof and Mr De Vriendt, the Belgian Development Cooperation's response builds on our strong internationally recognised reputation in the field of health care, and specifically in the field of vaccine development. Health projects are supported in 9 of our 14 partner countries. They enrol in two policy pillars: support for health systems and support for human rights. In this sense, Belgian development cooperation is an example of the application of the OECD recommendation to give priority to structural support for health systems. The COOVID-19 policy of our Development Cooperation will anchor itself on this expertise and priorities. Then I come to the questions of Mr De Vriendt, Monsieur De Maegd and Monsieur Ben Accour. Our action will be reflected in the approach set out by the European Union and the United Nations. We will do so on the basis of existing instruments and our current partners. This means that we work both through the funding of flexible funds and through the general resources of international partner organisations and specialised civil society organisations. I can tell you that our contributions to their core budget are greatly appreciated by our multilateral partners. It gives our partner organisations the flexibility to immediately adapt their strategies to the new reality. As long ago as the end of March, I commissioned additional flexibility to enable our partner countries to quickly switch over and adapt ongoing health programmes in order to combat COOVID-19. In a first step, we are talking about EUR 6 million. This should allow for immediate needs such as protection, diagnosis or treatment products and equipment. The analysis for further redirections is still ongoing. In addition, the unused funds will also be redistributed to strengthen the humanitarian response. Here we are talking about EUR 22 million. No new financial resources are currently planned. In the medium and long term, my administration is currently finalizing a note on a strategy to respond to the challenges posed by the VOCID-19 pandemic in the countries and partner organisations of Belgian development cooperation and humanitarian aid, the health component. This strategy aims to stimulate maximum coherence between the various Belgian cooperation channels around the short-, medium- and long-term response to the health consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis. In the medium to long term, this strategy aims at the resilience of our partner countries' health systems and the provision of a vaccine against VOCID-19 to their populations. Mrs Depoorter, this reflection will also have to take into account an important impact on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. I believe that the crisis reaffirms the importance of the normative framework in which the development objectives were formulated. In the coming months, we will have to assess to what extent and how certain commitments should be adjusted if necessary. In concrete terms, the COOVID-19 response of Belgian Development Cooperation will focus on four dimensions. The first, most acute, is humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid is mainly managed through flexible funds from the United Nations and the Red Cross. Funds can be mobilized quickly. One of the central funds to which our country is contributing is the Central Emergency and Response Fund (CERF) of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). This fund enables OCHA to respond to the most urgent needs in a timely and coordinated manner. Last year, Belgium contributed EUR 17 million to this fund. A new contribution of 17 million from our country is planned for 2020. OCHA released a total of US$95 million from CERF to fund the overall response to minimize VOCID-19. This funding includes the World Health Organization (WHO) to support fragile health systems, UNICEF for prevention activities, including the distribution of health kits to schools, and the World Food Programme for humanitarian logistics operations. Flexible funds can meet the needs of the very first need, but these needs are growing rapidly and this trend is expected to continue in the weeks and months to come. OCHA and WHO have therefore launched the Global Humanitarian Response Plan to VOCID-19. Both organizations are calling for additional humanitarian efforts, given the rapid growth of humanitarian needs due to VOCID-19. I will therefore prepare, within the limits of the available budgets, a humanitarian contribution of EUR 22 million. As a first step, €5 million will be allocated to CERF and €5 million to the International Federation of the Red Coix. This will bring total humanitarian spending in 2020 to EUR 192 million, a record amount ever granted to humanitarian aid by our country. Mr Crombez, over the past few weeks, our country has also taken logistical action by taking humanitarian material from organisations such as Enabel, UNICEF, Doctors Without Borders and the Institute of Tropical Medicine on repatriation flights from partner countries. As regards the urgent delivery of urgent medical supplies from Belgium, I can tell you that they are screened extensively by the Shortages Task Force before the material leaves for our partner countries. Mrs Van Hoof, with regard to our specific humanitarian commitments in the Gaza Strip, I would like to stress that Belgium is a flexible and predictable donor. For example, Belgium has for many years supported OCHA's humanitarian fund for the occupied Palestinian territories, which enables organisations to quickly access funding in changing circumstances. In this context, EUR 1 million has already been allocated to the response to the health risks related to COOVID-19. In addition, we also contribute to the local response through our financial amounts to UNRWA and the ICRC. So much for the humanitarian part. A second dimension concerns the scientific aspect, in particular the development of a vaccine. This vaccine should be introduced as soon as possible. It's the only way to beat COVID-19 once and for all. It is essential that international funding for the development of vaccines is pooled efficiently channeled to various players. This is done through the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). This is a flexible platform of public and private actors working together to accelerate the development of vaccines. CEPI was founded in 2017 after the Ebola crisis and our country joined the CEPI that same year. CEPI fully subscribes to the strong cooperation between the WHO, the World Bank and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI). For this purpose, CEPI attracts key donors who give it a special financial capacity that significantly enhances the opportunities for maximum impact. CEPI's positive cooperation with our country dates from 2017 and is operationally driven by the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp. You know that Peter Piot, for example, plays an important role in the creation of CEPI. Given the potential impact on countries with a weak health system, the Council of Ministers approved funding of EUR 5 million on my proposal in March 2020. These are funds that come from underutilised funds. Above all, it is important that funding is available quickly, so that we do not have an unnecessary delay in the search for a vaccine that is also affordable and remains accessible to the poorest. With regard to Mrs Depooster's question on the further financing of CEPI in a subsequent phase of research, it will be for the next government to make this choice. In my view, a possible contribution should not necessarily be limited to development cooperation or public funding. I can also confirm that my participation in One World: Together at Home was achieved at the request of the organisers, on the basis of a decision already taken in March 2020 by the Council of Ministers, which is part of our country's long-standing commitment to development and healthcare. The third aspect is not less acute, but at least equally important: the structural development gap. The Belgian development agency Enabel is looking at the speed with which it can adapt its current programme of health services in our partner countries in order to prepare local health systems as much as possible for a COVID-19 crisis. In March, part of the medical equipment was handed over to the DRC. In Burkina Faso and Senegal, capacity enhancement projects are also being implemented. In the very short term, a budget of EUR 6 million has been made available by internal relocation. I expect this budget to increase in the coming months. Enabel is currently examining how other development interventions that are no longer fully feasible or pertinent due to the crisis can be reoriented. The aim is also to strengthen the impact of our development cooperation with international cooperation between the European Commission and other EU Member States, under the heading of Team Europe. In Niger, for example, Enabel will implement a Covid-19 project of around €6 million financed by the EU, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. I now turn to questions from Mr De Vriendt and Mr Ben Accour. Several partner countries, of course, also have non-governmental actors with complementary and specific expertise. Many of them are already active in the field of health. Cooperation will be based on societal organizations as well as institutional actors such as the Institute of Tropical Medicine. Other non-governmental cooperation partners, such as our mutual societies and trade unions, have complementary expertise in internationally recognized social protection. I am prepared to review applications for adaptation to existing programs, in accordance with the provisions of existing regulations. At the moment, non-governmental cooperation has not received requests for increased resources. However, thanks to the envelopes at their disposal, some actors have already reallocated their resources. The fourth section deals with the economic dimension, cited by Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Depoorter and Mr De Maegd. My services are currently drafting an assessment of the responses to the socio-economic impacts of the pandemic. It will address, inter alia, the importance of social protection, agriculture and food security, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the inequalities experienced by women and girls. In the short term, it is important, as in Belgium, not to allow healthy SMEs in Africa to be overwhelmed by temporary restrictions. A company that was healthy before this crisis will be healthy after that. The Belgian Investment Company in Developing Countries (BIO) can play a role in this. The investments of BIO and development cooperation institutions, known as the DFIs, from other EU Member States can, in turn, count on guarantees from the European Investment Bank. Our country also actively advocated a moratorium on the debt repayments of the least developed countries until March next year. This concerns bilateral debts as agreed by the Paris Club and the G20. Other multilateral creditors and private creditors are asked to make the same decision. This is a historic step because, for the first time, countries like China are participating in a process of the Club of Paris. It provides a first form of liquidity bridging for the least developed countries. Madame de Laveleye, I want to stress the critical importance of the participation of all the creditors concerned, including those who are not members of the Paris Club. IMF and World Bank data show that out of the total bilateral debt of $14 billion, the debts of non-members of the Paris Club amount to $10 billion. Cash released must be spent on strengthening social and health services. For multilateral institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank, a moratorium is Statutoryly difficult. However, these institutions will make a considerable effort to meet the needs of low-income countries. Mrs de Laveleye and Mr Ben Achour, the IMF will considerably expand and accelerate the access of these countries to concessional resources, which will lead to a significant increase in net monetary flows from the IMF to these countries in the short and medium term. The Fund provides debt relief through the Catastrophic Container Relief Trust Fund (CCRT). A number of donors, including the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, have already pledged funds. The World Bank Group has made available a $14 billion package for a first phase for social and health services. For the second phase, the World Bank also announced a $150 billion support programme to address social and economic benefits in the next 15 months. Mrs de Laveleye always, now that we have responded to the most urgent needs, we have some time to define the criteria for possible debt cancellation in an inclusive and transparent manner. The World Bank and IMF will analyse this issue in the coming months. In addition, it should be noted that, after most developing countries had already obtained debt cancellation in 1996, the current rising debt rate is mainly due to non-concessional loans from private creditors and lenders who are not members of the Paris Club, e.g. China. In particular, it will be important to avoid the use of financial resources that could be released through possible debt cancellations to incur additional debts for the repayment of other creditors. A further comment concerns the compensation that multilateral development banks should receive from their shareholders when they write off debts. It is clear that for many shareholders, including our country, this decision must be properly weighed in the current budgetary context. In conclusion, this COOVID-19 crisis also clearly shows a geopolitical dimension. China, for example, was there as the chickens to help infected countries, including in Africa, with large loads of mouth masks. There was also a lot of indirect criticism of tackling the crisis in Europe. Some suggested that the virus could spread to Africa and other countries. In this context of disinformation and fake news, it is important that we actively communicate with our European partners. To this end, I believe that the above-mentioned approach through Team Europe has a crucial and central role to play. I therefore see development cooperation as an important strategic policy instrument. It is a lever that can make a difference visible and directly to broad population groups. I therefore welcome the intention of the Presidents of the European Commission and the European Council to take on a driving role from Europe to give more active form to global coordination action on Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have twenty minutes to reply, ten minutes for the Minister to reply and possibly ten minutes for additional replies. Every questioner now has two minutes, in the order of the questioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u4	Mr Minister, I would like to start with the point that you have ended up with, namely the importance of development cooperation. We have learned a great deal in a short time in this crisis, both in Belgium and globally. We have learned that our health system is only as strong as the weakest link. A virus is cross-border, including in Africa. We must make sure that we do everything we can to combat that virus. From the lessons we have learned, we can remember three things. These are three interests that I really want to put at the heart of, three questions to you about the future and possibly also for the next government. Firstly, we need to focus structuralally on development cooperation, on those vulnerable groups and on those basic sectors. The OECD, too, is calling for this. The importance of basic health care and basic food security is now recognised. We ourselves are now experiencing here in the North what such a crisis means in a country. Qualitative health care and access to it will then become essential. We must continue to focus even more on structural health care, basic education and, of course, food security. Secondly, you yourself referred to social protection. We also discussed this in the previous legislature. If one has setbacks, does not have a job or becomes ill, a care system is needed. That reception system is lacking in developing countries. We have been here for a month and a half about unemployment benefits and how we should take care of people who are ill. The same must be done with regard to development cooperation. Those reception systems and social protection must be provided. There is a reflection paper at the level of the administration. The reflection paper urgently needs to become a position paper. What is the state of play with regard to this reflection paper on social protection in the administration? Four billion people have no social protection. We need to work on this. Thirdly and finally, multilateral cooperation is also important. You referred to it. You invest well in that, too. It is important that we continue to recognise our Belgian expertise. You referred to the ITM and the development of vaccines. That is a very good thing. We must also continue to use our Belgian expertise, including in the NGOs. We are also asking for additional resources and a reorientation to be made possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. We've had a lot of information. I'm going to focus on three things. You have spoken of a Belgian response strategy to the VOCID-19 and I think it would be interesting if Parliament could have rapid access to it for possible co-construction, while hoping that it will be co-built with civil society, which is working on its own position. Furthermore, what is the message Belgium is trying to convey to the multilateral level? We are at the World Bank, what positions were held last weekend during the Spring Meetings? You say that the debt negotiations will take place in the coming months. I refer the matter to our Parliament because I believe it is important that we can co-build the positioning of our representatives at the World Bank and challenge them from Parliament. They were to be invited, and I reiterate this request. You mentioned that you were able to find an additional EUR 22 million for humanitarian aid for this year. That corresponds to about 1 per cent of our official development assistance, which is just under two billion. We welcome the fact that resources have been found quickly, but we believe that, given the seriousness of the situation for the countries of the South, an additional effort should be made in the coming months. There was much talk of additional support for humanitarian assistance. We cannot be content with a humanitarian response, we must respond structurally to the needs of the people of the South in terms of the health system, social protection or the food system. This will obviously go beyond the country's humanitarian needs and will therefore have to be supported in the coming months and years. As such, I can only regret the OECD's announcement that we are only 0.42 per cent of our RMB for official development assistance. We're still in a downward phase. If you don't mind, Mrs Van Hoof, I just end with the debt issue. You are telling us in a completely transparent way that, for the time being, the cancellation of bilateral debts is not envisaged. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that a multi-stakeholder reflection is taking place on the moratorium. You're right, bilateral debts aren't the heaviest today. They come from other creditors, whether public or private. Now, as parliamentarians, we need to know how much these bilateral debts amount. I came back with a written question about that. We will return to this in our future work. We continue to say that these debts must be cancelled. This is an important political message that we must send. Many countries pay more for debt than the money allocated to their health care systems. We believe that this is unacceptable and that we must make a political gesture. We must be a driving force in this matter and ensure that there is no new conditionality and that this is indeed a moratorium on debt as such, but also on interest. I stop there and apologise for going a little past the two minutes. Thank you, Madam President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Madam President, you said it yourself in your reply: this virus has no boundaries. Minister, if you quote the World Health Organisation's prognosis here, in particular possibly 10 million infections in Africa, then we know that we must not lose sight of our international solidarity. You have said many interesting things, including the increasing flexibility in our development cooperation to focus more on health care in partner countries where possible. It is good that you continue to analyse where this can be done even more. We are already focusing on health care in 9 of the 14 partner countries. Our demand is not only to refocus on health care, but also, above all, to keep the socio-economic aspect in mind when determining where the funds are being spent, for reconstruction and reconstruction in a number of countries that have been severely affected. That is with the greatest possible involvement of the Belgian actors, including the non-governmental ones. You mentioned an additional EUR 22 million, but can you say a little more about its distribution? You said it was 5 million for the SERF and 5 million for the International Red Cross. The UN is asking for an additional 2 billion for their Global Humanitarian Response Plan, as you know. Perhaps we should then consider the relationship between the Belgian contribution. If I understand correctly, we're talking about $5 million in that fund. Then I will come to the blamings, Minister. We are asking for a bilateral suspension as a first step. Did I hear you correctly say that Belgium is joining countries that are effectively moving to such bilateral debt suspension until March next year? Can you tell me how many bilateral debts there are with the 77 IDA countries vis-à-vis Belgium? Can you give me the global figure? I know it's gone down a lot over the past few years. Nevertheless, it would be good to know the order of magnitude. Mrs de Laveleye has just said that our group is in favour of considering the extent to which we can clear debts. With a number of countries, we can thus start with a clean slate, so that these countries can devote the scarce public resources they often have to increased prosperity and welfare for their own people. Madam President, those were the elements of my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u7	Since Mr Boukili is not present, we are in a position to fill in that time. I give the floor to Mr Ben Accour for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u8	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and systematic responses. To be brief, I will articulate my replica in two parts. First of all, with regard to the financing of cooperation, my group shares the sector's concerns. That is why I would like to draw everyone's attention to the need not to sacrifice the future to the urgency. Of course, it is necessary to finance it - and I welcome the very rapid mobilization of resources to that end - but this should not be done at the expense of development budgets. Projects are under way and must be pursued in terms of food security, sexual and reproductive rights and social protection. This last aspect is particularly important, given the context in which we live. Like what is happening in our countries, where public services continue to operate, despite the financial needs arising from the crisis, it is important that projects programmed in the South continue to be financed, in order to help these States respond to the health emergency. Secondly, President Macron had raised great hopes by delivering large statements on the massive cancellation of debts. Almost the next day, however, these hopes were disappointed in the light of the agreement that was presented. As a reminder, 13 per cent of the income of the southern states is swallowed up by debt repayment. This obviously affects the development of a health policy and even maintains the vulnerability of these countries, particularly in the context of a health crisis. The agreement excludes many affected countries and covers less than 10 per cent of government debt. The sums due in 2020 will remain so in 2021 - and will even be increased by interest. It's really problematic. We Socialists, of course, agree with the CNUSED's call for a very strong political gesture and the cancellation of at least $1 trillion in debts. As you pointed out, the geopolitical issue is major, since China "profits" from the situation to position itself in Africa. I believe that we should not underestimate this geopolitical issue. We must assert our historical strengths and ties with these countries, by enhancing the assistance we can provide them. I believe that the political signal of massive debt cancellation is timely. Now's the time to do it. It will also be a way to emphasize that the world will indeed change after this crisis of the coronavirus. There will have been one before and one after, including for the countries of the South.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u9	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your extremely comprehensive briefing. I note that (...), with 10 million people who are potentially contaminated on the African continent. I hear your proactivity on humanitarian aid through flexible funds: an additional 22 million, bringing Belgium's contribution to EUR 192 million in 2020. That would be a record, as you said, minister. Will there be an opportunity to make an additional effort in this context? As far as structural aid is concerned, it is obvious, as my colleagues say, that this humanitarian aid should not be a substitute for structural aid. Structural aid to developing countries is fundamental. In the end, Africa has very few trained personnel, particularly to deal with the crisis. In any case, you should try to increase our share of gross national income to development aid. We know that it is around 0.4 per cent, while, according to our country's international promises, it is expected to reach 0.7 per cent of GNI. I urge you to do so, since the crisis in VOCID-19 is unfortunately in addition to the migration crisis and, more generally, the extreme poverty on the African continent in particular, which I believe is a time bomb for the European continent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u10	Minister, I have just one question for you. You said that a debt cancellation cannot be done simply because of the shareholders of the institutions to which developing countries are in debt. But this is not about the shareholders. This is about the health of a few billion people. This is about preventing half a billion more people from being pushed into poverty, as Oxfam showed. We are strongly in favour of the debt cancellation of low-income countries. Such a waiver could release EUR 25.5 billion in developing countries. That is more than one can achieve with development aid. Not only are we in favour of this; you will hear the same message from more than 200 NGOs in Belgium, UNCTAD, the international community of civil society. The crisis is an opportunity for developing countries to finally develop a strong public health system. Of course, they need a lot of money for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive and concrete answers. I have a few brief comments to make. I understand that the EUR 22 million is allocated to resources reoriented as a result of underutilisation rather than additional measures, which I understand very well, given the very short term. Have you raised the question in the government whether you will receive additional funds from the EUR 1 billion pot that was released over the departments at the beginning of the Belgian crisis? In the context of the reorientation of underutilised appropriations, which I am strongly in favour of, Enabel is examining which projects are useful and necessary. I suppose the focus is on health and economics, as with us. Is it possible to give Parliament an interim state of affairs? It seems to me very useful to us to know what is happening with the reorientation, because much is happening in a short time. You mentioned 9 of the 14 partner countries. Why are you limited to 9 partner countries? Is it intended to extend the scheme to the 14 partner countries? In view of the fact that so many people do not enjoy social protection, it would be a good idea for Belgium to take the lead in achieving the objective of allowing the other half of the world to benefit from social protection after one half of the world has been enjoying it for 75 years. It seems to me to be a good starting point to refocus resources in this direction. Finally, the WTO often reiterates in all fora that it has an advisory role and gives the point to Mr O'Donnell in line with my question on the WTO to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is not possible for it to issue guidelines at an early stage of a pandemic in order to prevent a global crisis. This year we have indeed to observe that there were very few directives. The Member States are now being asked to review the role. Now, do you think it would be useful for the WTO to play a greater role in global crises than just an advisory role? I will also put that question in writing, given its importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I do not think I have yet received an answer on a number of issues. Firstly, do you consider it necessary, in connection with the delay in payment of debts, to allow even more private creditors in particular? I also asked a question about civil society. From a press release we learn that Brotherly Delen has collected much less in the annual campaign. Are there projections of the potential impact of COVID-19 on the Belgian NGOs' own resources for their traditional projects? Does this have any impact on the funding of civil society projects by Belgian Development Cooperation? Have there been any contacts between you and civil society about any compensation for those lower revenues? With regard to your other answers, I would like to draw attention to the indirect consequences of COOVID-19, in particular that 1.5 billion children are at risk of falling without education. In the past we have worked very hard on education, and we still need to pay particular attention to that. Schools are closing and teachers may not be paid. Children, who should be given our particular attention, are lagging behind in learning. I think we should do smaller targeted interventions by helping the children on the ground. We must therefore reduce the risk of girls leaving school permanently. The same applies to the impact on the economic field. We should be able to support many small businesses and SMEs in Africa and other areas that are just seeing life or where things are getting better in a small, targeted way. Thus, our support goes not only to the public sector, because private aid also ensures minimal job losses and a minimum of economic decline.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u13	Mr Minister, I asked a question a while ago, but you answered it because it concerned the organisation of Belgian technical cooperation and therefore the establishment of Enabel from 2018. At the time, I wanted to know how things were going. I have heard in your multiple responses that the tool is being transformed to take into account the current situation. If there are elements other than those communicated here, I will refer to the written response so as not to waste any time on anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u14	Minister, a UN report published yesterday has just told us that the VOCID-19 pandemic could worsen the fate of the already food-insecure population this year. We are talking about 265 million people who would be affected, an increase of 130 million compared to 2019. Mr Minister, what opportunities do we have to respond to this food insecurity problem, which is in addition to the others, since it was no longer really a priority for Belgium? What initiatives can we take in a multilateral framework – so with the UN – to help these people in total food insecurity? What bilateral measures can we also take, even if we reorient our budget in terms of development cooperation? Finally, I would like to point out that we have a working group on food safety, whose constitution is to be voted on in this committee very soon. There is an urgent need to put this item on the agenda in order to act effectively in helping those people of the world who are going to suffer terribly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u15	Mr Minister, may I begin by congratulating you on your commitment to One World: Together at Home, the WHO concert and the Global Citizen platform, to which you have expressed your support? In your video message, you clearly expressed your support for the CEPI, the international alliance of public and private partners who want to accelerate the development of a vaccine. It is very nice that you expressed that support. A lot of Belgian expertise can help develop the vaccine together. It is therefore very nice that you have given your support.I just heard you speak in your replies about the increasing flexibility of the corona crisis in our development aid. We were going to focus on health care. That's actually what my question is about. Can you say a little more about the traditional, unfortunately most vulnerable people in every crisis situation, whether they are famine, medical crisis or war? It is always the women, girls and children who are most vulnerable during a crisis. We know that you always love projects in this sense. Are there programmed projects that are at risk of being compromised? Are there any specific additional programmes that we will support? You've always been very committed to it. Will we now be working very closely on this issue, so that we can help them in this way too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u16	Colleagues, thank you for your discipline. You stayed perfect within the time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a background for Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Liekens, let us hope that we will soon have a little more freedom of movement. It's always interesting to have a look inside the living room with others. Thank you for your comments, and I'm going through them chronologically. Mrs Van Hoof, healthcare was one of the key themes of our country. We have made a great deal of efforts to develop health systems, to move from acute healthcare to more structural care. The danger we're walking now is similar to what we saw at Ebola. All attention then goes to a phenomenon of the moment, which can have very negative consequences. We have sometimes seen in the Ebola period that classical health care was completely sucked out because many resources went to the phenomenon. We must now ensure that we are able to combat such effects. Social protection will be included in the strategic reflection document on the impact of COOVID-19 on Belgian Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid. That note is now being drawn up. The subject of social protection will be taken into account. Mrs de Laveleye, as far as the strategy note is concerned, since it is a fairly fundamental analysis, it will not be available in the coming weeks. All the signs are encouraging this deep analysis because the VOCID-19 will still be present for a long time and will have a very important impact, especially for our partner countries. I come to the debts you mentioned. Others have also talked about debt issues. A moratorium has been decided upon, including for the Bretton Woods institutions such as the World Bank and the IMF. When I say that a discharge of debt must be discussed with the shareholders, it is because Belgium cannot unilaterally decide on behalf of all the other countries that are part of the Bretton Woods institutions. I understand the point that it is about health and I absolutely agree with it. If everyone has the same opinion as us, then we could move quickly, but unfortunately it is not that simple. There was a question of how much outstanding debt we still have at bilateral level. Bilaterally, it is about 282 million euros in total. This may seem a lot, but actually this is relatively limited. Questions were asked about the additional 22 million for humanitarian assistance. You say that corresponds to 1% of the total development budget. I would rather compare to the humanitarian volume, which is 192 million euros, the highest one ever had. Will we add more at any point in time? I think it is likely that this will happen, but I think we have left here for a very long effort. This is what could be done within the current resources. Mr Crombez, you asked whether the question of additional resources for development cooperation was raised when the EUR 1 billion was released. That has not yet been done, because we want to have a proper analysis of the specific needs first. To do so, we need to look at the programmes that we already have: how can we reorient them and what resources are needed? But you have heard me say that the question has not yet been asked. Mr De Vriendt, you point out the great socio-economic effects. In my view, that will be long-term. We must assume that there will at least be a slowdown in growth worldwide. We know that this will affect the least developed countries excessively. The EUR 22 million referred to fit the whole of the broader fund that was discussed. In addition, EUR 5 million were already allocated to the CERF and EUR 5 million to the ICRC. You also had a question about debt suspension. Let me be very clear: our country was one of the driving forces. Mr Ben Achour, I think it was a strong political signal, or the intention was to send a strong political signal, in relation to debts. But we know that the debt problem has grown in previous years: much of the debt has become private debt or the debt of countries that were not part of the Paris club. Of course, then, we have less influence. I have clearly called for private debt to follow the same logic as our moratorium logic. However, I have no leverage over private creditors. Mr De Maegd, we have already spoken a lot in plenary, in particular, about the WHO and how it should continue its activities at a time of crisis, while being clear about the need for analysis and transparency in relation to its functioning. There are questions about how WHO manages crises. However, I think it is inherent in such an organisation, which must manage crises that are often unexpected and situations that countries have not yet faced. It is normal for criticism to be made of the things that are being done. The question came from you, Mr Crombez. Overall, the WHO does not only provide advice, it also provides technical support, it sometimes sends people on the ground into rapid response teams. In the case of a pandemic, the WTO has, in a first phase, only an advisory role. Does that role need to be extended? That is a question to be asked. If we want the WTO to play a different role, more on the ground, we must, of course, also mobilise resources for this. You also asked why only 9 of the 14 partner countries are working on health care today. This is done on the basis of the current programmes we have. In some countries we are not active in health care. So we can't suddenly do that quickly. This requires a structure. But we do have the ambition to include health care in the creation of new cooperation agreements. This must be done by mutual agreement. Our partner countries must have the will to cooperate in this area. Mrs Depoorter, I have just spoken about postponing the payment of debts for private creditors. You asked a question about civil society, the NGOs and the impact of COOVID-19 on their own resources. We haven't done that analysis yet, but I'm assuming that that impact will indeed be there. I do know that my administration is in contact with the civil society partners we work with. You also point out that education is an important element in the cooperation we have with most countries, and that, at a time of a health crisis, education is also indirectly under very heavy pressure. Mr Lacroix, you say that food security is not a priority. I have to challenge that. Food security is part of our agriculture and food security strategy. Food security is not seen in a silo, as was the case before, but in a more comprehensive approach. However, when we want to develop agricultural activities, agriculture is obviously about responding to food security. Mrs Liekens, it is indeed important that our country remains an active partner of CEPI. We have been a partner since 2017. Peter Piot was one of the driving forces behind it. We have a great deal of expertise in this area in our country, in public institutions such as the ITM, but also in the private sector, for example Paul Stoffels, who plays a very important role in this. It seems to me that we are investing money in CEPI today is the logic itself. The only way to beat the virus is to find a vaccine. Using resources to find a vaccine that would be used in our country but also in the rest of the world is the practice of CEPI. The aim is to be able to roll out the vaccine very quickly worldwide. In today's world, that is in the interests of everyone, but also in our own selfish interests. As long as the virus remains somewhere in the world, there is a danger to each of us. You also asked a question about the most vulnerable people. In crisis situations, it is often women and girls. Yesterday I supported an initiative by South Africa, Sweden and many other European countries to ensure that special attention was paid to women and girls in the fight against the effects of COVID-19. This is fully in line with the development cooperation policy we have pursued in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your answers to our questions. In other committees the answer to questions is more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u19	Minister, I would like to ask you whether the Social Protection Note can also be delivered to Parliament, if that note already has an official status, so that we can understand the basis for the later note.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u20	Minister, the strategic note VOCID-19 will obviously take time. We hope that it will be carried out with the various stakeholders. As a Parliament, we hope to be able to react to it before it is definitively validated by the government. Thank you for the transparency of the amount. It has been a long time since we received the bilateral debt figures of $288 million. As you say, this is indeed quite limited. We know that we are slowly coming to the end. But if it's limited enough, I want to say that's one more reason to cancel it. This will be an excellent message to be given to other creditors, to new countries of importance. I hear that we cannot decide, in the World Bank and the IMF, for everyone, to cancel the debts, but we are an important player in that, so I hope that our representatives will make the lobby necessary for this to happen. With regard to the 22 million, I mean that you say that in relation to humanitarian aid, it is important. I insist. Our share of GNI in official development assistance is declining in Belgium and we are counting heavily on you to make it happen again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive and concrete answers. In fact, I think it is a good way to start with a global response from the Minister, after which we can go into specific points. I'd like to test two more cases with you. Firstly, EUR 22 million of additional funding has been provided, of which EUR 5 million will go to the CERF and EUR 5 million to the International Red Cross. The remaining EUR 12 million would go to the UN's global plan. I take it this is about the Global Humanitarian Response Plan? A total of EUR 2 billion was requested for this purpose. Is that what that 12 million euros is going to do? Secondly, there is the bilateral suspension of debts to which our country will also participate. Do I understand correctly that this runs until March next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers and also for your support for the idea of starting with a global answer to the questions. I have two brief comments. The WTO itself asks international fora to go beyond this advisory function and to be able to issue general directives in the event of major tragedies. I am referring to this because I think that Belgium should start thinking about it early enough. Secondly, you said that health projects are supported in 9 of the 14 partner countries. I understand you very well when you say that we have focused on the countries in which we already had health care projects. Enabel is looking at what can be done with respect to programs and restarts. In this sense, it seems interesting to me to know whether there are opportunities for these 5 other partner countries to launch accelerated health care projects there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u23	Madam President, Minister, as far as civil society is concerned, I assume that I will receive a written reply with your analyses. That's fine. As far as the strategic reflex document is concerned, you yourself said that this is something that will remain with us for a long period of time, as long as there is no vaccine. I call for a very broad approach and a comprehensive approach, especially with regard to vulnerable groups and smaller projects, so that we can play our role there. Finally, I should like to warn against one thing in the debate on the cancellation of debts or the retention of the postponement of payments. We now see that certain developing countries are making new debts, for example with China. We must ensure that one thing does not lead to disharmony. I would like to see a global approach, but particular attention should also be paid to how this crisis is now being endured and how the possible solutions offered to these partner countries are sustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u24	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, the EUR 22 million goes, in its globality, to the UN fund that was discussed. Today, EUR 10 million was allocated to CERF and ICRC. The remaining EUR 12 million have not yet been allocated but have already been allocated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u25	Madam President, I have already asked twice a very punctual question about the suspension of bilateral debt. Will it run until March 2021, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u26	Indeed, the moratorium will last until March next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic157x.u27	Thank you, Minister. It's exactly 3:45 p.m., so we're a very disciplined committee. It was very interesting. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your constructive cooperation.
