ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u1	Minister, I come back to the Royal Mortgage Order, made in consultation with Febelfin, which allows workers, self-employed persons or all those affected by a loss of income due to the crisis of the VOCID-19 to be able to suspend the repayment of their mortgage credit. Here it is (...) with an extension of the measure until 31 December 2020 (...) Banks have the right to accept the deferral or not. This is one of the major weaknesses of this decree. Minister, can you provide an update on the rejected files and the main reasons for these refusals. What remedies are available to consumers in this case? In this context, we also voted for an amendment to request a monthly report. The amendment stated: "Credit institutions shall immediately transmit to the SPF Economy any applications for credit which are refused by the institution. Applications and their evaluation will be the subject of a monthly report that will begin no later than April 15, 2020. This report will be forwarded to the House." Minister, do you have any information on this? Finally, the documents required to prove the loss of income are not always readily available. In this regard, you undertook to ask for flexibility from the banks, including a possible declaration of honour. On the Febelfin website, we can read that the declaration on honour is a possibility. Have you had any feedback on this process? Do banks really accept these statements about honour to move a case forward? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u2	Minister, I have the same question with regard to reporting as with the "bank deal." We have already seen representatives of Febelfin and we already know how many applications were made to postpone payment for mortgage loans. But can you also explain the reason for refusing the postponement and have complaints been lodged with the various authorities, as mentioned by Febelfin? Delaying payment until 1 January 2021 is certainly a good thing. However, we must monitor what is actually happening on the ground, as in the case of business lending. As far as business lending is concerned, we will discuss this later this week, following new proposals that you have put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u3	The moratorium covers two branches: there are loans to companies and there are loans to private individuals for mortgages. Since this Royal Decree, which I have prepared together with Minister Muylle, stipulates that no interest will be charged within a period of time, this is only about mortgage loans. Indeed, this deferral was only provided, under certain conditions, for persons engaged in mortgage credit, with the possibility of not seeing interest increase. This possibility did not exist for companies. We are only talking about mortgage loans, as this royal decision is about this. According to the latest figures available, 130,000 to 140,000 mortgage loans have been granted. What part of it has not received an increase in interest? I don't have those numbers right now, but I'll get them and get them to you. I come to the question of the refusal rate. In fact, this is about the moratorium. The rules are therefore quite simple. If you enter the conditions, you are entitled to a deferral of payment. If this is not the case, you are not entitled to this moratorium. We talked a lot about the monitoring system. Instead, this system applies to bank guarantees for which a mechanism has been set up in consultation with the National Bank. The Commission also presented, last week or the previous week, the first figures and the volume of appropriations, etc. In this system, no monitoring system of refusals was set up, because there is actually no discussion about refusals. In the case of company loans, however, there is a discussion about refusals because banks have to consider whether there is an economic model that can or cannot justify financing. In my view, there is no grounds for refusing mortgage loans other than those agreed with the banking sector in the charter. With regard to the degree of flexibility with regard to documentation, Mrs Thémont, you pointed out that in committee I had indicated that it was possible to make a request simply on honour and then to provide the documents of economic unemployment, if they were not yet available. The banks worked that way. I have no return to any problems in this regard, provided that the actual documents are presented at a later stage. The reason why we here are the Royal Decree No. 38 is that we want to extend until the end of 2020 the possibility of a delay in payment without the payment of interest, which was fixed until 31 October 2020. The reason why we want to extend this measure until the end of 2020 is that we have now updated the banking agreement with Febelfin. There is an amendment to the rules governing the guarantee scheme, but also an extension of the moratorium. We are making it possible for mortgage loans and business credits to run until the end of 2020 and not limit it until the end of October 2020. The moratorium on mortgage loans was valid for six months. For most people, this means that it can run until the end of September 2020. However, if the maturity of the loan falls on the first of the month, a number of people fell off the boat. So it was extended until 31 October 2020. In this royal decision, we are therefore making the measure possible until the end of 2020, which I believe is necessary. Most people are working again, but there are still groups of people who remain in economic unemployment, for example those working in the event sector. The possibility for them to have a moratorium of 9 months instead of 6 months is a good thing. The figures show that the moratorium has worked very well. We put it through a charter. I know that there was some discussion in committee about whether it was sufficient to implement the measure with a charter or whether it should be incorporated into a legislative basis. At that time, I said that a charter, concluded with the sector, would be sufficient. Moreover, if we see that 140,000 mortgage loans have been effectively deferred, it shows that the method of chartering is working. I would also like to thank the sector for its very constructive attitude in the discussions over the last few weeks to extend the initial charter until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u4	Minister, thank you for your very clear explanations. I look forward to you being able to provide me with the figures in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u5	Colleagues, I believe that we can decide. If, after the expiry of the powers of attorney, certain measures still have to be renewed, this will have to be done in another way, with another legislative initiative. I hope the relay goes so fast, Minister, that an extension is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u6	Madam Minister, the N-VA certainly agrees with the RB on the advance for general hospitals, but in view of the comments made by the Council of State, I still have a number of questions on which I would like more clarity. Firstly, the Council of State reiterates that the condition not to consider the advance as State aid is not met, all the more so because the revenue that might be too much could be deducted over several years, so that the advance could be seen as an interest-free loan. State aid must be notified to the European Commission. Has that happened in the meantime and has there been any feedback? Secondly, the Council of State is asking for urgent clarification of the exact costs to be covered by the advance payment scheme and how the calculation will be done. We also note on the ground that hospitals are waiting for this and that this creates great uncertainty. What is the state of play? Is there any initial version of this and, if so, can you deliver it to the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, this is a new advance for hospitals after that of a billion already liquidated, allocated this time in two tranches. At this point, we might ask ourselves what is the view of the specific situation of each hospital. Minister, do you now have a clear view of the situation of each hospital in terms of the additional costs of the crisis and the loss of revenue? As you have pointed out, advances will be subject to adjustments under the BMF. In that regard, I would like to know what progress has been made in the work on the objectivation of costs and loss of revenue. It is known that the bulk of hospital costs are staff costs, which are fixed costs. But it is also known that the decline in activities leads to a reduction in variable costs. I'm thinking about medical costs, implants, catering, etc. Will these also be taken into account in your vision of the application of these two 500 million euros? The press reported a loss of 5 to 6 billion euros for all Belgian hospitals. Have you been able to study these figures? Are these figures confirmed? As we had expressed in the discussions on the first advance, such a system must be formalized as soon as possible, because for hospitals, the uncertainty that prevails today on this subject is significantly greater than on the adjustment of the budget of the financial means between two ordinary years. There is an urgent need to decide and formalize the question of the allocation of those resources. For us, the essential thing is of course to guarantee the financial impact of the health crisis and to ensure that it is very quickly amortised for each hospital individually, on the basis of objective data included in the 2020 annual accounts so that, quickly, there is structural and, above all, multiannual refinancing, because a long-term vision is needed. Minister, do you have any prospects in this regard? What is your vision for the future in terms of hospital funding? This crisis has stifled the implementation of the major reforms under way. What is your vision in terms of budget for hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u8	Mr President, I agree with the remarks made by previous colleagues. Madam Minister, I cannot get the impression that you could have estimated the points of criticism in advance, all the more so since the criticism expressed by the Council of State is similar to the criticism made by Royal Decree No. 10. The Council of State reiterates the urgent need to clarify precisely what costs will be covered by the advance payment scheme and how these advances will be settled. I quote the Council of State: 'The uncertainty of general and psychiatric hospitals about the use of advances and their settlement remains as long as no regulation is adopted on the budget of financial resources for the implementation of the option provided for in Article 101 of the Hospital Act and as long as no specific and precise clearing rules are established'. On page 2 of the report to the King, it is reported that work is under way to establish clear and precise rules on the basis of which the additional costs of the crisis will be finally covered. However, the Council of State had already made the same comments in its opinion on Royal Decree No. 10, which in the meantime is almost three months ago. So, Minister, I have the same question as the previous colleagues. Do you have any idea when the clearing rules will finally be worked out to remove that uncertainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u9	Madam Minister, my first question concerns monitoring. The report to the King says that a monitoring of the financial situation of hospitals is being started. It seemed very important to us that this should not only apply to the corona crisis, but be embedded in a more structural way. During the corona crisis, one in three hospitals entered the red numbers. This was demonstrated by a study conducted by Belfius. How do you see this monitoring? Who's getting involved? What data will be included? Will this be held in the future? We think it is important to follow up on this sensitive issue, the funding of hospitals with all the aspects involved. My second question concerns the two advances of EUR 500 million. That is a very good thing. Why is this amount divided into two different advances, which also have a time limit? Now that a lot of people are travelling, a new peak is possible. This KB states that we must wait until October for the second disc of EUR 500 million. For example, this KB is not a lever to use that second disk faster. Why are these disks effectively so split up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u10	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that a new disk, divided into two, is being released for hospitals, so that the liquidity and continuity of our hospitals are ensured. That is also necessary. It is also a good thing that the psychiatric hospitals are now being included; I must stress this. I have two questions, which are in line with the questions put by my fellow Members. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to the questioning of hospitals about the "real" corona costs? How do they deal with that? On the ground to the hospitals themselves, there is uncertainty about the amount of the advance and about the subsequent set-off. The hospitals have to distribute their resources among the different actors. Is that already a bit more visible? Secondly, there are already exercises in progress with a view to setting up the budget of hospital funds for the following years. The budget is partly calculated on the basis of past activities. What's the status? After all, this is another factor of uncertainty, which we must remove because of the sustainable viability of our hospitals. With regard to general hospital funding, I assume that whoever may be responsible in the next government will continue to work with the yard on this matter. In our opinion, that should be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with Mrs Gijbels. You're asking if it's state aid. No, it's an advance. As several Members have said, there will be a set-off of that advance. So it's not a blank cheque given to the hospitals. These advances are made in two instalments of EUR 500 million. The difference is that the psychiatric hospitals, which are rightly included in it, are thus less caught. They did not have to apply ECMO and other things. Here, too, the advance system applies. Work is under way on the principles for the final settlement and the modalities in various consultation bodies: the Federal Council for Hospital Services, the Medicomut and the administration of the RIZIV and the FOD. There is a coordination in the IMC, in a technical working group, in which the administrations of the federal government and the Länder are represented. As far as the technicality of that statement is concerned, I shall give the floor to Mr De Cock in a moment. Mrs Tillieux, you are asking me if I have a clear view of the extra cost and the decrease in revenues in each hospital. We are moving forward in this task – Mr.Jo De Cock will tell you about it. In addition, hospitals must present their figures. The emergency is here. However, in this important work, we must carry out the necessary consultations, so as to know the costs and the loss of revenue. You want a multi-year budget for hospitals, which I am in favour of, but it is not here that we have to decide. To do this, the future government will have to reach an agreement – without us knowing when and how it will take place at the moment. In any case, it would be wise to programme a multi-annual budget for hospitals, given the necessary investments. Mr Van Langenhove, I am not so surprised that the comments made by the Council of State are the same. You're exactly what you are. I didn't go to law school. That's what it's gonna be. Anyway, it's also the same proposal. Common sense says that if we send the same proposal, we may also get the same comments. That seems to be the case here. Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Tillieux had questions about the work in progress. Mr De Cock will state his position on this matter. Mrs Slegers, the monitoring of a financial situation is one thing. Financial policy is another matter. Financial policy is the responsibility of each hospital in itself. That was also the case in the law on hospital networks. Each hospital remains responsible for its own financial policy. Only cases financed from the network are an exception. There must be an agreement between all hospitals in the network. The MAHA study is a form of monitoring. For the hospitals themselves, that's no surprise. Some are good, others are in a danger zone. It's up to them to make those decisions. The questioning of hospitals is now closed, Mr Bertels. Mr De Cock will be able to say more about this. I would like to hear that the reform of hospital funding and networking will have to continue. I feel some pride, too. I had another conversation with the hospital directors today. This also shows that investment in IT and the improvement of patient care must be made at the level of the network. The necessary technology and innovation to improve care will therefore require investments at network level. Mr De Cock, please give your expert explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u12	I would like to answer the questions about the state of play. Following the royal decrees No. 10 and 35 working groups have been set up at different levels. A first element is the identification of the additional costs generated by COVID, in particular the increase in expenditure on the care of COVID patients, the special expenditure on infrastructure adjustments and the special efforts in terms of staff. A second element is the stability of hospital funding. One examines what income they lack when there is no medical activity, because, as you know, more than half of the fees are the subject of retrocessions. The hospitals will be on dry seed. It is necessary to consider what guarantees can be given to ensure maximum stability. It should be stressed that, of course, 100 % of BFM's personnel costs remain guaranteed, just like 100 percent of the variable part of that budget of financial resources. That's about an important sum. A third element concerns the health care providers themselves, in particular the additional efforts made by doctors and other self-employed healthcare providers during the COVID period. Two working groups have been set up to deal with these three elements. The first is the Federal Hospital Services Council which issued an opinion that was validated on 15 June. You will find that advice on the website of the FPS Public Health. That opinion calls for costs not included in the budget of financial resources to be covered, the so-called additional costs. It is recommended to provide for a number of lump sums, in particular a flat-rate triage rush per passage, a flat-rate hospitalization per COVID-day and one-off start-ups. The Minister's policy cell has already provided answers in this respect. The revenues of the RIZIV agreements relating to staff and operational framework are also guaranteed, i.e. for the daily hospital flat-rate payments, 100 % of the flat-rate payments for forfaitarised medicines and 100 % of the part of the fees financed by the RIZIV and sent to hospitals. In these areas, there is, of course, continuity of financing. Most of the Federal Hospital Services Council's recommendations will be welcomed. There are, of course, a number of specific aspects that need to be considered. This has to do with the allowance for non-insurers or for those who are not covered by health insurance, for example foreigners or people who are not covered by health insurance because they are covered by another scheme or because of international activities. A second element relates to supplementary fees. Of course, it is not intended that health insurance compensates for the supplementary fees for activities that have not been carried out. A third element relates to activities which as such are not the subject of health insurance financing or compensation. A large part will be able to be financed through advances in the treasury. The opinion on hospital funding is on the table. A monitoring has been carried out to find out what the additional costs are in the different hospitals. That is not regularization, it is estimates and estimates. A time frame has been developed in which hospital funding as such will be regularised per semester, a first regularisation in the course of 2020 and a second regularisation in early 2021. Final regularisation will take place in 2022 or 2023 when the accounts are closed, but these will be limited corrections. Last Friday, the Joint Working Group on Hospitals ended its work on the proportion of fees paid to healthcare professionals. It has been reported that the sum of the deductions calculated on the year 2019, indexed, will be transferred globally to the hospitals. Those are the fees. That guarantee is important. We have tried to list out the special and extra activities provided by doctors and other healthcare professionals. These include additional permanentities at the Emergency Service and the Intensive Care Service; permanentities of doctors responsible for the ordinary hospitalization departments; the important activity of medical coordination and support of emergency plans; hospital hygiene activities; compensation which could be provided by the medical councils of the hospitals to the assistants in training as regards their extra activities provided; and the training costs given by both doctors and other healthcare providers as well as to the staff and training they have received. Work in this area is also beginning to be completed, but this needs to be implemented in the framework of the regularisation decisions. The principles I have just set out and the posts I have just mentioned will be included in the regularisation KB. That KB is currently in preparation. It is premature to put a deadline of publication on that. This draft royal decree is finalised in order to be transferred to the policy cell. That's not gonna happen this week, but probably next week. In this respect, the administrative and budgetary assessment and control procedures and the opinion of the Council of State can be followed. Opinions as such have been sought. They are the subject of the joint working groups and of the opinion of the Federal Council for Hospital Services. Those steps have been taken. That can still be formally presented, but there is no waste of time in that regard. This should be clarified by September. Mrs Slegers, you had a question about the monitoring. At present, we do not have sufficient data on the expenditure and invoicing of hospitals. There's always a two-month delay. We are now at the beginning of July. So it's still premature to look at that. We are going to look at that semester by semester, so that the global guarantees will apply for a bit during that period. If you have listened carefully, you will have noticed that there are still blind spots that need to be solved. Of course, it is not so easy to make compensations or regularisations for items that are not covered by expenditure and that are merely additional expenditure. We have also informed ourselves and looked at the impact for the hospitals with a high ranking of OCMW beneficiaries and the like. However, these exercises are still ongoing. In summary, the basic opinions have been issued. They indicate the direction. The policy cell has already given players a series of guarantees on the ground. We will continue to prepare the texts. When it comes to regularization, of course, we must look at the exact results achieved in this area and what the contribution is for each hospital. Finally, I have heard a figure of 6 billion. That's a figure that could be read in the press. It is an extrapolation of a number of people from hospitals who have extrapolated their own situation to all other hospitals. We cannot validate this figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u13	The same applies to all other figures. Every time I hear an amount falling, a billion has been added.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u14	We are in happy expectation of the regularization KB for the first part. The two discs have to be paid as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u15	The first 500 million will be paid at the end of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u16	Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u17	Madam Minister, we certainly support the idea of a compensation fund. It is also very logical to extend the measure until the end of August 2020, i.e. until the end of the summer holidays. However, we do have questions about its broad scope. I have the same comment on the subject that I had in the initial royal decree. We ask ourselves, among other things, whether the job students should belong to the target area. The scheme was also limited to association workers in the care and care sector. The measure is now being extended. We do not understand why the restriction on association workers in the care and care sector is being lifted. This means that volunteers working outside the care sector will also receive a higher compensation in the event of death. On the other hand, the protection of an occupational disease applies only to those employed in the care sector and in certain essential sectors. This has the strange effect that the survivors of a volunteer working for a non-profit association would receive higher compensation in the event of death than the survivors of an employee of the same non-profit organisation. I therefore wonder why such a broad definition of the target group of volunteers was chosen and also whether it would not make volunteers illogically favoured over employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u18	Mrs Gijbels, as regards your comment on students, I say the same as I did last time: their work is very valuable, but it remains important to give them sufficient social protection. Commercial sectors which had to continue their activities, such as the food sector, have managed to find sufficient staff. My associate will answer your second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u19	For the workers in the key sectors, we have issued an RB which we will come to propose next week, which will create a new code for occupational diseases, in particular for corona for people employed in key sectors and essential services. This will provide coverage from 11 March to 18 May. [[For the period after May 18th...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u21	No, the performance of that has been postponed for a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u22	Is that with Minister Muylle?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u23	This is Secretary Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u24	The Minister for the Budget must be present in another committee at the moment, and that is why it has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u25	For cases after 18 May, an application may be made in the normal system, the open system of occupational diseases. We do not think there is discrimination. In the case of the Fund, limited cover is provided for in the event of death, while in the case of normal protection for occupational diseases it is also concerned with incapacity for work. A wider coverage is provided for this purpose. It is also about something that is outside global management. It is a temporary scheme independent of the normal system of occupational diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u26	Are there any questions or concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u27	Minister, this question of the database is a lot of ink. In the meantime, a cooperation agreement has been reached which everyone can rejoice at. There are still concerns that extremely sensitive data may be used in tracing and without the consent of the data subjects. The shelf life of this data also raises questions. I would like to know what the views you are seeking are. There is the question of the Council of State, of course, but also the question of the Data Protection Authority. Are you going to ask for these opinions simultaneously or successively? Indeed, it is generally known that the Council of State considers that formalities such as the opinion of the Data Protection Authority must be attached when requesting its opinion. Have you already determined how to proceed? What is your method? Finally, regarding the application, what procedures will be followed to select the claimant who will have to deploy the application? Who will be responsible for this choice? Will there be a test phase? More broadly, what budget can this represent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u28	Madam Minister, I have already raised the issue of the role of the Information Security Committee in previous meetings. I believe that this role in this Royal Decree is much more clearly defined and is also more in line with the General Data Protection Regulation. I suppose we are still waiting for the advice of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority on this matter. When can we expect these opinions? Furthermore, I have not yet received a reasonable explanation as to why the data stored for scientific purposes cannot be obtained in anonymised form and why they should therefore be retained in a pseudonymized form. The only explanation I received for this was that this has always been done since 2014 for the database of Sciensano. In my opinion, this is contrary to the Flemish database on infectious diseases, in which the data for scientific purposes are kept in an anonymised manner. I wonder why these data cannot be anonymized and what data are necessarily needed for scientific research would no longer be available if they were anonymized. I also have a detailed comment on the CT scans. The data from the CT scans are stored in the database, but only for the hospitalized patients. Shouldn't there also be room for the data of CT scans of the non-hospitalized patients? After all, especially when there was a shortage of test material, they resorted more often and more quickly to CT scans, because in this way they were able to diagnose faster than with the usual test method. As regards the contact search app, according to this Royal Decree, a monopoly has been installed for the benefit of DP3T technology. A database is therefore set up with random identification keys, which will be used in case of infection. At the same time, the cooperation agreement recognises that other digital applications are possible, regardless of the actual app, which can be used to register contacts. I wonder whether it can be guaranteed that the developers of the other applications will also be able to get the cooperation of Sciensano, for example when there is a demand for data exchange. Finally, last week we learned that the software of the contact investigation system could only record 10 contacts per person. That is incomprehensible, as it was to be expected that the bubbles would be expanded at some point. In the meantime, has the software been modified and can it effectively store more contacts per person than before?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u29	Madam Minister, I would like to endorse Mr Gijbels' very pertinent comments and questions, but I would also like to stress a comment from the Council of State, which was made in the draft law establishing a database at Sciensano in the context of the fight against the spread of the COVID virus. The Council of State then stated that the detection of COVID-19 contamination is the responsibility of the communities. That competence shall include the establishment of a system for the protection of natural persons in the processing of personal data that would be collected as a result of that search. Therefore, insofar as legislation is provided for for the processing of such personal data, the jurisdiction of the communities in the field of preventive health care shall be entered. In addition, the rules on the procurement and operation of the contact centre responsible for detecting these infections also fall within the competence of the communities with regard to preventive health care. However, the processing of the personal data in the database is also carried out within the framework of the federal competence for scientific research. The conclusion is therefore that the above-mentioned legislative proposal concerns both federal and regional powers and therefore cannot, by definition, pursue an efficient policy. In order to meet the legal reality, the legislative proposal could only be implemented if it was transformed into a cooperation agreement requiring parliamentary assent. The Consultation Committee took the decision to conclude a cooperation agreement and the Interministerial Conference on Public Health drew up a draft cooperation agreement which was subsequently approved by the Consultation Committee. The draft adopted will be submitted to the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority for their opinion. For the sake of continuity of contacts and in function of avoiding a legal vacuum, the purpose of this Royal Decree is therefore to provide for a temporary regulation, the content of which is almost identical to the draft on which advice is still to be sought. What has just been set out shows once again that the state structure and jurisdictional rules in this country have a crippling effect on decision-making. The powers of both the communities and the federal level in this area should make use of artificial structures such as the Consultative Committee and the Inter-Ministerial Conferences in order to reach a solution at all. Not only does this waste a great deal of time, but it also declares the regulation applicable, without prior scrutiny by the Data Protection Authority or a legal check by the Council of State, with any legal consequences that may arise. It is therefore urgent to ensure that uniform sets of powers are transferred to the Länder. It will in any case benefit the operation and the legal reality. I therefore hope that we will learn lessons from this crisis and the problems of competence that arise from it, so that we are ready to tackle the upcoming pandemics, which may be even more violent, in an efficient and timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u30	Mr President, I did not know that we were going to enter into constitutional considerations on the structure of our state. The lesson I learn from this is that perhaps we should think about re-establishing certain skills! We are talking about the Walloon Association for the Quality of Life, the structures of the German-speaking Community, the Flemish Region and the COCOM. There are therefore four federated institutions that must intervene as we fight against a pandemic that does not stop in the territory of Belgium, which extends to other European countries and the world, and we are being tried here to convince ourselves to limit ourselves to smaller territories. I'll close the parenthesis. Minister, thank you for moving forward on this issue and for providing an extended legal framework for the collection of data for manual tracing and a legal framework for digital tracing. At the VOCID-19 committee on 8 June, I already said that digital tracing, with all the European Commission's beacons, the open source code DP3T, the use of Bluetooth and the widest possible voluntary membership, can really be an effective tool to prevent and limit the spread of VOCID-19. I thank you for moving forward because if each federated entity acted on its side, there would sometimes even be incompatible situations. Minister, I still have a few questions about the Royal Order of Special Powers on the agenda. With regard to the social security number, we understand that people who are confirmed positive at VOCID-19 must be identified and who they have been in contact with so that they can take quarantine or testing measures. In view of concerns about privacy, could we not have imagined alternatives to achieve the same objective without using the national social security number? My second question relates to the crossing of databases and the processing of data. Why didn't you imagine a system that didn't allow you to cross-check the different data that is being collected? In the text, there is even reference to other databases such as Crossroads or Cobra. With regard to all the concern that this raises in civil society, I believe it is important that you can reassure yourself about the cross-checking of data and the possible risk of use for purposes other than the fight against VOCID-19. The third question, for scientific research, is that the data will be stored pseudonymically. I would like to insist that we try to think about anonymizing them. I know that in other European countries everything that is kept for scientific research is anonymised and not pseudonymized. We know we can still go back to the person whose data was pseudonymized. Finally, the Information Security Committee intervenes in the event of data being disclosed to third parties. Can you give us more information on the action to be taken by this Information Security Committee? Then I saw that the order provided for the addition of the data of persons who were subjected to a CT-scan. What is the need for this information collection? I know that CT-scan is practiced in a hospital setting when a patient is admitted and that it sometimes allows for faster results than with conventional tests. However, should this be included in the database? Finally, database 4 data are either updated every 10 years or deleted. For me, the interaction between these two possibilities is not very clear. What is the rationale for retaining or deleting this information? How was this 10-year period determined? It is recalled that the previous Royal Special Powers Order provided for a retention period of 30 years after the death of the person whose data had been collected. This provision has finally disappeared, and I welcome it. However, I would like to know what motivated the above-mentioned possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u31	Mr. Chair, Minister, the extension of the order to monitor contacts of infected persons is clear. There was no legal framework. It is the path of the cooperation agreement that has been chosen. We regret, of course, that such a framework could not have been established earlier, which would have been a little more democratic. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate the concerns of environmentalists on this issue. First of all, the spread of this disease should be avoided by monitoring infected persons. Avoiding the transmission of this virus and tracing, whether manually or digitally, is obvious. However, whether manual or digital, the tracking system must be irreproachable in terms of safeguarding freedoms and privacy. That is why environmentalists have tabled a very ambitious motion for a resolution. On the occasion of the examination of this proposal, parliamentary hearings were held and a vote took place. The framework that has been set is very demanding and it is, in our view, very important that it be respected. Minister, can you guarantee that the framework set out in this resolution will be respected? If so, how? On the other hand, the disadvantage of having chosen a cooperation agreement is that it severely limits the possibility of in-depth parliamentary work, of being able to discuss the process and the final text in a completely transparent way; in fact, at the end, we just have the choice to say yes or no to the text that has been discussed with the other governments. Minister, how do you see the rest of the work? Have you planned a consultation with Parliament on the discussions with the other governments and, above all, a discussion of the opinions that have been given because we are very attentive to the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, in particular on the proportionality of the data that is collected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u32	Madam Minister, much has already been said, so I will not repeat everything. I will briefly take two things from you. Mrs Gijbels already talked about some bugs in the system. We have already discussed this in previous committee meetings. Now we see that a maximum of 10 contacts can still be recorded, and that it is difficult to reach the centre itself as a person concerned. I think it is very important that such technical matters can be resolved very quickly. I heard that the next update of the system is scheduled for July 22nd, so it's not until the end of this month. Can't such things be faster? We are dealing with technical problems. It seems to me that we should be able to work with man and power to remedy these problems. Fortunately, the number of infections is also falling today and gives us some breathing space, but that is why we should not slacken. It's a concern for me to get the system right as soon as possible. I have a second thought: we will conclude a cooperation agreement in order to arrive at a final legal framework on tracing and the database. What is the state of play? Is the cooperation agreement ready? It has yet to come to Parliament, but will it be possible to discuss and approve this before the recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u33	Mr President, it has been a huge job, and it has helped many people. I hear that miracles are happening today rather than tomorrow, but I do not know whether it will take nearly two years to reach a cooperation agreement in the normal way. Here it happened very quickly and then with a difficult given. We also needed legal help in defining the powers. Mrs Tillieux, you asked why the duration was 60 days. This means that this period is now sufficient in the light of recent developments in epidemiological research. This means that it can be erased every day. There was another question from Ms. Gilson about communities. There, he's registered ten days. This could be useful if either virus ever turned into a new pandemic. This can give us the information we need at that time on how it could develop. The difference is due to these reasons. Several members asked questions about the app. As you know, the interfederal group has worked hard on this. Today, le cahier de charges or the ledger has been sent out by the International Committee on Testing. We are expected to have the app by September 2020 if companies sign up for it. That is always the most optimistic scenario, but it is a realistic scenario. There, too, it has not been easy to develop all the specifications for something that, as we know, does not always meet the success in the countries around us. We have based ourselves on a German model that has experienced a lot of downloads and is the safest. Privacy-friendliness was also a criterion. In some countries, the app didn't register because of privacy issues or had to leave the app for that reason. Ms Gijbels, the Information Security Committee plays a more limited role, but is working to respond to the observations of the Data Protection Authority. I now come to a question from Mrs Gilson. If possible, it will be done through anonymization. However, we all know that some important tasks cannot be carried out with anonymisation but with pseudo-anonymisation. That gives more scope for research. That's why it was founded. Mrs Gijbels, DP3T is not a monopoly but a technology that is deemed necessary and therefore included. All companies can work with that. It is important that every company knows what the requirements are. Several Members have asked questions about these 10 contacts. A temporary solution had already been found for this, but in practice it appears that people almost never give up more than 10 people. Nevertheless, Mr Frank Robben informs me that a solution has been worked out to reach 100 contacts, which will be in production on Thursday evening. I don't know what kind of bubble these people live in. That can of course be done when they have been present at a mass event. We know that marriages go up to 50 people: even the pastor or mayor in a marriage with a positive case, will still have about 50 people. One hundred is directly ambitious, but that is how we know Mr Frank Robben.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u35	Yeah, the bubble's getting bigger. Mr Van Langenhove, we all know that it could also be done with a database at the level of the Länder. Belgium is a small country and there is also mobility within our country. The citizens go from one state to another. For example, if you and I come to work here, we are already in another state. If we were to set up different databases in the Länder, it would take more time to collect all the data. The databases should be able to interact with each other at a time when movements are taking place, which makes matters very complicated, including in the area of privacy. It could also delay the operation of the contact centres and let just the speed at which contacts can be traced be important to prevent an infected person from travelling for a long time and infecting people. Furthermore, the regular transmission of personal data between different decentralised databases entails a certain risk of data leaks. Hence the choice to use a very good database that already exists at Sciensano and to work with that cooperation agreement. Mrs Gilson, you asked for the reason for the national registry number. This is an essential element when it comes to searches in registers and crossroads banks. Crossroads do not work with a name and date of birth, but with the national register number. Otherwise, we would have to enter a lot of data into other databases. Without this number, it would have been impossible and would have required more time and work. You should know that the text prohibits the use of this data for any other purpose. The same applies to the Carrefour Social Security Bank. It is not easy to look up things if there is nothing to do with them. The searches are traceable and one must be able to explain why certain data has been consulted. As I said, anonymization remains the norm for scientific research. On the other hand, in order to trace people, we need pseudonymization instead. Mrs H annoyance, the rest of the work was the subject of a decision taken by the Council of Ministers last week. It is now under consideration by the Council of State. She's also being investigated by the Data Protection Authority. Those advices will take time. Mrs Hmente, you are asking if a debate will take place. The debate took place within the ICD. This is in fact an inter-federal cooperation agreement. It is obvious that, after that, it must be voted in the respective assemblies of the bodies which have signed this cooperation agreement. Then I think we can have a debate. Otherwise, it seems to me that there are already enough questions here in the oral and written questions. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u36	Madam Secretary, I will continue with a number of questions. Do you consider it desirable, among other things, that the CT scans should also be included for the non-hospitalised patients? I repeat my question on the pseudonymisation of data used for scientific purposes. I've asked you several times why that is. You reply that for certain applications anonymised data is not sufficient. I really wonder what applications that is for. After all, there is an essential difference between pseudonymisation and anonymisation in identifying identity data. When I was talking about the monopoly for DP3T technology, I meant that that technology was indeed chosen for that technology and not for others. Since other digital applications are possible according to the KB, I asked you if you can guarantee that for those and other digital applications a collaboration with Sciensano is also possible, when there is a demand to exchange data that is needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u37	Madam Minister, I may have been distracted, but I asked about the method used to obtain the opinion of the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State and I did not hear a response in that regard. Could you call me back, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u38	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Secretary. I note that anonymisation is used for scientific research, but the text talked about pseudonymisation. Maybe we should think about that. Respect for private life is very important for the MR Group. We will continue to be attentive on this point. For the rest, it is very positive to hear that the charge book for the app is ready. So there is hope that digital tracing can become more important than manual tracing. We believe that manual tracing is less respectful of private life. I am also very pleased that the federal government will ensure that the app will be available for the entire Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u39	Mr President, I was giving you great signs because I couldn't find the button to say that I wanted to speak. Unfortunately, you didn't see me. I would have liked to intervene in the previous conversation on the recognition of the occupational disease because there was also a problem of sound. I don't know if it's on my side or on your side. I understand that the new Royal Decree on the recognition of occupational diseases will be postponed, but if it is possible, Madam Minister, I would like to have a clarification on that. What do you intend to do after May 19, 2020 for workers who are considered in the recognition of occupational diseases in key sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u40	The debate on this royal decree is postponed. So you can still discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u41	Mrs Moscufo, we will come back to this royal decree next week. The presence of several ministers was required. Unfortunately, it was not possible to give the agendas. So you'll have the opportunity to ask your questions next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u42	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, perhaps you could also answer the additional questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u43	Certainly, Mr President. Mrs Gijbels, you asked a question about the technology that was chosen. DP3T was chosen precisely because it is the most privacy-friendly technology, which means that the system is decentralised and operates via bluetooth. It is internationally accepted that this offers the greatest opportunity for respect for privacy. I haven't heard about the CT scans being recorded yet. I'll check it out. Now the contact tracing is particularly important. The CT scans deal with data from the past few months, but the question arises as to whether it makes sense to proceed retroactively and whether this method offers possibilities. For scientific research, it might be useful. Well, it's for hospitalized patients, like you asked, but not for outpatients. Mrs Tillieux, we have decided that each Community will request an opinion from the Council of State. For the Data Protection Authority, we will ask federally for an opinion, because this is a federal body. This is done on behalf of all colleagues, and that will be one opinion. Mrs Gilson, yes, there is anonymization if it is possible to do the work and have the desired data. If this is not possible – and it is a decision that is made on a case-by-case basis – then pseudonymization is used, but it is not a decision taken randomly. The risk is calculated, an analysis is carried out. This is called Small Cell Risk Analysis to see if it is possible to do so in anonymization or if it requires pseudonymization. It is still important, in the light of all these efforts, that we be able to achieve the desired results. But I understand. I also find it necessary to avoid interfering with people's privacy if there is no added value. The line that runs through it, to which one can always appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u44	Thank you. If no one asks to speak, we will switch to KB No. 41 that you have signed, Madam Secretary, together with Minister Ducarme, whom I invite to the discussion with his cabinet assistant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u45	Mr President, I do not have the text of the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u46	I'll get him to you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u47	Mr President, the right of bridging for the self-employed will be extended in a number of cases: in the event of a total or partial break in activity, a reduction in activity, a restriction, a closure and a difficult restart. That is a good thing, because for some self-employed people the start-up, with all the costs they have done, is not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u48	Would you like to add something, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u49	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I am still the author of the document. I had planned to explain this order to you in detail. It has now been almost four months since emergency measures were taken to limit the spread of coronavirus. These measures and the crisis itself have affected a very large part of the self-employed and SMEs. That is why my concern, but also the concern of the enlarged Kern, has been and remains to help as far as possible all the independents who enter the conditions to justify their right to benefit from the right bridge of crisis. The law of 23 March 2020, which we discussed here and which was adopted unanimously in the meeting, introduced temporary crisis measures for self-employed workers under COVID-19. Thanks to this law, we were able to provide an absolutely necessary replacement income to help self-employed people who are faced with the consequences of this crisis. These temporary crisis measures on bridging rights initially applied for the months of March and April and were subsequently extended for the months of May and June 2020. Royal Decree No 41 aims on the one hand to ensure the necessary extension of this bridge law measure for the months of July and August 2020 to the self-employed whose activity is still to be interrupted because of the VOCID-19. The same royal decree also aims to introduce a temporary bridge measure in support of the recovery for the months of June, July and August 2020. It is also intended to provide a benefit of €1,291.69 per month or €1,614.10 per month in the case of dependants to support the self-employed for the months of June, July and August 2020 with regard to the restart of certain objectively targeted sectors. The first condition is that they must be self-employed workers whose activity was strictly prohibited or partially prohibited by ministerial decree until at least 3 May 2020. The second condition is to have a turnover for the second quarter of 2020 of at least 10% lower than the turnover of the same quarter in 2019. This includes many non-food retail businesses, the horeca sector, cultural, event, festive, recreational and sporting sectors. In addition to the extended initial bridge right, we have, with the agreement of Kern+10, established a bridge right of resumption to support until August 31st independents who remain in difficult situations. You know the situation is complicated on the ground. This Order of Special Powers finally provides that these two measures may still be extended by the King until the end of December at the latest. Mr President, these are the elements of synthesis that I could provide with regard to this royal decree of special powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u50	Minister, thank you. My party obviously supports this measure, which aims to protect the self-employed but also to prevent bankruptcies. You answer a few questions, but with regard to the plan of application for persons whose activity was still prohibited or limited on 3 May 2020, the explanatory memorandum states that the focus is on the Horeca sector, non-food trade, hairdressers, aestheticians. Could you clarify the sectors concerned and those which are not? Are you considering extending the measure to other sectors? I think I heard you say that the King had the opportunity to extend the order until December 2020. That was one of my questions. As regards the budgetary impact, the press has read the figure of 436 million. Can you tell us if this figure is correct? Finally, how many independents have applied since 26 June to benefit from this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask the questions relating to the Royal Decree No. 41 to be dealt with, so that Minister De Block can have access, if Minister Ducarme accepts the answers, and then the questions relating to KB No. 43.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u52	We have no problem with extending the right of bridging, quite the contrary. It is absolutely good that the measure can be extended until the end of August for sectors that could not or could not restart. This also applies to self-employed persons whose re-starting has been very difficult, they also deserve our absolute support. The rules are fraud-prone. Self-employed people who had barely sales before the corona crisis have also been able to make use of this and can still do so. In this way, we keep those companies or self-employed people alive artificially, with the support of the government. That can't be the intention. We hope that the aid will reach those who really need it and deserve it, and that it will be closely monitored for fraud. I have another question about something that was not entirely clear to me. Is the right of bridging automatically granted during those three months if it has already been granted the first time, or does it really need to be applied for again a month?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u53	Minister, my party will support the process of extending the bridge law, among other things, for the reasons you have listed. We also have a few questions to ask you, which are somewhat in line with my colleague's. They cover the sectors concerned. Can you say more? I think that many independents do not yet know how to resume their activities, sometimes not even partially. It is important for us to have a little more information on this. Then the question of the extension until 31 August arises. We know very well that, at the economic level, things are not going to change very positively. We wonder if it would not be appropriate to extend the bridge law even longer. What was the Kern's reflection on this? Do you have any numbers? How many self-employed have they applied for? Of these, how many did they receive the bridge allocation? How many did they not receive it, and why? Did you eventually make a partial assessment? My last question concerns the claim of the Union of Middle Classes. The UCM considers that obtaining the bridge right only after the seventh consecutive day of arrest is a somewhat too limited condition and penalizes many independents. Has any thought been given to the easing of this condition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u54	Minister, on behalf of all the independents, I would like to thank you for drawing up this proposal. Indeed, it is essential to support the engines of our economy and to ensure that the negative effects of the current VOCID-19 crisis are minimized. I would like to go back to you with information that should be checked with the social insurance funds. It appears that uncertainties exist as to the type of form to be completed in order to obtain the extension of the bridge right. If it is within your jurisdiction, could you contact them so that the independents can benefit from facilities in the administrative processing of their file?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u55	Mr Minister, first of all, I thank you for the work you are doing, particularly in favour of the self-employed and SMEs in our country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u56	Today, we can say that everyone knows the right bridge. Through this ARPS, you extend several measures under certain conditions. You are also introducing a bridge right of support to recovery, intended for all – and there are many – who are not going to restart at the cruising pace that was going on before the crisis. My first question has already been asked. Would we be able to know the sectors targeted in particular by these measures? Even if the device is general, I imagine that some industries will be more demanding than others? Are these measures the result of your exchanges with the sectors and stakeholders? I would therefore like to know the way forward. Finally, we came to the end of the special powers. Should we still expect certain provisions to be formalized?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u57	Mr Minister, the extension of the bridging allowance is a good thing. I would have liked to have heard from you which sectors are mainly using them and which administrative problems they may be experiencing. In the field, there is a question of exactly how to do that. Is there already a view of the conditions, for example 10 % less turnover or 10 % less orders? How is this applied and monitored in practice? Mr Houtmeyers also referred to it, we are getting signals that some people are creative about it. Is there any control over that? We have similar examples in Flanders, where it is said that some have been too flexible in applying for benefits. Minister Crevits will have to react occasionally. Is there the same experience at the federal level with this bridging benefit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u58	Mr President, before answering the questions asked to me, I must confess that the sound was not always optimal. However, I think I understand their meaning. A series of them deal with the definition of the scope of the bridge right of resumption. I am not going to mention all the sectors concerned here because that would be a mistake on my part. They are active in one of the sectors which have been the subject of the Ministerial Decision and which have been completely or partially closed for more than one calendar month and for which the provisions and restrictions have been lifted since 4 May or a later date. These are therefore all sectors which have a closure of at least one calendar month, which have had to reopen with constraints. A second condition is that it has to be demonstrated that the activity for the second quarter shows a decrease of at least 10% in turnover or orders compared to the same quarter of the previous year. This is obviously subject to a 10% loss of turnover in the second quarter of this year compared to the second quarter of the previous year. Like you, I can give a number of examples but, in a royal decree, not all sectors are listed at the risk of forgetting them. In this case, the conditions are issued. This concerns the horeca, the shops, the hairdressers, the fora, the event sector, in short all those sectors which have been struck by a ban of at least one calendar month and which can demonstrate this loss of 10% of the turnover to their social insurance fund. It is quite easy to demonstrate this: just compare the amount of invoices issued in 2019 to the amount of invoices issued in 2020. We wanted this system to be as fluid as possible, a little like what was done under the original bridge law, which, I repeat, continues until 31 August 2020. So there is the bridge right that we are now detailing and the bridge right that you know that continues and benefits the self-employed who have not been struck by these closure measures. If this decrease in activity related to the VOCID crisis warrants a one-week stop, working days, they may, in this context, continue to collect the bridge right. Social insurance funds have done an extraordinary job. From 300 bridge fees per year, with the new formula that I have introduced, we have moved on to the payment of 400,000 bridge fees per month. As a result, over 400,000 independent individuals have benefited from the bridge law. It is true that a small number of social insurance funds need to update their site. My firm has asked them, together with INASTI, to ensure that they have a little clearer information for the independents as regards the right bridge to take over. If you still hear independents asking questions about the subject, it should not last long, because the minority of caisses that need to update the information on their web platform committed themselves to doing so very quickly. As far as fraud is concerned, some give the impression that the self-employed would abuse the situation. This caricature of the self-employed as a fraud must end. As in the case of other measures, checks must, of course, be provided for and any cases of fraud will, of course, be penalised. While more than 4,000 self-employed people have benefited from the transitional right, 15.7% of the applications were refused by the social insurance funds because they did not meet the conditions for granting them. Before 24 June, 640 investigations were launched by the RSVZ's Directorate of Fair Competition (ECL). In the meantime, the RSVZ has closed 305 of these files, 76 of which have a positive effect. These RSVZ checks on abuse are of course important. With regard to Mrs Thémont's question concerning the amount of 436 million, I can say that this is, in fact, an estimate which has been made for the bridge right of resumption which is linked to the condition of the 10% reduction in turnover in the context of a total reopening. This amount has been budgeted for the months of June, July and August. Questions on the potential extension beyond 31 August were also asked. As Minister of Self-Employed, I have only one requirement: the requirement of equity between employees and self-employed persons. If temporary economic unemployment related to the VOCID crisis, with specific criteria, were to be prolonged, it was clear that bridge law should continue to exist. We are not going to extend a support measure for businesses and employees and end the bridge law. It's obvious! That is why I proposed to Kern+10 and therefore to the whole government and party presidents an extension of this right until the end of the year. That, Mr President, is the clarification that I wanted to give to answer the legitimate questions that Members have asked me about this royal decree of special powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u59	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for the figures relating to the checks carried out, either by the social insurance funds or by the RSVZ. The same checks must also be carried out in the case of temporary unemployment by different bodies. I started by saying that the extension of the bridging allowance is a good thing, but I do not think that anyone intended to make it the caricature you make of it. That a self-employed person is a fraud, that is what you are saying, and none of the Members of this House has said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be misunderstood. I was not referring at all to your intervention in the cartoons, but rather to certain articles in the newspapers. I understand that there was no caricature in your remarks. Now, there have been cartoons that I don't accept. A lot of excesses have been reported. What I can tell you is, obviously, any abuse will be punished. It is in this sense that I have made sure that the controls against a minority are strengthened. You've heard the number of cases: 1,600. This is very little compared to the 400,000 self-employed. How do we operate the controls? This is done by adding a number of ONSS, VAT data. There are also field checks. I asked for this so that the ECL cell with INASTI would not hesitate to perform a number of probes on site in case of suspicion. It is also monitored on the basis of the collaboration between the social insurance funds and INASTI. When the body has identified a number of doubts, the contact is made so that the control and study of the file goes further. It is clear that, as in any system, there are a number of people who wish to pull on the rope and abuse. We have also seen cases of temporary unemployment. There's a filter. As I told you, almost 16% of bridge applications were denied to people who were not in the conditions. We did not grant this right to everyone. We still had to be in the conditions, which the House voted unanimously. The bridge law is provided for in a text that I have had voted in the House. It provides for conditions, which have been supported by all political groups. Of course, we are careful to carry out intensive controls. There will be sanctions, and repayments from those who have deceived. It is clear that this is important, also for bridge law in the long term, because this bridge right, I think, will have to be extended, probably on the basis of different criteria. There is no reason why in stopping situations this is more difficult for the self-employed than for the employees. Of course, we must ensure that the criteria are met. Otherwise, it will be difficult to extend the bridge law beyond the crisis situation. That's it, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Member, in order to remove any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u61	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the Royal Decree No. 43, which provides support to the OMCWs through an increase in the charge for a period of seven months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u62	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that this royal decision has provided for measures and means to support the OMCWs by providing an increase of 15% in the reimbursement of living wages. We welcome that, of course, but I do have two questions in this regard. The measure will only start from 1 June and will apply to the applications for a living wage from 1 June to 31 December. However, even before June, many people were in difficulty who could not immediately rely on temporary unemployment. I am thinking, for example, of people whose interim contract was not renewed by the employer, so that the workers concerned could not claim our measures which still apply to that target group. These people may have also had to call on the OMCW for a living wage or for additional support. The question arises as to whether we might be threatening to forget that group of people. We think that is an important point. What will we do specifically for this group? That is why my first question is why this measure does not start until 1 June. My second question is why this measure ends on 31 December. The number of files on the application for a living wage is increasing. That's monitored, that's what I understand. A state of affairs on this can be good. Perhaps you could tell us how many additional requests have been submitted in percentage terms so far? We believe that it will not stop on 31 December 2020, as the consequences for our families are great. Minister, will the measure continue after 31 December, or how do you see it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u63	Mr President, Minister, it is an effective step forward, but an insufficient step for us. We have also tabled a proposal on this subject. I will make two points which we consider to be inadequate or insufficient. A first point has already been raised in part by Mrs Slegers. The decision will only enter into force on 1 June 2020, although much of the negative impact of the corona crisis has been there since April 2020 and certainly since May 2020. Then why does it not enter into force from 1 April 2020, as our proposal provides? Mrs Slegers referred to the interim contracts. I'm taking in another contract, the day contracts. I do not know whether Mrs Slegers considers the day contracts to be interim contracts, but those involved have had to stop overnight and no longer have a contract. Many of them have fallen back on their living wage. For them there is no support, which is a pity. So we would have liked to have the support from 1 April 2020. The second limitation set out in the Decision is as follows: It is a question of additional support, which is good, but it is not enough. I'll repeat it again. It only applies to new living wage applications, while a lot of OCMWs are happy but also giving additional support and not only to new living wage applications, because of the financial situations that have become difficult for many. We would also have liked to see additional support from the OMCWs for the additional support they provide and not just for the new additional living wage applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u64	Mr. Minister, it is well known that CPAS have experienced particularly difficult situations in recent years, with an increase in requests for assistance, particularly social integration income, by more than 50%. An alarm cry was made. This measure is therefore welcome, especially since the situation is likely to get worse with the crisis we are experiencing today. The number of beneficiaries and aid will inevitably grow significantly. Our group had tabled a bill to raise the reimbursement rate. Meanwhile, an agreement has been reached in Kern. It's moving forward and it's a good thing. Nevertheless, we still need a more comprehensive reflection on the issue of funding CPAS. How can we implement more structural measures, given that the text we are discussing today is of course a temporary measure which will end in December this year? Have discussions already been held with the CPAS on their future, in view of this situation, and on the means available to them today and at their disposal tomorrow? Secondly, a social emergency task force had been set up within this framework, but it is up to us that it has problems with the flow of information between the various working groups set up. The consequence is slow decision-making. I would like to know whether this task force will be sustained and whether an evaluation will be carried out as part of its operation, with the aim of making improvements to this functioning. Finally, can civil society, which has real expertise on the ground, take part in this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u65	Minister, we support the temporary increase in the reimbursement rate. The OCMW's experience extra pressure during the corona crisis, among other things because job students lose their jobs or people lose their income due to temporary unemployment. The fact that the OCMWs are given additional resources, which they can focus on for the people who really need help, also seemed to us to be an intelligent way to support the OCMWs. This approach is therefore preferable to the granting of a blank cheque to the beneficiaries themselves, who are not all affected by the corona crisis. The limitation of time and the limitation of new applicants for a living wage are also a good thing to keep budgetary costs within the limits. At the meeting of the super-core on 12 June, it was decided, in addition to the previously announced and agreed measures, to allocate, among other things, EUR 15 million of support to OCMWs, EUR 50 extra living wages for 6 months and the increase in the reimbursement rate, an additional EUR 100 million to the OCMWs, but we did not agree with that. We also question the increasing support of OCMWs and life labourers. Of course, certain groups certainly feel the impact of the corona crisis, but many other supportive measures have been taken to deal with it. For example, most temporary unemployed people receive additional compensation from their employer, they also receive an RVA supplement of EUR 5.63 per day and then there is the Flemish energy premium. Responsible management of public funds means that expenditure must not exceed what is really necessary to meet a particular need. We have the impression that the ad hoc decisions on the basis of which more and more additional support is given to the OMCWs and the wage-earners are not always based on a thorough analysis of the real needs. Hence my question. Do you have clear information and a clear analysis to determine whether all aid measures already taken are sufficient or not and whether they are too high or too low to meet the real requirements for support from the OMCWs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u66	Minister, we thank you once again for all the work you have done since the beginning of the crisis, in particular through the aid granted to the most vulnerable and those who have had no choice but to turn to the CPAS to find a safety net. As has been said and confirmed, hundreds of thousands of euros have been spent on aid to the poorest and on the work of follow-up by CPAS. This is not a question that I am asking you, but a reflection that I have given myself at the end of work in the Committee on Social Affairs. We had to deal with a bill from some colleagues, which was intended to grant an increase in the rate of reimbursement of the RIS, but the terms of the grant differed in size. We were very surprised to see this text disembark, while the ARPS had just been approved in expanded kern. So I just wanted to highlight our surprise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u67	Mr. President, we are facing a 15% increase to help CPAS. I believe that this pandemic has highlighted the important social problem of poverty. The VOCID-19 only highlighted it even more. Already before this problem of VOCID-19, we insisted on a more in-depth reflection on how to increase funding for CPAS. For us, going to the CPAS is already the failure of the functioning of a society because when we find ourselves there, we must already fall outside the grids of the social security net which will also have to be refinanced. I would like to know why only from 1 June when the CPAS federations had already fired the alarm bell with the demands that had arrived since 1 March. I would also like to support one of my colleagues' request that aid should not only be granted to new applications, but that there should also be a supplement for all applications. I would also like to ask you whether you have already had this thought in a more structural way. Indeed, the field returns that I have indicate that people working in CPAS gently accept requests with financial goggles and that all social empathy is a little set aside. It's not always voluntary, but it's because you have to manage a portfolio that's too narrow. There are still other examples, such as the municipalities that decide to increase the allocation of CPAS. This is not a solution when we know that the municipalities themselves very often have financial problems, especially the most popular municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u68	It is necessary that the response to the crisis includes not only an economic component, but also a social component. There are therefore many measures, such as a 50 euro payment for each beneficiary of social assistance and a 15% temporary increase in the reimbursement rate for the OMCWs. Firstly, we must point out that these two measures are not isolated measures. They are part of the overall social policy. A budget of EUR 300 million was thus made available. Some parliamentarians have dealt with issues beyond these two measures. Mrs Tillieux, the task force wanted to concentrate with all the interlocutors on the ground and the Regions. In terms of social action, the federal government is likely to set an example. Complementary social assistance is rather the prerogative of the Regions and I imagine that we will soon have initiatives in the head of the Regions as strong as those we are taking at the federal level with this EUR 300 million. I think that would be welcome. Everyone has to take initiatives. The work with the regions is going well and we have had contacts with the consultation group to further streamline the exchange of information and the closeness of work with the task force. Both CPAS federations and food banks have understood that we are fully responding to their demands in this context. I would still like to go back to the whole aid package. If we talk about a social response to a crisis, we cannot ignore a number of financial commitments we have made for CPAS since the beginning of this crisis. For food aid and basic hygiene aid for the most vulnerable, I have allocated EUR 6 million to distribute basic aid and more than EUR 1 million to the food banks. For social assistance in general, a budget of €115 million is provided for CPAS so that they can help each person with difficulties. Besides, I made a proposal to the super kern. The president of the sp.a agreed to the proposal. For him, that's a good measure. I chose to offer supplementary social assistance because it is the most comprehensive aid. It does not just fund food and hygiene issues. It is also the most comprehensive range of social assistance that can be made available to CPAS to pay energy bills, insurance bills when hit by the VOCID crisis. We know that in the coming months there will be social impacts. That is why such a large envelope has been released. By comparison, in 2018, the total supplementary social assistance amounted to EUR 176 million. In this case, €115 million is added. It is useful to know that, and I thank Mrs Tillieux for highlighting it. This is still an important commitment to pay medical expenses, child-rearing expenses, etc. In the context of this EUR 115 million, we have ensured that EUR 10 million is earmarked for the functioning of the CPAS, because we know that there will be an increase in social integration income. On the basis of the first analysis of CPAS, I indicated that there would be a 10% increase in social integration income for the year. The SPP Social integration has returned to me and informed me of its assessment of the difficulty of the crisis, of the bankruptcies, of the figures of unemployment. We can probably only see today the summit of this social crisis. There will be a social crisis. According to the SPP Social Integration, there will be an increase. The fork is wide. That is why I think the first assessment, which provides for an increase in integration revenues of between 4 and 13 per cent, was good. We are well aware that the measures we have taken will not necessarily be the last. That is why we planned them until the end of the year. We're talking a lot about recovery, but I'm going to tell you that the recovery will also have to be social. Social efforts will have to be made. We will have to continue to support all of our CPAS, but also all the social actors on the ground – and here I am talking about the federal level, with the Regions. A question was asked about 1 June. I have to say that we have already released 15 million supplementary social assistance. We hadn't waited. We need to know that we have very regular meetings with the CPAS federations; we do not navigate socially. With the SPP Social Integration, we are in constant contact with them. They told us that during confinement, requests had not increased significantly. But I think they're coming. They are already here today. And they will probably continue to grow. CPAS are at work. There was no delay in providing support to CPAS in the weeks that have passed. Indeed, several CPAS will be able to benefit from this social commitment. I have been asked about the monitoring that we have put in place with the Social Integration PPS, in order to maintain constant contact with the CPAS and to assess developments as closely as possible. The SPP Social Integration is used to working with CPAS. This allows us to state clearly and without delay what the prospects for increasing the RIS are. I would also like to go back to the €50 allocation. It is expected that people who combine it with GRAPA will receive this new allowance only once a month. Instead of releasing the bonus at once, the kern+10 preferred to spread it. It will therefore be paid from July to December next. With regard to the granting of RIS to beneficiaries, a circular is being drawn up. This additional financial support for vulnerable persons is part of the concrete answers to the key questions formulated by the organisations in the field and the GEES. There is also a temporary increase in the rate of repayment of integration income by the government in respect of CPAS. Therefore, the government will provide an additional 15% in the social integration income repayment rate for those who have separated from the CPAS following the crisis. This measure also covers the period from June to December 2020. To be clear, with this 15% increase, of course, there is no question for the federal government to take over the new RIS more than the old ones. We're just starting from a 15-per-cent key to have a budget projection base. Indeed, the CPAS will organise this additional participation as they wish. With these means, they will lead the politicians as they want. The budgetary and accounting criteria must be distinguished from the realities on the ground. That, Mr President, is the synthesis that I wanted to make in trying to gather at best the elements of the answer to the questions that have been asked to me. I have also been asked questions about the future in terms of funding CPAS. But that was not the subject of our debate. I would like to discuss this aspect because it is important. The federal share has increased in recent years. We know that the CPAS are funded by the federal state, the Regions, the municipalities. We also know that they play a central role. As far as I am concerned, rather than considering the CPAS as an expression of failure, I prefer to see them as places where we help to bounce, to recover. That's what a CPAS is for. It's also an accompaniment, a guide, a counsel. I want to look at CPAS work positively. The idea is to get out of it, to be able to be revived in terms of life in society and work. This goes further, as you know, than getting back to work. It is an accompaniment in terms of social integration itself. A question was asked about the students. We made sure to take measures for students at this particularly difficult time, also by raising the occupational compensation threshold for scholarship students who were at a disadvantage compared to non-students. It is therefore clear that in the coming months, and with, I hope, a full-fledged government that will be in place, we will have to assess the funding and action of CPAS. I can assure you that I want to do this work in consultation with the actors on the ground, like the work we do at the consultation group level, but also through the very constructive meetings that we hold extremely regularly with the CPAS federations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u69	Mr President, Minister, you have said a number of very pertinent things. Most of all, the relance must be a social relic. The measures that are being taken today, with the 300 million euros from the federal government, are no less. Those are a lot of resources that end up with OMCWs and vulnerable families. I have also listened carefully to my colleagues, and the concern is that we must ensure that these resources are used in a sustainable way. If next year, from January 2021 onwards, it appears that there are still a lot of files on living wages and that family members may still be in temporary unemployment, which will normally end and therefore move to unemployment, additional measures need to be taken. The concern is that this must already be prepared today. If we are already thinking today about what support is best for helping families in the medium and long term in a sustainable way, then that is well spent money in the future. You say that the commitment of the communities is also important. You are absolutely right about that. The Flemish minister has already provided at least 50 million euros for OCMWs and local authorities, but also directly to vulnerable families, via a consumer cheque that will be rolled out in the coming weeks and months. Mr. Secretary, we need a partner to work on the social relay. For us, monitoring is very important, as is cooperation with the OMCWs and with the interfederal working group on combating poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u70	Colleagues, I'm getting a message from the Secretary of Defense. He's been waiting for over an hour, almost an hour and a half. He tells me he's got an appointment in 10 minutes. Could you be very brief in the reply so that we can also deal with the next point with Minister Goffin very quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u71	Mr. Chairman, I had no idea that by asking Minister Ducrame what he thought about the means and the future of CPAS, I was sending him on such a strong launch ramp in relation to his commitment to CPAS work. That's very good! I thank him for all the answers and even the considerations he has given. I'm holding on to one fundamental thing. It is at the same time, as my colleague says, that we should be able to sustain the resources because the situation will not be clarified overnight. On the contrary! Above all, I note that you have the will to move forward with the actors on the ground and in consultation. It's a very nice word. We didn't always have the opportunity to hear it. For that already, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u72	I thank Minister Ducarme for his presentation and Minister Goffin for his patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u73	Who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u74	Minister, the N-VA can understand that corona parents' leave as it is applied to employees is also consistently extended to the military. Nevertheless, we have never been in favour of extending corona parents' leave to July and August. We are actually just a cool lover of the increased benefit, being 25 %. An incentive is being created to simply convert parental leave into coronaparent leave. It does not affect the existing right to such leave. It also pays more thanks to the increased allowance. In our view, the measure also encourages inactivity. Moreover, now that the economy and the care of children have been restarted, it is no longer relevant. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u75	Mr Minister, of course we support this royal decree, which is certainly technical, but above all in line with the demands of the Defence staff and the trade unions. Since the beginning of the crisis, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have wanted solutions to be provided for parents who have difficulty reconciling family and work life. We know that there are many examples. The military does not escape this reality, of course. Therefore, the royal decree goes in the right direction, even if it comes a little late. We have also introduced a bill to improve this leave, in particular to correct its insufficiency in terms of duration, but this is another debate. With regard to the employer's agreement, given the time lag with the same royal decree, which I would call "civil", could you tell us, minister, whether a directive has been given to ensure that the authority's agreement is, in a way, automatic in view of the short period still possible and applicable? I mean, why didn't this order come out earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u76	Minister, I do not want to delay you too long, but I would like to make one more comment about a mistake that we believe has slipped into the KB. In the discussion of the Council of State in Article 8 of the Power Decision, the Council of State states that, inter alia, it should be made clear in Paragraph 2 that it concerns a derogation from Article 1, fourth to sixth paragraph of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2020 on the application and award procedures for parental protection leave and leave for care of a seriously ill related person. It was correctly amended in Article 8 of the Royal Decree, but only in the French text. In the Dutch text of the Royal Decree, it is still wrong that Article 8 (2) should cover an exception from Article 1, first to fourth paragraph. This also needs to be adapted in the Dutch text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of coherence and in order to avoid discrimination between military personnel and defence civilian personnel, the dates of conversion from ordinary parental leave to parental protection corona leave and the absence of entry into force are aligned with Royal Decree No. 23 of 13 May 2020 and RB No. 45 of 26 June 2020. Finally, it seems to me useful to make it clear that this Defence Order No. 42 transposes for the military Royal Decrees Nos. 23 and 45 on civilian employment, no more or less. Mrs Tillieux, to answer your question, I can tell you that the directive will be applied in a manner similar to that proposed by Minister Muylle but in an accelerated manner. The Chief of Staff will therefore reserve a favourable follow-up to the request. As for the improvement of the Dutch text, I think there is no problem in making it a good translation. So far, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-06-55-commissie-ic229x.u78	Thank you, Minister. Colleagues, are there any reservations about that? [[No.]]
