ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] [[:]] Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, while the terrorist acts on European soil had become rarer since the horrific attacks of 2015 and again 2016, I am already a third time before you in order to pay tribute to the victims of a terrorist attack in a Member State of the European Union. Indeed, it was with shock and indignation that we became aware of the attack that struck Vienna on Monday, November 2. The record is heavy, at least 4 people were killed and 22 were injured. Once again, it is a terrorist attack targeting civilians. The cowardice of this act claimed by Daesh can only inspire deep contempt. This is once again an attack on our fundamental values and freedoms. We all know that the spread of hate messages, in particular through social media, inciting terror, is a major threat to the security of our European states and our way of living together. Only by showing solidarity, defending our fundamental values and working together will we be able to defeat those who want to destabilise our societies by force and terror. No doctrine, no belief whatsoever, may in any way, at any time and in any circumstance, destroy or undermine human dignity. The House condemns in the strongest terms these heinous acts perpetrated by individuals for whom human life no longer has any value. I expressed our compassion for the families and relatives of the unfortunate victims of this barbaric act to my counterpart in the Austrian Parliament and asked him to convey to the representatives of the Austrian people the condolences of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u3	Madam President, it is a sad fact that for the third time in a short period of time we must offer our condolences to the families of the victims of terrorist acts perpetrated on European soil: twice in France and this week in Vienna. The government as a whole is partnering with your support. Diese Woche habe ich diese Botschaft meinem österreichischen Kollegen persönlich vermittelt. Niemals werden wir irgendeinem Terrorismus nachgeben. Wie Bundeskanzler Kurz diese Woche sagte: wir werden uns von Terroristen nicht einschüchtern lassen. Wir werden diesem Hass keinen Raum geben. Gemeinsam mit der österreichischen Regierung und mit allen unseren europäischen Partner, werden wir die Grundwerte unserer offenen und freien Gesellschaft verteidigen. Wir lassen uns nicht einschüchtern. Madam President, our services have also increased their vigilance. They closely monitor the situation at both national and international levels, and take the necessary additional security measures. In the light of the uncertainty surrounding the US presidential elections, it is also clearer than ever that better security for our country lies in a closer European alliance, in more and better European cooperation and in the exchange of information in the fight against terror. This will therefore be discussed at the December European Council. Every European country is facing the same danger, with the same type of radicalised Salafists, who find their ideas on the same terrorist networks. So we must not fight the battle separately in the 27 countries, each on its island. We must fight together. Then we will also win the battle together, as a free and open society, a society of light, which will make it out of the darkness of terror.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents which has just concluded, you have received an agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents you have just received an agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you take into consideration and refer to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: the bill (Mrs Karin Jiroflée, Laurence H annoyance and Barbara Creemers, MM. Hervé Rigot and Daniel Bacquelaine, Ms Nathalie Muylle and Mr Robby De Caluwé) with a view to allowing persons who are not legally qualified to carry out activities in the context of the VOCID-19 coronavirus epidemic, No. 1618/1. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you consider and send to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: the legislative proposal (Mrs Karin Jiroflée, Mr Laurence Hennuy and Mr Barbara Creemers, Mr Hervé Rigot and Daniel Bacquelaine, Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mr Robby De Caluwé) to allow nurse activities to be carried out by persons not legally authorised under the coronavirus COVID-19 epidemic, no. 1618/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is little point in saying that the situation in hospitals is particularly serious and that the pressure on nursing staff is enormous. In the meantime, there is a shortage of hands on the bed. We are very concerned about this. Solutions are being worked out to deal with this and to deal with the pressure on nursing staff. This legislative proposal (No. 1618/1) provides a framework for one of the solutions. There is a great deal of willingness in the care landscape to catch up where necessary, but that obviously requires a legal framework, hence our request for urgency for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in hospitals obviously requires urgent action and a battery of measures. However, I must admit that I am deeply disappointed by the near absence of social dialogue with the actors on the ground. I'm talking about nurses, about union organizations. There is a form of fait accompli. I will speak later on the substance of the proposal, but basically we are calling for urgency when we have not even discussed it with the main stakeholders. I must confess that I do not understand this way of working. It was the habit of the former Minister of Health, Mrs De Block, who, at least, assumed full responsibility. It was an advantage. She said social consultation was informative for her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u9	All I'm talking about here is urgency!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u10	I think, Mr Hedebouw, that we must go back to the essentials, that is to say, the question of urgency. Do you agree to consider this text as a matter of urgency? We are not talking about its content.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u11	The question is therefore: does this urgency make it possible to short-circuit any form of social consultation? That is why we will vote against this urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u12	Madam President, we reject the urgency for the same reasons as my colleague from the PTB. But it will be granted, and we will develop our arguments later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u13	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip068x.u14	The urgency is acquired and we can close the plenary session, knowing that the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities is meeting here in the Chamber, in a public way and retransmitted. We are meeting for another plenary session to vote on this proposal within a quarter of an hour after the committee's work is completed, unless there are many amendments tabled and the services should be allowed to draft the documents. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 5, 2020 at 6.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 November 2020 at 6.15 p.m.
