ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a topical debate, but an ordinary sitting with oral questions. So we will deal with question-by-question. You know the system: each questioner will have two minutes' speaking time and then the Minister will give the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I am asking a question about the ruling of the China Tribunal, which was recently released. A number of further findings were highlighted. I will not repeat the conclusions of the report. They are included in my question. However, I would point out that an organ extraction, as the report shows, in the case of executed prisoners, mostly supporters of the Falun Gong movement but also of the Uighurs, is a practice that has been going on for a long time. However, international pressure on this issue was stepped up. In 2014, China announced that it would stop removing organs for transplantation in executed prisoners. It is also far from proven that the practice would only take place with Falun Gonganghangers or with Uighurs. That is why I have the following questions for you. You are undoubtedly aware of the ruling of the China Tribunal. What is your response to the final conclusions of the report? Have you already mentioned or raised the results and practices of organ abuse? If so, on what occasions or in which forums have you already done so? I had two more questions, if you don't mind. In early 2019, a group of Australian doctors in the British Medical Journal, a scientific journal, made another appeal to delete a series of investigations that would have happened with illegally harvested organs of prisoners executed in China. Do you know that this has already happened in our country? The British Medical Journal has also issued its own call for action, in which it urges the international community to take rapid steps to put an end to the horrible and illegal practices of forced organ extraction. How will you express this in your capacity as Foreign Minister? In other words, what initiatives will you take to make the most of the malpractices, exert pressure and publicly condemn them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned earlier in our committee on 18 February 2020, I am concerned about the human rights situation of Falun Gong practitioners and Uighurs living in China, including indications of organ removal. My services are following this situation closely. Belgium does not hesitate to express its concerns to the Chinese authorities in the various fora concerned. In our bilateral relations with China, this topic is regularly discussed at meetings. This was also the case on the recent Belgian economic mission to China. In 1984, China had legalized the transplantation of executed prisoners' organs, provided that the detainee or his close relatives had given their prior consent. In 2014, however, the Chinese government announced that the organs of prisoners could no longer be used for transplant purposes. In practice, however, it remains very difficult to assess the extent to which China is effectively implementing this new legislation, as it never discloses information on the number of executions in general and on the number of transplants in particular. My services closely monitor the situation and are aware of the outcome of the China Tribunal. They shall also meet representatives of civil society at regular intervals. As you know, Belgium does not hesitate to raise the human rights situation in China and in particular in Xinjiang with the Chinese government. For example, in 2019, our country supported several public statements within the framework of the Human Rights Council of the UN General Assembly. One of the issues that is constantly raised is the question of providing meaningful access for independent observers to Xinjiang, including to the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Our country also intervened during the Universal Periodic Review of China in November 2018. As you may know, this is a unique mechanism that allows other Member States to review the human rights situation in each Member State of the United Nations on a cyclical basis. In addition to the specific recommendation to release detainees in the Xinjiang rehabilitation camps, Belgium also requested China to extend a standing invitation to the special procedures and to respond positively to the outstanding requests of the special rapporteurs to visit that country. This applies, inter alia, to special rapporteurs on minorities and freedom of religion or belief. Human rights are also one of the most important pillars of the EU-China relationship. The EU regularly expresses its concern about Chinese secrecy regarding the death penalty and organ transplants. For example, these issues are addressed at EU-China Human Rights Dialogues, the most recent of which took place in April 2019. In conclusion, I can assure you that the removal of organs in China and the human rights situation of Uighurs in Xinjiang in general are issues that we will continue to follow closely. Finally, as regards your question about whether or not investigations are being carried out in Belgium with organs illegally harvested by China of executed prisoners, I must inform you that it is outside my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer, but also for your interest in the human rights issue, particularly of the Uighur minority in Xinjiang province. I have taken note of your call to allow the United Nations special rapporteurs and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to carry out their investigative work with a view to ensuring full transparency on organ trafficking and transplantation. Be aware, in any case, that we will support you in your efforts, hoping that progress can be made on respect for human rights in China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Whether we want it or not, we are directly or indirectly involved, it is not as a country, but as a Member State of the EU. I understand from you that we repeatedly express our concern, but apparently that is not enough. I believe that this is being done too voluntarily, and I therefore support the initiative you mentioned to send researchers on the ground in order to confirm the statements made by the China Tribunal. The destructive evidence of organ extraction and the associated torture calls for an adequate response to those serious crimes. Moreover, I would like to ask you explicitly to publicly condemn these crimes. It would be harder if we could do this together with a number of EU partners. I will certainly continue to follow this theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u6	Minister, Kizito Mihigo was found dead in his cell on Monday 17 February in what could be called, at least, suspicious circumstances. Kizito Mihigo had tried to cross the border with Burundi but was arrested a kilometer before the border. In 2015, he was arrested on charges of alleged terrorism, for expressing his support for the opposition. The truth is that he had made a song in which he advocated reconciliation and recognition of all victims of genocide, including Hutus. He was sentenced to ten years in prison for conspiracy, but was released after a presidential pardon in 2018. This year he was arrested again, because he did not join the Kagame regime and wanted to be neutral. That got him badly, because he was found dead in prison after he was arrested. The question is, of course, whether he was murdered. For those who read the diary he wrote, it is clear that he was threatened with death several times, if he continued his reconciliation process. How do you respond to the news of the death of Kizito Mihigo? Will you, like Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, ask that a report be prepared by the UN Human Rights Council on the death of Kizito Mihigo? If that report points to a political murder, will you also argue in favour of an international criminal investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u7	I deeply regret the disappearance on 17 February of the Rwandan singer Kizito Mihigo. Mr Mihigo was indeed a very popular singer in Rwanda and repeatedly advocated reconciliation and peace in the region in his lyrics. Although the Rwandan authorities had conducted a rapid investigation into the death and the latter's conclusion was that the most probable cause of death was asphyxiation by hanging, Mr. Mihigo's death in prison gave rise to a lot of emotions and questions, not only within the diaspora, but also within the international community. With regard to Mr. Rutabana, a French citizen of Rwandan origin and a member of the Rwandan National Congress, I can confirm that his family has been unable to contact him for several months. With regard to your questions about the measures that can be taken at UN level, it is not customary for the UN to carry out an investigation and draw up a report within the framework of the Human Rights Council in response to such incidents. Rwanda is a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as the Convention on Torture and Other Virtue, Unhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment. It is therefore primarily up to the Rwandan authorities, inter alia, in line with their obligation to ensure that the investigation opened by the Rwanda Investigation Bureau can take place without prejudice, in full openness and transparency, so that the circumstances leading to the death of Kizito Mihigo are cleared and, where appropriate, the persons responsible are tried. My services are closely monitoring the situation of human rights and civil and political freedoms in Rwanda. I can also assure you that we will raise the issue with the relevant Rwandan authorities on the occasion of bilateral meetings. The dossier will also be put on the discussion table during the Article 8 dialogues between the European Union and Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u8	Minister, I am pleased that you continue to raise the matter bilaterally and at European Union level. I do not know whether the Investigation Bureau will indeed work neutrally and independently. We cannot work with double standards and two weights when it comes to Rwanda compared to Congo. In recent years, there has often been repeated intimidation against those who are critical of the Rwandan regime or who are being reconciled. It's called an immediate negationist. Rwanda is in a bad way in this area and we must make our critical voice heard stronger than in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u9	I fully agree with you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that at some point, when such human rights violations are observed in Rwanda, there is a need to express explicit indignation about these violations, in a bilateral relationship that must be healthy but also transparent with the Rwandan government. A former Belgian ambassador to Rwanda has made this very clear in the Dutch- and French-speaking press of our country. It is indeed time for Belgium to speak more clearly about restrictions on freedom of expression and intimidation against political opponents under Paul Kagame's regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u10	Minister, the UN Human Rights Council has been discussing the Convention on Business and Human Rights for some time, because voluntary initiatives on human rights violations and environmental pollution are not enough. The fifth session of the so-called Intergovernmental Working Group on this treaty took place in October 2019. Belgium was one of the EU countries that welcomed the text. Did we also comment on the draft text under discussion until 29 February? These contributions are crucial for the next negotiations in October 2020. It is also striking that the European Commission has no negotiating mandate and does not participate. Minister, have we communicated our comments on the draft UN Convention before the deadline? Will Belgium urge the European Commission to take part in the negotiations of the sixth session? What diplomatic means do we use to encourage other countries to participate in the negotiations on this Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u11	Madam President, I was also wondering whether Belgium had formally requested a mandate from the European Union to negotiate at the next meeting in Geneva in October 2020. I also wondered what Belgium had done at European level to push for the emergence of a common position on the content of this Treaty. I also wondered how you were associated, as soon as possible, with Belgian civil society. We know that many associations, many NGOs are working on a preliminary Belgian position on the content of this treaty, which is really very important. And finally, regarding a process at the international level, at the United Nations level, I was wondering whether your government is already working at national level on a draft law that would regulate companies operating in Belgium and/or marketing products in Belgium to ensure that they respect human rights and the environment throughout their supply chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u12	Madam Chair, the 5th session of the Intergovernmental Group on Transnational Corporations and Other Business was held in Geneva from 14 to 18 October 2019. Belgium attended these negotiations and intervened by asking questions aimed at clarifying certain aspects of the text at stake. With regard to the schedule of negotiations, Ecuador is expected to hold informal, in-depth and periodic consultations with Governments, regional and political groups, intergovernmental organizations, United Nations mechanisms, civil society and other stakeholders, before the working group meets for its 6th session, to be held from 26 to 30 October. However, due to the VOCID-19 pandemic and the inability to meet physically until at least the end of May, the first informal consultation – scheduled for April 29 – was postponed. The second consultation, which will now be the first – scheduled for 29 May – is ongoing, but will take place online. Details of access and participation in this virtual consultation will be provided in due course. It is currently difficult to estimate the impact of the VOCID-19 pandemic on the overall schedule of negotiations. Belgium has not yet submitted any comments on the draft UN Convention text. Before commenting on the various articles of the Treaties, it is first necessary to determine which aspects of the Treaty fall within the competence of the European Union, on the one hand, and which aspects fall within the competence of the Member States, on the other. The EU Member States cannot intervene in a domain of competence that would belong exclusively to the EU. As far as this division of competence is concerned, my department has in the past had several contacts with the European institutions concerned, in particular the IDO and the Commission. On several occasions, in vain for the time being, attempts were made to encourage the European authorities to carry out such an analysis of competence and to share it with the Member States. In Belgium, coordination of the national position is ensured through the CoorMulti mechanism, which is responsible for ensuring the coherence of Belgian policy. After consultation between federal and federal governments, a working group was established to analyse the draft treaty. In March, this working group continued its work and continued to analyse the text on its content, in the absence of an analysis by the European institutions on the division of competences between the European Union and the Member States. At the same time, Belgium encourages the other Member States of the European Union to do likewise and continues to ask the European Commission to carry out this analysis and to share it with its Member States. The European Commission has so far not taken a decision on the request for a negotiating mandate for which our country also pleads. Belgium will continue to advocate a strong EU commitment during the treaty negotiations within the EU. For example, at the Cohom EU Human Rights Council working group at the end of January, our country once again called for the EU to participate in the newly planned treaty negotiations, which are scheduled to take place from 26 to 30 October 2020. At the EU Foreign Affairs Ministerial Council in December 2019, our country also pointed out the need for a consolidated EU position on these treaty negotiations. My department is in constant dialogue with civil society on this issue. Civil society is not only regularly informed and consulted about the implementation of our national action plan on business and human rights, but we are also in frequent contact with the legally binding instrument, which is being negotiated in Geneva. We attach great importance to these exchanges of views, which are organised not only at the request of NGOs, trade unions and business representatives, but also regularly on our own initiative. The development of national legislation on the obligation of care for human rights is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u13	Minister, Belgium is indeed making every effort to make progress on this treaty, but COOVID-19 is a game breaker to advance the negotiations. The problem, of course, lies with a number of Member States of the European Union, which do not want to proceed with this treaty. It would be a good idea to go bilaterally with those countries to see what the bottlenecks are. Otherwise, we will continue to work with a working group without the possibility of reaching a common EU position. In any case, I would like to thank you for all the efforts that have already been made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u14	Minister, I must confess that I am rather disappointed with your answer. On the one hand, the European Union has still not received a mandate from the Member States and, on the other hand, Belgium has neither participated in nor sent a contribution to improve the content of the draft Treaty before the guidelines, to the rapporteur. This is regrettable because we are talking about a binding treaty to enforce human rights by private companies. It is really a missing element, a real gap in the international human rights framework. I believe that Belgium, as a country but also within the framework of the European Union, would have every interest in pushing not only for a domestic framework - this was the end of my question - but also for a European and international framework for human rights and business. I expect much more voluntarism in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u15	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers, which confirm what we were afraid of, namely that Belgium did not send any comments on the draft text. As my fellow environmentalist, I call for more voluntarism and a form of vigilance also in the face of the temptation that some might have to use the economic crisis and therefore the revival that will have to follow in order to lower the ambitions on this kind of stakes, which are nevertheless fundamental. I even think that the crisis demonstrates the need to go faster, stronger and further. There are now scientists who establish strong links between deforestation, for example, and the spread of viruses. It is known that deforestation issues also affect the human rights of indigenous peoples in tropical forests, for example. On behalf of my group, I call for a very strong commitment to maintain the course and speed up the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u16	Madam President, Minister, between 23 and 25 February, unprecedented violence has affected Muslim populations in the north-eastern neighborhoods of New Delhi. The testimonies gathered are cold in the back. It is about men beaten to death and thrown into open sewers, bodies spread apart and charred, bullet wounds or faces disfigured with acid - a chain of violence. The death toll would be 47, but it's hard to verify. In addition, 122 houses and 322 businesses were reportedly destroyed or burned, as well as 301 vehicles burned. These riots are part of a growing context of anti-Muslim hatred in India. In December, the Hindu Nationalist Party passed a new nationality law that regularizes refugees from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh, provided that they are not Muslims. This text has led to a wide-ranging protest against Prime Minister Modi. Re-elected in May 2019, it had already, last August, revoked the autonomy status of Indian Kashmir, a Muslim-majority region. Some observers believe that these riots were premeditated and prepared, probably encouraged by Hindu nationalist groups. In addition, several victims claim to have been directly targeted by the police and riot forces. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, expressed concern about "information of police inaction in the face of attacks". Minister, what is your analysis of the situation? Have you been able to talk to the Ambassador of India in Belgium or do you intend to do so? What are Belgium's positions on this issue within the European Union and the United Nations Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act, as well as about the risk of statelessness and the discriminatory effects these measures could have on the acquisition of nationality for Muslims in India. Non-discrimination and freedom of religion or belief are important elements of Belgian and European human rights policy. Our country has been closely following demonstrations and violence in India. The High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ms. Bachelet, also expressed her concern in that regard. With regard to riots, the police and the judiciary will have to do their work impartially. I'm hearing that the first arrest took place. It goes without saying that any appearance of incitement to religious violence is extremely dangerous and must receive a firm response from the authorities. India and the European Union are strategic partners in a changing world. Together, we must defend multilateralism based on rules and fundamental rights. For this reason, Belgium, while fully respecting India's sovereignty, raised the issue at the March session of the Human Rights Council. Our country referred to the concern of United Nations experts about the National Register of Citizens and called on India to avoid discrimination. This topic was then the subject of bilateral discussions between our embassy and the Indian authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u18	Minister, thank you. I also believe that the repeated incendiary messages of the Indian government should be condemned. These messages only further divide Indian society and present Muslims as enemies of the country with the aim of attracting Hindu votes. Such actions are totally unacceptable. It is therefore appropriate to speak of human rights violations and to condemn these acts in our bilateral relations with India.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. The situation in India is worrying. We observe an increase in the problems of respect for human rights and an increase in nationalist and religious sentiment, under the impetus of the government and its supporters. India is also an important trading partner of the European Union. It is therefore in the general interest that we send strong and repeated signals as soon as possible. Indeed, as we do with other countries, we will not be able to continue to maintain such strong trade relations with a partner that is likely to cause so many problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u20	Madam Chair, I would like to thank, once again, the staff of the House, through whom this committee can take place. Minister, my question was tabled at the end of February. Since then, the world has changed well and this issue seems to be obsolete today. However, recent statements by the Turkish authorities are worrying. Towards mid- or late February, the Turkish authorities, on the basis of an agreement that raises questions and should be reviewed by the European Union, encouraged migrants to travel to the Greek-Turkish and Turkish-Bulgarian border in an attempt to seek asylum in Europe. We will remember the scandalous images showing thousands of people crammed at the border and, above all, the equally scandalous European response. Some NGOs have denounced refoulements (push back) which, I would remind you, are illegal under international law. Some images clearly showed Greek coastguards, which led some specialists to question Frontex's role in these refoulements. I recall that this type of practice is illegal in terms of international law, particularly when reading the Geneva Convention. Minister, what was your reaction at the time to the dissemination of these images of refoulement practices? I do not remember having heard of a reaction from the Belgian authorities. What is Belgium doing to ensure compliance with the Geneva Convention? What is the nature of our country's support for Frontex? Indeed, we can see a certain opacity, a lack of transparency in the use of the budgets we grant to the latter. How much financial aid does Belgium provide? Are Belgian agents present at the Greek-Turkish border? Did they participate in the refoulements denounced by NGOs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish authorities' announcements from 28 February that they would no longer retain migrants wishing to travel to Europe have led to an influx of migrants to the Greek-Turkish border. The Greek authorities claim to have prevented 24,000 people from crossing the land border from Turkey between 29 February and 2 March, sometimes using force. The Aegean Islands, on the other hand, saw a sharp increase in the number of arrivals. Following statements by the Turkish authorities, 1,700 migrants arrived in the islands between 29 February and 2 March. Since then, the situation on the Greek-Turkish border has stabilized. The number of arrivals of migrants is decreasing mainly due to the strengthening of border controls on the Greek side and the crisis of the VOCID-19. Migrants who had regrouped from the end of March on the land border on the Turkish side were largely evacuated to other Turkish provinces. The European Union has closely monitored the situation. On 4 March, High Representative Josep Borrell visited Ankara for a series of high-level contacts. Also on 4 March, the President of the European Council Charles Michel met Turkish President Erdogan in Ankara. The latter visited Brussels on 9 March for the continuation of negotiations with Mr Michel and the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen. They decided that High Representative Borrell and the Turkish Foreign Minister would cooperate to clarify the implementation of the 2016 EU-Turkey Declaration. Some of these issues were discussed in the Extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council on 6 March. In the declaration adopted by the Council, the European Union expressed concern about the situation at the Greek-Turkish border, expressed solidarity with Greece and the other Member States and rejected any use of the migratory pressure by Turkey for political purposes. The Union expects Turkey to comply with the commitments made following the 2016 Joint Declaration. This topic was discussed again on 23 March at a video conference of the European Foreign Ministers. In addition, an extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA) was held on 4 March to discuss the situation at the external borders of the European Union with Turkey. The Ministers of the Interior adopted a declaration expressing their support not only for Greece but also for Bulgaria, Cyprus and the other Member States that might be affected by recent events, while emphasizing respect for international and European law, including in the context of declarations aimed at protecting the external borders of the European Union. The Declaration recognises the migration burden on Turkey but also condemns the use of migrants for political purposes. It calls for the implementation by Turkey of the 2016 EU-Turkey Declaration. At the operational level, it also announces a range of measures for the benefit of Greece, including the strengthening of Frontex at the Greek-Turkish border, up to 700 million financial aid for the management of migrants and borders in Greece and the activation of the European Civil Protection Mechanism to assist migrants. Belgium provided material assistance via B-FAST. With regard to respect for human rights and the right of asylum by Greece, and in particular on push back and on the principle of non-refoulement, the declaration adopted by the Ministers of the Interior and those of the JHA Council at the beginning of March clearly states that the protection of the external borders of the European Union must be carried out in accordance with international and European law, including the right of asylum and the Geneva Convention. Belgium is one of the countries that requested that this be included in the text. The implementation of the European Union-Turkey declaration is not smooth, but its validity is not called into question. It is important to keep all channels open with Ankara in order to be able to remedy the shortcomings found. Belgium supports the continuation of aid to Turkey for the reception of 4 million refugees in its territory. There is an urgent need for structural responses to the migration challenge at European level. We will examine, with the utmost attention, the Commission's proposals which it has just published on 16 April 2020 concerning its new migration pact. It is in this context that we will have to discuss, in particular, the reform of the Dublin Regulation which determines the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application. Belgium has always said that it is in favour of a reform based on the right balance between responsibility and solidarity, taking into account the objective situation of each Member State with regard to migratory flows, including secondary movements. With regard to Europe-Turkey relations, the government believes that the channels of dialogue at the highest level should remain open with Ankara, while remaining firm on its values and maintaining the existing conditions. The imposition of economic sanctions on Turkey is not on the European agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u22	Mr Minister, I thank you for this very detailed answer, which was particularly relevant to the European Union's response. I wish I could have heard you a little more about your personal opinion. You did not boast but announced that 24,000 people had been returned to the Greek-Turkish border. In fact, 24,000 people, compared to the 4 million refugees in Turkey, are not so many. You have still talked about respect for international law. I encourage you to continue to defend, in all international forums, this respect which is not the search for a fair balance. That is not your point today, but it has been in the head of other members of the government. Respect for international law should not be a balance between security and respect for individual freedom. This is a sine qua non for any economic agreement or agreement with partners. I would therefore ask you to be attentive and possibly defend investigations at the borders of the European Union, particularly in relation to Frontex. You're telling me that B-FAST is involved in these operations. We really need to pay attention to democratic control and non-violation of international law by Belgian agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u23	Madam Chair, I thank the minister for his availability and the services of the House to allow us to come to committee. Minister, alongside our national concerns, a meeting like this allows us to take a global look at the situations that must continue to be of interest to us because the international dimension is fundamental. We have talked a lot about multilateralism, but we can succeed in many operations on the basis of bilateralism that sometimes exists for a long time with some countries. This is particularly the case with the Congo. A few months ago, there was a joint mission of three ministers in the Congo: the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Trade. They laid the foundations for reviving some cooperation with the Congo. The particular climate must not lead us to neglect this axis of solidarity and partnership between Belgium and the Congo, and more generally Africa as a whole. What is the status of the follow-up to this mission? Is this possible? Has Belgium been actively involved in the work of the European Commission in redefining a European strategy for Africa? If so, to what extent are we involved? To what extent could Parliament and the federated entities be involved in this process?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u24	Mr Flahaut, this mission was part of the process of reorganising relations between Belgium and the DRC and the reopening of our Consulate General in Lubumbashi after two years of closure. The mission also set important milestones for the future of our bilateral cooperation in various areas. We must now engage in technical discussions with our Congolese partners in order to better identify needs and realize opportunities for cooperation. The mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo also allowed for a dialogue at the highest political level with our Congolese partner on the fulfilment of the promises made to the Congolese people during and after the electoral campaign. The governance, human rights situation, climate and security-related issues in the eastern part of the country were discussed. It is clear that we will continue to monitor developments in these areas closely and that our political dialogue will continue at different levels, always in a spirit of partnership. Our Embassy in Kinshasa and my services in Brussels work closely with other actors, including the federated entities, who are involved in the various aspects of our partnership with the DRC. As regards relations between the European Union and the African Union, this topic was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on 17 February 2020. The Member States of the European Union have not been formally involved in the drafting process of the joint communication from the European Commission and the High Representative and Vice-President for a comprehensive strategy with Africa, which was published on 9 March. Nevertheless, Belgium has made sure to proactively communicate and defend its priorities vis-à-vis the African continent with the European institutions. I therefore welcome the fact that an explicit reference to the Great Lakes region has been included in the document published by the Commission. As you know, this region is a priority both bilaterally and as part of our European action. Priority themes have been advocated and are generally reflected in the document. In particular, our country is calling for more political exchanges with our African partners. Such approaches are essential to the political ownership of our partnership by African countries and are therefore a prerequisite for its success. Joint defence of multilateralism is also one of our priorities. In addition, we emphasized the positive role that diasporas could play in the development of this partnership. The Member States of the European Union are invited to formally communicate their position through the adoption of the European Council conclusions – tabled after a future Foreign Affairs Council – on the basis of this joint communication, which sets the stage for a new global strategy with Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. I don't think we should be too late. Secondly, it is to be feared that the European Union will once again enshrine certain proposals in an incomprehensible bureaucracy. I therefore believe that we must strengthen our vigilance and demonstrate that our bilateralism can deliver tangible and, above all, human results for this partnership. Finally, I would like to recall Parliament's readiness to work alongside you in this partnership with the Congo and, more generally, Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u26	Mr Minister, since the late 1990s, the United States has adopted and applied anti-corruption legislation all over the world, except that these laws and their extraterritorial character are often used for economic and commercial warfare purposes. Many European companies have been pursued on this basis. Indeed, the US judicial administration interprets its competences very widely in order to prosecute foreign companies or nationals. For example, the use of the dollar in a transaction is sufficient to meet the criterion of attachment to the jurisdiction of their jurisdiction or the use of a computer server or e-mail that would be hosted in the United States. Looking at the application of the FCPA, we see that 14 European companies and only 5 American companies have already been subject to heavy sanctions between 2008 and 2018. For the same period, European companies bore more than 60% or, according to some sources, 70% of the fines. In France, the National Assembly published a report on this subject in June 2019. The rapporteur is quite clear when he says that "the main aim of the sanctions imposed seems to be to weaken foreign companies in international competition". He added that "the prosecution seems to be economically motivated and the targets chosen on purpose, only large European and Asian companies in direct competition with American companies being targeted". This extraterritorial dimension of U.S. legislation raises questions about the legitimacy of these application criteria, when ties with the U.S. are so tenuous. Minister, are you aware of any cases where companies established in Belgium have been pursued in recent years through the criterion of territorial applicability of American law? Do you not think that this extraterritoriality can have a negative impact on European companies and particularly on Belgian companies? Is this a matter for Belgium within the WTO or the institutions of the European Union. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u27	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, I am not aware of an investigation or judicial prosecution of a Belgian company by the American authorities via the criterion of territorial applicability of American law. An extensible extraterritorial application of US regulation can have a negative impact on European companies. The impact can be financial (finish or regulation) and economic (access to the US market, restriction of entry). Belgian companies could experience this impact to the same extent as companies in other EU Member States. A harmonised European response to this question in the WTO is obviously preferable. An example of this response is European Union Regulation 2271/96, known as the "blocking law", which explicitly opposes the extraterritorial effect of US restrictive measures against Cuba and Iran. This regulation, which was activated in 2018, prohibits European actors from complying with these US sanctions by prohibiting them from cooperating with the US authorities and allowing them to seek compensation in the event of a conviction by the US courts. Another example is INSTEX, a payment mechanism that aims to facilitate trade between Iran and Europe. INSTEX was created by France, Germany and the United Kingdom, joined by other European states, including Belgium. This problem is regularly discussed at European level, with the Member States, but also with the United States. Belgium fully supports the European approach and position in this regard. The European way is currently preferred over that of the WTO.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u28	Minister, thank you for these answers and clarifications. This is really an important subject, which I discovered when I read a book from a former Alstom executive, the French company. He was targeted because he belonged to the company, but he was not concerned about the corruption that the US administration accused him of. Over the course of the file, it was realized that the objective was indeed to dismantle Alstom in order to encourage the purchase of some of its components by General Motors. There is really an economic war issue behind these steps, and a sovereignty issue for European countries and their companies. I think we really need to be vigilant. I will examine, perhaps by reproducing the written text of your reply, the legal references that you have given me. Perhaps I will come back to you in this committee to go into the matter. There is a sovereignty issue that we must not overlook in the current context of world development and multilateralism, which, as you know, is particularly worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u29	Madam President, Minister, while the response to the VOCID-19 epidemic rightly occupies a large part of the international debate, international developments and the monitoring of different processes are obviously not stopping, as we have seen from the questions already asked or to be asked. Thus, I was able to read in the press that the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) produced, a few days ago, an overwhelming report on Syria. Investigators have established that the Syrian army uses chemical weapons against its population, in violation of all international rules. The charge has long been made by non-governmental organizations and is now established by an international organization. If I have been able to read the press release of our representation in the Security Council, could you, Minister, indicate to me the position that our country has taken in this context? More comprehensively, what follow-up are we following up on the situation in Syria and on the search for a long-term solution, of which impunity for these facts cannot, of course, be part?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u30	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, by the way, I would like to say "bravo" for your work in the Huy-Waremme district in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis. The first report of the OPCW investigation and identification team did confirm that the Syrian army had used chemical weapons against the population. This report establishes that the perpetrators of the acts committed in Syria in March 2017 belong to units of the Syrian regime's air force. The publication of this report is an important step in the fight against impunity for the perpetrators of these crimes. Belgium will assume its responsibilities in this regard. Above all, we must emphasize the professionalism of the OPCW, while some systematically try to discredit its work through unworthy disinformation campaigns. Within the OPCW itself, and provided a majority emerges, pressure can be exerted on Syria, which is a State party to the Chemical Weapons Convention. Secondly, as a member of the Security Council, Belgium will support any initiative aimed at combating impunity. At EU level, a specific sanctions regime for the use of chemical weapons was put in place in 2018 and could be used in this case. Finally, Belgium generally supports other initiatives in this area in Syria, including through considerable funding and a United Nations mechanism to collect evidence of any war crimes committed. As far as the long-term solution is concerned, it must be based on the reconciliation of the different population groups. The fight against impunity and criminal responsibility were crucial in that regard. Sustainable peace cannot be achieved without a United Nations-supervised process that includes all relevant actors in the Security Council. Our country will contribute to this by seeking consensus among all parties concerned through United Nations mediation. I remain committed to continuing to work with the international community to end the tragedy in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u31	Minister, thank you for your kind word. I'll answer you the same. [[...]] Having said that, I thank you for being clear about your position. You said that Belgium would be on the side of those who would call for the fight against impunity. That's great news. Both at the level of the Security Council and at the level of the European Union, (...) Europe financed United Nations funds for the investigation of crimes related to these aspects. Similarly, you said that there have been specific sanctions at European level since 2018. I therefore encourage you to continue on this path. These are appalling crimes committed against the civilian population. That is quite regrettable and lamentable. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u32	Minister, the Hong Kong police conducted a large-scale operation a few days ago against leaders of the pro-democracy movement. During the event, 14 people were arrested for their support or participation in the immense events of 2019. Journalists and former parliamentarians, among others, have been deprived of their liberty in order to be convicted of a crime. According to the pro-democracy parliamentarian Claudia Mo, the local government "tends with all its forces to put in place a reign of terror". Minister, these arrests are of particular concern and violate all universal principles and rights. Yet, unfortunately, they are only the continuation of other actions already undertaken by the regime in place. What is your view of this situation? Have any action been taken, together with other EU Member States, in response to the repression that has been shaking Hong Kong for several weeks? In concrete terms, what levers do we currently have to influence this situation? Are further discussions on this issue on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u33	Minister, I already questioned your predecessor in October last year about the continuing unrest in Hong Kong and China's role in it. We are now a small year further but a solution is apparently far from in sight. Now that the world has been distracted by the corona outbreak, Beijing seems to see its chance to crush the pro-democratic protests once and for all. Mr De Maegd has already given us the details, and I am going to ask my questions immediately. What official position does the Belgian Government take on this matter? What steps are the government and our diplomacy taking to address and condemn the continuing unrest in Hong Kong? In what way do we engage in consultation with other EU countries? Anything come out of that yet? What can Belgium do to safeguard democracy, respect for human rights and our economic interests in Hong Kong?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u34	Madam President, Mr De Maegd and Mrs Ponthier, since the beginning of the political crisis in Hong Kong in June 2019, my services have been closely following developments in cooperation with our consulate-general on the spot and with the competent bodies of the European Union. In response to the massive demonstrations of the 2019 democratic movement in the shadow of the current coronavirus crisis, China has taken a number of steps towards a tougher attitude towards Hong Kong in recent months. That evolution puts further pressure on one country, two systems. The gradual erosion of Hong Kong's autonomy and the reduction of its policy space are real. The European Union remains the most effective channel for expressing our position with greater weight, in particular through statements calling for de-escalation, dialogue and respect for fundamental freedoms, as well as the maintenance of Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy and the rule of law. The situation in Hong Kong is regularly discussed in the Council. In response to the recent arrest of 15 leaders of the protest movement, the European Union delegation responded with Belgian support in the local English-speaking press in Hong Kong. The need for an in-depth investigation and the importance of the independence of the judicial system were underlined once again. At the bilateral level, Belgium transmitted the same messages during contacts with the Hong Kong and Chinese authorities, including at the highest level, in particular with regard to consultation with civil society. Despite the European and other like-minded initiatives, there has been no way out of the crisis and no response to deep public discontent. Apart from the repeal of the contested extradition bill on 23 October, the Honkong Chief Executive did not respond to the other demands of the demonstrators. Despite the Chief Executive's promise, no broad consultation was organised with civil society and the various sectors of the population. Our main lever is economic in nature. It is mainly due to respect for the rule of law and the independence of the Hong Kong judiciary that some 2000 European companies have chosen Hong Kong as their business hub. Hong Kong's economic prosperity therefore largely depends on maintaining its current status. The European Union could also play a more concrete positive role in the exchange of expertise on crisis management and civil society dialogue. We must remain critical, but megaphone diplomacy would be counterproductive. The Hong Kong dossier is a sensitive political issue linked to China's sovereignty, which condemns any foreign interference in its internal affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, I hear the messages sent by Belgium and Europe to the Chinese authorities trying to calm the game. Diplomatic action will necessarily need to be strengthened in the coming weeks and months to encourage, in any case, an independent investigation. You're talking about Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy. It is true that the form "a State – two systems" is clearly at risk, but Chinese sovereignty – you are right – makes the subject particularly delicate. Two thousand companies – you recalled – from Europe have set up their hub in Hong Kong. I believe that, in view of the events taking place there, there is indeed a fear that more and more European companies will leave Hong Kong. Here too, care must be taken to maintain a certain balance. I encourage you, Minister, to continue to hold talks with Beijing on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I would particularly like to ask you and the government to show more decisiveness and to strongly condemn the outright terror that the Chinese elite exerts on its own people through the leadership in Hong Kong, even with the threat of military repression, and to convince other partners, such as the EU, to do the same, for various reasons. First of all, for economic reasons. As you yourself have said, many European and also Flemish businessmen face the uncertain atmosphere, and hence the unstable business environment on the ground, with great distrust. They also ask the Belgian Government for a clear position. It is also, of course, a matter of respecting human rights. We see a call for more democracy being made. The fight against the Communist interference of Mainland China, a battle completely abused by that regime in full corona crisis, deserves our support. The resistance of the demonstrators, often younger people, is such that they will persist and will not give up the fight. I will continue to follow up on this issue and hope you will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u37	Mr Minister, my question concerns the forest fires that have occurred around the Chernobyl plant, the scene of the worst nuclear accident in Europe's history. I have, of course, asked a question about the monitoring of radioactivity in Belgian territory, but I am also very concerned about the local populations who live near the plant and who are in some way punished a third time. First, they are very poor populations due to chronic contamination of their cesium 137 diet. Then they live, like us, the contagion of the coronavirus and, finally, they are now experiencing an increase in radioactivity in their country. Mr Minister, cannot an emergency aid programme be set up at European level for these local populations to evacuate children and send uncontaminated food, vitamins, water and milk and medical protection equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u38	Mr Cogolati, at this stage the Ukrainian authorities have not made any requests for aid. They believe that they can control the situation in the exclusion zone of Chernobyl, an area by definition uninhabited. On the other hand, we must pay attention to the situation of the villages close to the exclusion zone: Koroot (?), Rassokha, Kryva, Oran and Rudky in particular. The evacuation of these villages was not mentioned by the Ukrainian government or local authorities. In addition to the risk of radiation, the fires destroyed several nearby houses and crops. The unusual wind and drought have complicated the task of Ukrainian firefighters. On 14 April, the local authorities claimed to have controlled the fires. However, the strong winds of April 16 rekindled the brooding fires. Three fixed-wing aircraft and three helicopters are permanently deployed over the exclusion zone. Fires cover not only the northern part of the Kiev region where the Chernobyl zone is located, but also the neighbouring Zhytomyr region. A total of 2,300 emergency firefighters and 460 vehicles are involved in firefighting in the Kiev and Zhytomyr regions. In his statement of 22 April, the Prime Minister of Ukraine stated that the situation was now normal. Still in his view, the fears that the fire would reach the Chernobyl-covered reactor were ruled out. The Embassy of Belgium in Ukraine does not have a radioactive measuring station. Our ambassador and his team are in contact with colleagues from the embassies of France and Germany who have this tool. The rate of radiation in Kiev and its surroundings does not exceed the natural level. Due to the confinement following the VOCID-19, all embassies refer to outside the capital, Ukrainian measuring stations in principle reassuring. An independent European international investigation into the radiological risks of these fires can only be carried out in agreement with the Ukrainian authorities. If they invite Belgium to do so, it will of course examine the possibility of making available its expertise and material assistance, particularly for the food chain and/or water. We are already contributing to the decontamination of the Chernobyl nuclear site. Indeed, our country grants aid to the Belgian company Tecnubel, which supplies robots working in the arch covering the nuclear reactor. An expert from this company regularly travels to Ukraine and keeps in touch with our embassy in Kiev. If the Ukrainian authorities so wish, we could consider further collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u39	Mr Minister, it seems to me essential to support the establishment of an independent European international investigation into the radiological effects of these fires in the area of the explosion, but also in its surroundings, since a radioactive cloud would not stop at the Ukrainian borders. For this reason, it is important to monitor the levels of radioactivity at source. For example, the German and French embassies have installed a radioactive measuring station on their territory. It seems to me that the Belgian diplomatic mission could do the same, in order to control the problem at source and, if necessary, to sound the alarm long enough in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u40	Minister, the elections in Burundi are approaching. The campaign officially started yesterday. On 18 February, in committee, you told us that the objective of all your efforts has always been to have free and inclusive elections in May, even though, I quote, "we are aware of the many obstacles on this path. A good indicator will be the registration process for candidates, which is scheduled to begin on 25 February next." It is now known that this process led to the registration of seven applications. Since then, we have learned that the Burundian authorities informed their embassies on 15 April of the impossibility of holding elections for Burundians living abroad, explaining that the measures taken to combat VOCID-19 do not allow elections to be held in many countries. This decision thus de facto deprives several thousand Burundians of their right to vote, including precisely a significant share of the opposition to the CNDD-FDD. Amnesty International also alerts us to persistent intimidation by members of the ruling Youth League, in particular, but not only. My questions are therefore as follows. What about the process of registering candidates in elections? Does it allow for truly free and inclusive elections? What is your position in the face of the Burundian government's decision to prohibit their nationals abroad from voting? Does this change your position on the appropriateness of postponing the elections? More broadly, how do you continue to monitor this process? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u41	Madam President, Minister, many things have just been said, I am not going to repeat them. Clearly, what is the information today about the possible organisation of these elections in a particular context? Secondly, what can we do at Belgian level bilaterally, particularly at European level and at the level of international organisations interested in the elections in Burundi? Finally, Burundi is a partner country for cooperation. There has probably been a consultation between you and the Minister for Cooperation. To what extent can a certain stimulus be organized? The doors are still tightly closed at the moment. Little precision for Mr Cogolati: For many years, the Defence welcomed children from Chernobyl during the holidays to allow them to breathe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u42	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, Mr Flahaut, we are following the situation in Burundi very closely. Our embassy on site is very dynamic. Despite a difficult environment, we begin the last straight line before the elections. There are indeed signs of concern. I am thinking in particular of the violent repression against the main opposition party, the CNL, and the attacks on freedom of the press. The climate of violence against opponents can degenerate into widespread violence on the day of the vote because CNDD activists will hardly accept seven more years of repression if the CNDD candidate wins. As for violations of freedom of the press, they are in addition to the muzzling of civil society in general. However, the press and civil society have a crucial role to play in ensuring the regularity of elections. We must not forget that observation of the elections will be very limited. At the international level, only an observer mission from the East African Community is currently planned. The authorities have refused any European or American observer mission. We must therefore prepare for all eventualities. I also welcome the excellent coordination with our European colleagues on this subject. Indeed, we have already studied, with our partners, the main scenarios for the elections, and we have defined elements of common language on the electoral process. All this must, of course, be adapted in the light of the crisis of the coronavirus, even if the epidemic seems, for the moment, to be limited to Burundi. Of course, the figures provided by the authorities, which have long denied the presence of the virus in Burundi, are still subject to bail. But the evolution of the epidemic in Africa is, for the time being, slower than expected. My services in Brussels and our embassy in Bujumbura are in regular contact with European colleagues to reflect on the initiatives we could take and the messages we will have to spread after the vote. It is important, in this context, to keep the channels of communication open by the authorities; they are not completely closed to dialogue with Europeans. After the elections, we will begin discussions on Rule 96. Any exit is conditional on the smooth conduct of the electoral process and the initiatives that the next authorities will take to improve the situation in terms of human rights and political openness. At the United Nations level, we have always advocated for the question of Burundi to remain on the agenda of the Security Council. Several briefings were organized. UN approaches are still being considered. But unanimity is more difficult to achieve at this level than at European level. In addition, the United Nations Special Envoy for Burundi resigned several months ago without being replaced and the United Nations was kept out of the electoral process by the Burundian authorities. Finally, I stress the importance of consultation with African partners. The African Union has human rights observers on the ground, a mission financed by the European Union, and broadly shares European concerns about the situation in Burundi. With regard to development cooperation, mentioned by Mr Flahaut, the services concerned regularly consulted on the situation in Burundi, particularly at interdepartmental meetings in the presence of representatives of the cabinets. If necessary, a consultation with my colleague from Development Cooperation will take place. Mrs de Laveleye asks me the question of the registration of candidates. This was indeed an important step in the process. With regard to the presidential elections, six out of ten candidates were accepted by CENI, but the Constitutional Court validated a seventh after appeal. This is the case of the former President of the Republic Ndayizeye, candidate of Kira-Burundi, who is the emanation of the opposition coalition in exile. Similarly, CENI had refused all Kira-Burundi's candidates to the legislature, but the Constitutional Court finally validated lists in five out of eighteen provinces. This relative success of appeals to the Constitutional Court shows that the electoral process is not fully managed by the arbitrariness. However, the decision of the Burundian authorities to deprive the large number of Burundians living in exile from voting certainly undermines the credibility of these elections. The vote could very well have been organised with social distancing measures. A significant proportion of the Burundian people will therefore not be able to participate in elections that are decisive for the future of the country. Does this justify the postponement of the elections? The problem is to know how long they're being postponed. We do not know when the Coronavirus crisis will stop and the current Burundian institutions will cease to be legitimate this summer. It is up to the Burundian authorities to take the decision, but for the moment they seem determined to hold elections on 20 May 2020 despite the health risks. As I speak to you, the official campaign has begun. We hope that this stage of the electoral process will be peaceful and that the rights of the opposition, the press and civil society will be respected. It is also in the light of these elements that we will be able to assess the validity of these elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u43	Minister, thank you. You complete your detailed answer by saying that you hope that the process will proceed as best you can. However, all indicators show that this will not be the case. We can already evaluate it today. I therefore remain somewhat dissatisfied with the position Belgium can take at the diplomatic level in order to express its strong position vis-à-vis this masquerade. I think we can use that word to qualify the current elections in Burundi. I would have liked you to take an even stronger position in your relations with the Embassy of Burundi. I am very concerned that a large part of the diaspora cannot vote and I do not have the impression that there has been a strong diplomatic response on this subject. Minister, I hope you can work on this dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would add that parliamentary diplomacy can also play a role in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u45	Mr. Minister, Mr. Ali Aarrass was released on 2 April after 12 years of detention in Morocco and very serious human rights violations, including acts of torture, which led the UN Human Rights Committee in August 2014 to find a violation of article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which prohibits torture. Minister, my question is quite simple. Given the dangers to the physical integrity and the exceptional situation of our national, who has left 12 years of particularly difficult and trying detention, could a repatriation for humanitarian reasons in Belgium be organised for Mr Ali Aarrass?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u46	Madam President, I did not see Mr Boukili. I don't think he's here. Mr Cogolati, Mr Aarrass's candidacy for repatriation has been analysed on the basis of the criteria set out several times, among others here in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In the meantime, we have transmitted the list of candidates agreed on the basis of these criteria to the Moroccan authority which will allow the departure, as agreed between the two parties. The name of Mr Aarrass is on the list transmitted by Belgium to the Moroccan authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u47	Madam President, I welcome the Minister's response. I do believe that after 12 years of detention and serious human rights violations, it is time for him to be able to find his relatives in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u48	Last week, Minister, you said that 30 repatriation flights had been carried out until then. Not only does there continue to be a great demand for repatriation to Belgium; expats and their families also ask for repatriation from Belgium to the place of employment abroad. Expats and/or resident Belgians abroad would not have been contacted by the Foreign Affairs Office for repatriation to Belgium. Is it true that expats and/or resident Belgians abroad were not eligible and still not and not even contacted by the embassy or consulate regarding repatriation? Is it true that the registration on the Travellers Online platform only works in one direction, so for a repatriation to Belgium, but never in the opposite direction? Is it true that there are questions from expats and/or their family to leave abroad, especially to their place of employment and residence? In a specific case, the wife of an expat is waiting for a flight to her husband in Tunisia after medical treatment in Belgium. Because of COVID-19, her flight was cancelled, initially without a view of a flight to her husband. Yesterday, the expat received an e-mail from the Belgian embassy in Tunis stating that a commercial flight was scheduled for Tunis..................................................................................................................................................................... So the wife can finally be reunited with her husband. In general, could it not have been better to answer such questions, when empty aircraft left for and from the repatriation country, taking all safety and health measures into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u49	Mr Minister, last week you indicated in committee that around 4,000 Belgians and rightholders were still stranded abroad, most of them in Morocco, Australia, New Zealand, Algeria and Spain. You also provided a great deal of information about the specific situation in Morocco and indicated that once the lists of persons to be repatriated were verified, they would be transmitted to the Moroccan authorities, to which it would be for them to be validated in whole or in part. A few days ago, the press reported statements by the Moroccan authorities on the "behaviour" of our country in managing these repatriations. Minister, can you take stock of the situation? Do you have any new information about the situation on the spot and the organisation of repatriation flights from Morocco, Burundi and other countries where Belgians are still blocked today? We learned that a flight took off from Morocco to the Netherlands on Sunday night. A form of impatience begins to appear (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u50	We will come back to the question of repatriation from Morocco later in the sitting. I suspect that the question will now be answered more generally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u51	Madam President, it is indeed a more general response that will be communicated to Mrs Samyn and Mr M. Ben Achour. Belgians stranded abroad who must be brought back to Belgium are the target group for each repatriation flight. Those entitled to a residence permit are on the second line for these organized flights. In the event that there are not enough Belgians to fill a flight, the remaining places are offered to European nationals in the framework of European solidarity. Belgians residing abroad have not been repatriated in a spirit of combating the spread of the virus. The command'stay in your barn' also applies if you are abroad. For stranded Belgians it is a completely different matter. They need a chance to come home. Many questions from Belgian expats or foreigners come in daily on the call centre and on the Facebook chat of the FPS Foreign Affairs. In this case, the general prohibition on non-essential travel issued by the Government applies. For essential travel we always look at the foreign measures in force and advise the Belgians on what is possible, often via our own transport. The repatriation flights bear the hallmark of the ferry flight, which means that the outward flight must be empty. That was so determined by the aviation authorities. In addition, given the limited opening hours of Zaventem airport, it was in many cases virtually impossible to put people on a outward flight. On the question of Mr. Ben Achour, for the part concerning Morocco, I refer to my answer to the other two questions. For Burundi, a solution has been found for several Belgians thanks to European flights. As soon as the country cancelled the ban on binationals, a delegation from Burundi with another European nationality was received at the Belgian Embassy in Bujumbura. As soon as possible, a solution will be offered to these individuals. In addition, four flights were organized last week: one flight from Tenerife, one flight from Peru and Ecuador, one flight from Cameroon and Ghana and one flight from Algeria. In total, thanks to the work of the FPS Foreign Affairs Office, more than 6,500 Belgians from abroad were repatriated, and I did not take into account the efforts to facilitate flights and the 2,000 Belgians returning home via the EU flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u52	Mr Minister, with regard to the repatriation of Belgians from abroad, I am somewhat shocked that I refer to the reports in the media and in Parliament, which make a difference between the repatriation of Belgo-Moroccans and the repatriation of Belgians in the rest of the world. Meanwhile, we are six weeks later and thousands of compatriots are still waiting fruitless when they can go home. Foreign Affairs sends all too often stranded travellers from the locker to the wall under the pretext that flights would indeed depart from the destination. Indeed, the airlines still offer flights and then cancel them. Let me give you an example of a specific case, from the dozens of cases that people report to me. Travelers were supposed to fly from Alicante to Zaventem on 12 May, but the flight was cancelled yesterday. Why can the FPS Foreign Affairs, in consultation with the airlines that do not maintain and plan flights as repatriation flights, of course in accordance with all safety regulations. The flight doesn't take place for 14 days. Then there is plenty of time to plan it. Communication with the expats is not optimal either. It is incomprehensible that expats and resident Belgians abroad were not eligible for repatriation and were not even contacted by the Belgian embassy or consulate. An expat in Tunisia was referred by the FPS Foreign Affairs Office to the Consulate of Tunisia in Brussels. The expat was sent into the reeds with a skeleton, without any kind of perspective. In any case, the people of dual Tunisian-Belgian nationality are given absolute priority. It is even more incomprehensible that empty aircraft have left Belgium for the country of repatriation. The expats and their families could have used this to go to their country of employment or join their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u53	Mr Minister, I am sorry, but the interpreter is not telling us how to hear you, I did not understand your answer about the situation in Morocco, in particular. I do not know whether you have given any details on the follow-up and development of the procedure, including perhaps details of the timing, the time frame for the organization of future repatriation flights. I also did not hear you - but it will certainly come later - about the Moroccan Minister's statements on cooperation with Morocco. I'm having trouble calibrating my line, and I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u54	The answer will follow later. There are four more questions about Morocco. The minister said that the more specific answer about Morocco would be given in the answers to the questions that followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u55	Madam President, what about the timing of the implementation of the follow-up procedure? Has the Minister been able to respond to this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u56	No, he said the answer would come later. For the time being, his answer was more general.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u58	Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u59	Minister, my question had already been announced, what gave you time to think, but in recent days the question has become increasingly important. We have already talked about the fact that there has been a lot of criticism of the WTO in recent times, with the main result that the United States has withdrawn its contribution to the WTO. However, in the light of the global evolution of the coronavirus, it is also emphasised that the WHO as an organisation has too few keys to manage and manage a pandemic like this very early. The WTO's guidelines should be followed in such a way that the global impact is reduced very quickly, while its mandate is now limited to delivering opinions and directives of a non-binding nature. For example, we could make it legally possible for no country to hide information about a deadly virus, which is a discussion that we will certainly continue to have about this pandemic. A second point is the under-financing of the WHO. Her budget is consistent with the US defence budget for a day and a half. That is very little for the regulator of global health. The rigid ear tags given by the donor states make it particularly difficult to respond flexibly, quickly and prematurely to a crisis. Finally, the WHO should be able to play a leading and coordinating role in drawing up protocols for the production and distribution of essential medical material and protection, but also medicines such as vaccines. Germany is now calling for regulation of the pharmaceutical market through a multi-country agreement. That is very recent, but is a good example of this. I have the following questions, Minister. What is the position of the Belgian Government as a member of the WHO on the debates cited on more binding directives, early intervention and regulation of the market in protective equipment and medicines, and on the possible strengthening of the mandate and financing of the WHO? Are you prepared to urge the US at EU level to maintain their support for the WTO, because a global regulator is needed? Have European or other initiatives already been taken to this end? If so, what was the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u60	Madam President, Mr Crombez, I share your concern about the limitations facing the WTO in its response to this crisis. In this context, I refer to the Belgian support for the joint initiative of the EU Member States for a resolution on COVID-19 in view of the 73rd World Health Assembly, the WHO decision-making body, scheduled for May. This resolution is currently under negotiation. The Member States wish to express their support for the WTO in this way. The resolution would explicitly call on the WHO to develop a framework to ensure fair distribution of affordable vaccines. The WTO would also be asked to draw up a list of essential medical material, which could serve, for example, more binding recommendations on export bans. The EU therefore clearly has a common ambition to strengthen the leadership and coordinating role of the WTO. Like Belgium, the High Representative for European Foreign Policy, Josep Borrell Fontelles, expresses his deep regret at the US decision to suspend their contribution. He states that there are no reasons to condone such a step and that this crisis, which knows no borders, can only be overcome by cooperation. Our country is in favour of joint EU action on this issue. Belgium agrees with the above-mentioned initiative for an EU resolution and will also support future initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u61	Madam President, Minister, two elements of reply. The first concerns the Belgian position. That is why I am asking questions about this and will continue to ask in the coming weeks in the eyes of the Assembly of May. Belgium should and should be very strong. We are a European and a world hub and the European capital. I believe that it must be a clear matter that, in the event of a pandemic, the WTO should be able to issue binding directives fairly quickly, and Belgium must make a very clear statement on this matter. Secondly, you are talking about the framework for medicines and medical equipment, which is extremely urgent. If there is any discussion now about the WTO framework to do so, then it seems to me that it is slow. I would like you and the government to insist that this be introduced very quickly. Germany's call is much clearer and shows the need. I would ask the Belgian Government to support Germany's call to regulate the prices and trade of medicines across countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u62	Minister, I will also go back to this agreement reached on 20 April between Benjamin Netanyahu's Likud and Benny Gantz's Blue White Party for the formation of a "national emergency" government, to which yesterday – and I regret it – the Labour Party joined. During the first six months, its action must be limited to managing the epidemic and its economic consequences. A crucial exception, however, is the decision to annex the Jordan Valley and part of the West Bank, which could become effective in the coming months. Under the terms of the agreement, the project can be reviewed by the government and the Knesset as early as July, and any annexation will have to be approved by the US administration. In short, we could witness the endorsement of the "peace plan" presented by Donald Trump last January, which we have already discussed. This would be – and I am not teaching you anything – a pure and simple violation of all the rules of international law as well as a long series of United Nations Security Council resolutions, beginning with resolution 2334 of 2016. This would sign the end of what has been called the "peace process". A few hours after the announcement of the agreement, the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority was concerned that "the formation of an Israeli government annexation" does not mean the end of the two-state solution and the definitive dismantling of the rights of the Palestinian people. Mr Minister, before the House, on 30 January you said that unilateral annexation projects were illegal and that Belgium would remind the European Union and the Security Council of "the primacy of international law and the need to encourage the resumption of credible negotiations". So, Mr. Minister, have you been able to discuss this matter with the Israeli authorities and, in particular, with the new Israeli Foreign Minister? What actions will Belgium take within the European and United Nations framework to prevent this annexation from becoming a reality? Could we, moreover, include this item on the agenda of the Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u63	Madam President, Minister, I am also very concerned about the announcement made by the two main members of the new Israeli government, which would normally focus on the VOCID-19 crisis. They provide for a 30 per cent annexation of the West Bank, which mainly covers Area C, including the Jordan Valley, where agricultural settlements export products to Europe on a daily basis. I am thinking in particular of potatoes, when our farmers find it difficult to dispose of their stocks. I wanted to focus on the Jordan Valley, which is included in the annexation plan. I also recall the hearings that took place in this committee and that were requested by various actors on this issue of settlement products. They recalled that labelling was complicated and that a policy of banning colony products should be considered. Minister, to get back to the main point, what are your reactions to this announcement? What European response will you encourage? Do you plan to convene Israel's ambassador to Belgium, possibly by videoconference? I refer to a statement by your predecessor in 2014, which referred to the idea of recognizing Palestine at the right time. For us ecologists, the right time was a long time ago. This is all the more so today. Are you in favour of a rapid recognition of Palestine within its 1967 borders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u64	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, I share your concern about the recent statements by Benjamin Netanyahu and Benny Gantz following the announcement of their agreement on the formation of a unitary government. Their joint declaration draws attention to the possible annexation of certain parts of the Palestinian territories. Such annexation is not only a serious violation of international law, including the relevant UN Security Council Resolution. I also supported the statement made by the High Representative on 23 April following the agreement on the formation of the unity government. Such a decision has far-reaching consequences in various areas: legal, political, security, humanitarian and economic. If the new Israeli Government were to effectively annex entire parts of the West Bank, that would jeopardize a possible resumption of peace negotiations and would undermine the rights of the Palestinians. One important aspect concerns our action on this issue at the multilateral level, as mentioned by Mr. Ben Achour and Mr. From Vriendt. As such, we are working with other European Union Member States with the same sensitivity on this issue, in order to encourage debate in the Council of the European Union on this issue. Together with our European partners, we wish to reflect on ways to deter the new Israeli Government from taking such measures, which would further undermine the Middle East peace process. In addition to the focus on prevention, this debate should also focus on options for responses from the European Union in case of effective annexations. As regards the United Nations, during the recent open debate in the Security Council on the Middle East on 23 April, Belgium expressed its concern about these recent declarations. Our country will continue to argue within the United Nations Security Council for the observance of international rights and the agreed parameters in order to resolve this conflict peacefully. It is therefore important to create an environment that will allow all international and multilateral efforts to provide sufficient oxygen to find a fair, widely supported and sustainable solution. Our country calls on the international community to take a clear position on this issue. As has been said on several occasions, I and my services will not fail to make our position known during bilateral meetings and approaches with our Israeli interlocutors. On the other hand, my colleagues are also in close contact with the Palestinian representatives, to whom we have recently reiterated that the Belgian position, in favour of a two-State solution and in accordance with international law, has therefore not changed. Mr Moutquin, as regards the recognition of the Palestinian State, you know Belgium's position of principle on the subject. This would be a significant step that must be carefully weighed in terms of the consequences, impact on the ground and the resolution of the conflict. This issue needs to be discussed closely with our European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You share our concern and indignation, but it is important that we do not wait until it is too late. I think it is wise to send a diplomatic signal to Israel now, at the moment, so that their diplomatic margin to move on to annexation of the West Bank will be reduced. I understand that consultations are taking place, both at the level of the European Union and at the level of the United Nations. I also understand that the European Union is considering giving a number of answers, should it come to that. Those answers should certainly include sanctions, for example a ban on imports of products from illegal settlements. However, Belgium must also take steps bilaterally. I did not hear you say that you convoke the Israeli ambassador in our country to give that message at bilateral level, to warn him that this act would go far too far, that this would run counter to international law and that it would also worsen the human rights situation of the Palestinians. It could be the death zone for stability in the Middle East and stability in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Minister, I would like to ask you to send that message to the Israeli Ambassador on a bilateral basis. I would ask you to respond to that, since that element was not in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u66	Minister, thank you. We are facing a health crisis and a huge economic crisis. So necessarily, and that is legitimate, the focus is on managing this crisis and its consequences. Meanwhile, terrible things are happening in Israel. Despite the crisis, we have no right not to see it and we cannot ignore it. I repeat, this broad coalition of annexation – let's call it that! – from the Palestinian territories, it is a sort of ultimate violation of international law. It is not a compromise, it is the end of a negotiated two-State solution and it is therefore the pure and simple end of what has been called the "peace process". It's very serious. It is a historic turning point that Israel is about to take, and with it, the history of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In relation to this, European diplomacy, at the impetus of Belgium – I hope – must prepare for a change of attitude. It will soon no longer be possible to settle for the old, somewhat lukewarm calls for restraint and a peaceful negotiated solution. There will no longer be any sense in maintaining these old diplomatic pontiffs as history accelerates to this point and the fundamental paradigms of conflict evolve so fundamentally. I make it clear, Minister, that seems to me to be inescapable from now on. We will have to prepare ourselves to tighten our positions and to increase pressure on the Palestinian authorities because it is clear that, given the evolution of Israeli positions in recent years, the European strategy ends in fiasco. Strong measures will therefore have to be taken that go beyond expressions. It will be necessary to consider sanctions, fully aware that the ban on products from the colonies or territories annexed in practice – as we have been shown by hearings – is very difficult. It will be necessary to broaden the arsenal of possibilities to mark our very strong and strong opposition to this destructive policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u67	Madam Chair, I just wanted to give Mr. Minister the opportunity to respond to the ambassador's summons because my colleague Wouter De Vriendt referred the question back to him. Does the Minister wish to respond to this point? As the minister did not hear the question, I continue by pointing out other elements. The dramatic aspect of this announcement is not only in the relationship between Palestinians and Israelis. It is also in the relationship between Israel and its neighbours. I would remind you that agreements with Jordan and Egypt are conditional on respect for what is known as the "peace and dialogue process". An annexation of these territories could therefore have a catastrophic impact on the region. I hear your concern, which has not yet been translated into action. Without wishing to fight you, having a great deal of respect for your work, you know that breaches of international law will not become effective in the event of annexation, since they have already existed for decades. I would also like to draw attention once again to the situation in the Jordan Valley, which is one of the areas that is mainly the subject of an annexation project. Villages are evacuated to become military training areas. Palestinian fields are completely destroyed by Israeli tanks every week. Projects, including projects financed by the Belgian Cooperation, are destroyed by the Israeli army, on the pretext of the lack of permits, even though it is known that these lands are illegally occupied. If I can testify today, it's because I've had the opportunity to go to the field several times. In any event, the infringement of international law already exists. The annexation by the Israeli Government would only confirm it and confirm our concerns about the gradual establishment of an apartheid system in Palestine. This brings me to the question of the ban on products from the colonies. Contrary to what Mr. Ben Achour, it's labeling that has become complicated. The effective ban on products from colonies, if applied at European level, could prove useful. I call on you, Minister, to have an answer that is not of variable geometry. Indeed, there will be coherence in terms of international policy, if there is consistency in responding to products from, for example, Crimea or from the West Bank, on the basis of the same acts of international violation. We can't have a policy with variable geometry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u68	Mr. Moutquin, I must remove the microphone, given the length of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u69	Mr Minister, I would like to recall that a few weeks ago we suggested that a debate be held in this committee to which the Israeli Ambassador and a representative of Palestine would have been invited. But this debate could not be organised. It therefore seems to me that it would be appropriate to provide for such a meeting at Parliament level by providing for hearings through video conferencing. This would be a more comfortable solution for everyone. For the time being, exchanges are taking place, but it may be desirable to allow others to participate. This would in any case be more constructive than issues where the time allocated to the speakers is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u70	It is true that the reply was rather long out. We'll see what's possible in the next few weeks. Maybe an invitation to a video conference is possible. That could, of course, be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u71	Madam President, in view of the fact that my previous questions have not been included in the debate that is about to begin, and that I have not had any specific answers to the specific questions I was asking, in particular on the state of the repatriation procedure in Morocco, I would like to reserve a right of reply at the end of the debate, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u72	It's all about mixed questions. There is no topical debate, but if colleagues do not object to your reply, you have the right to do so. [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u73	Minister, it has been more than six weeks since our Belgian nationals were completely blocked in Morocco. Every day I receive messages from families in distress, from sick or elderly people, or from workers who are at risk of losing their jobs. The situation is really critical: our citizens are becoming increasingly distraught and losing patience. Some of these persons have dual nationality and responded to the call from the Belgian Embassy in Morocco, but they have not received any information since then and are concerned, which is understandable. Two recent elements cast doubt on Belgium's true intentions in this case. First, a flight was chartered on 26 April between Casablanca and the Netherlands. The question therefore arises as to why our Dutch neighbours were able to act so quickly when, on the Belgian side, we are still waiting to intervene. The second completely new element is an official communiqué of Moroccan diplomacy, which was published on its website. This press release makes very serious accusations, mainly with regard to the Netherlands but also, in watermark, with regard to Belgium. These statements are said to have been made by the Moroccan Foreign Minister, Nasser Bourita, who believes that Belgium would first have repatriated the Belgians of pure ethnic origin, acting "in a discriminatory manner", before joining the Moroccan thesis. I legitimately wonder how you will react to these comments, and whether they affect the emergency and humanitarian repatriation operation being prepared. We receive a lot of questions from Belgian nationals who have been blocked on the spot, but also from their families, here in Belgium. Very concretely, how many flights can be planned, from which cities in Morocco and on what dates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u74	Minister, I agree with Mr Cogolati's questions. Last week we heard from you that we were on the right track to draw up a joint list of people of dual nationality and could return for humanitarian reasons. It was therefore very strange to get the accusation of the Moroccan Foreign Minister that we are discriminated against people of dual nationality. Having heard your reply from last week, I thought it was rather the Moroccan authorities who imposed restrictions and closed off the airspace and not that it had to do with the distinction that we would make between different nationalities. How do you respond to the statements of the Moroccan Foreign Minister? They say it is from our side, but can you clarify what restrictions the Moroccan authorities have imposed on repatriations? What is the impact on the composition of the repatriation list? Is there anything else planned? What's the status? Are there any prospect of repatriations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u75	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat what has been said, but the situation is very worrying in the light of the statements made by the Moroccan Foreign Minister. The last time I asked you the question, you told me that Moroccan nationals with permanent residence in Belgium could not leave Morocco at the request of the Moroccan authorities and that you made no difference between Belgians and binationals. However, in the official communiqué of Moroccan diplomacy, Nasser Bourita said that there had been some behaviour on the part of Belgium and the Netherlands with regard to the repatriation of their citizens. He said that the two countries had chosen only their ethnic nationals by excluding binationals and that Morocco had never refused that a person with a connection with a country could be repatriated. Then I don't understand anything! Both sides reject the ball. You say that it is the fault of Morocco and Morocco has just declared that it has never opposed the repatriation of binationals. And during this political ping-pong, people suffer, are in pain, lose their jobs... families are separated. Sick children who are trapped there need to be hospitalized or treated here. We don't know who's telling the truth. It is not known how countries position themselves. Minister, could you give us some clear answers? Flights have been organized from Agadir and Marrakech, which are tourist cities, while 80% of the binationals in Morocco are in northern Morocco. Minister, how do you react to the Moroccan Minister's statements? Since the Moroccan authorities have declared that they have never opposed the repatriation of binationals, why do we have a list of 1,700 people when there are 4,000 applications? Why was there this selection apparently made by Belgium, since Morocco says it does not issue conditions at that level? When is Belgium planning to repatriate these Belgian Moroccans? What plan will you put in place to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u76	Madam Chair, Minister, we are back with this issue that is beginning to look like a sea snake. I have no doubt about your goodwill and good faith. But we can only see that, for the time being, this is not working. You assured us that Belgium did not make a difference between the Belgo-Belges and the Belgian multinationals and that your services would do everything to repatriate our fellow Belgian-Moroccans, but that they were confronted with Morocco's sovereign decision to consider them above all as Moroccans. Two weeks ago, an agreement with the Moroccan authorities seemed to have been reached, allowing the repatriation of our fellow citizens for family, professional or health reasons. But let us be very concrete, two weeks later, despite the 1,700 files completed and validated by the Moroccan authorities, no return flights are announced. Impatience is rising by a step, fuelling a feeling of discrimination that is already widespread among the blocked Belgian Moroccans. Morocco's Foreign Minister, Nasser Boutita, seems to have accused Belgium and the Netherlands of discriminating against binationals. Minister, could you give us a detailed account of the situation today? What do you think of your Moroccan counterpart's comments? Why has no aircraft been chartered to Morocco in the last two weeks? If you have it, can you give us a precise schedule of the next scheduled flights between Morocco and Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after fruitful discussions with the Moroccan authorities, we have been able to draw up a list of more than 1,400 Belgians who have provided evidence and met the agreed criteria, namely Belgians who are habitually resident in Belgium and who face a compelling medical or social situation requiring a return to Belgium. This list, finalized after a scrupulous work of collation and analysis requested by the Moroccan authority, was submitted to the said Moroccan authority, as agreed and announced, on 24 April last. As soon as the Moroccan government sends us an answer, our embassy team is ready on the spot to organise the necessary repatriation flights. According to my information, the work on the list on the Moroccan side would progress quickly and there would be an answer today. If so, the first flights can be organised on Friday. These flights will depart from Casablanca, the only open airport. Bus shuttles will be organized to connect the northern cities of the country to Casablanca. These shuttles are organized to facilitate the arrival of Belgians to Casablanca airport, which, to our knowledge, is the only airport open and accessible to people to leave Moroccan territory. Those who have been detained will be informed as soon as possible of the return aid flights that have been set up, as was the case for more than 8,500 Belgians throughout the world, including more than 1,000 from Morocco. With regard to the questions on the statements of the Moroccan Foreign Minister which he would have made at a closed meeting, I would like to refer to the official press release of the Moroccan Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 24 April. In that statement, Minister Bourita clearly states that Belgium respected the principle of economic, family and merits when drawing up the list for the return of Belgians to their residence. The information in the press is not correct. No discrimination has been applied by Belgium, either closely or by far. Moreover, as I have already had the opportunity to say in this committee, it can be estimated that the 7 flights organised in Agadir and Marrakech on 18 and 19 March included about 40% of Belgo-Moroccoans. At the same time, more than 20 commercial flights were still taking off from Tangier, Nador and Oujda, among others, to Belgium. I recall once again my intentions, which have been clear and invariable from the beginning. We have ensured that we allow and facilitate the return of our nationals to the national territory. Like other countries, Morocco has closed its airspace and airports. It was therefore necessary to negotiate. You are also asking me about the situation of our Dutch friends. You will allow me to respect the bilateral contacts between Morocco and the Netherlands, between which I am pleased that a flight has been organised. It will be the same for Belgium at the end of the week. The list was important. We strictly confined ourselves to respecting what had been agreed with the Moroccan authorities. I don't know how many times I'm going to have to say it, but I'll do it as many times as I need to. I contacted my Moroccan counterpart. On that occasion, we were able to repeat the principles that had been agreed between our two countries. Had Moroccan airspace not been closed, we could have continued to organize the return of our nationals. But it was closed. Negotiations have therefore been opened. Incidentally, I would remind you that, like many other countries, Morocco has decided to confiscate - quite strict, moreover, to the point of making internal displacement somewhat complicated. I am pleased that our nationals, whether in Morocco or elsewhere, are allowed to return collectively. Indeed, I would also point out that difficulties have arisen in other countries. With regard to the work done by my administration, I would like to congratulate it. Treating so many e-mails in such a short time isn't a big deal. For some, we have taken too long. If we had to answer within 24 hours, we would have been accused of excluding some from the information circuit. We gave a week to the nationals who wanted to come back to make themselves known. The list was analysed seriously, as agreed. Since Friday, it has been - in full transparency - in the hands of the Moroccan authorities. We were told on Friday that the list will be closed by the end of the day. You will easily understand that, since the only starting point is Casablanca, in order not to exclude people without internet access - as I understand that some could not be reached and that it took a little time for the information to arrive - the first flights should only take off on Friday, as I told you. In any case, I do not accept criticism that we are making distinctions. Nor will I enter into the game of trying to provoke difficulties between the Moroccan State and Belgium. The work was arduous. For having often been at the crisis center and having had contact with our embassy in Rabat, I can tell you that it is not very respectful of the work provided by our agents to say that "it dragged" or that we made "a distinction". It's not in the DNA of our FPS Foreign Affairs. I am therefore totally incriminating these statements. Controversy is not in my nature and does not interest me. My goal is to succeed in this repatriation. We will stick to that and I hope that we can welcome the Belgians as soon as possible, whether they come back from there or elsewhere! We pursue the same policy towards all our nationals, wherever they are in the world, respecting the sovereignty of the States with which we deal. Don't look for a false controversy between Morocco and Belgium! There aren't any!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Boukili would like to be the first to reply, since he has to go straight to another committee. Can we agree with that? [[Assent]] Mr Boukili, you must respect the two-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u79	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for leaving me the floor. Minister, first of all, one question remains unanswered. I'm not saying there's or there's no controversy. I am not entering into your relations with Morocco. I'm limited to official statements. You make official statements, just like Moroccan diplomacy. In this statement, Moroccan diplomacy says that it does not oppose the repatriation of binationals, nor has it ever done so. You are telling us that there is a problem with Morocco, which does not accept the repatriation of binationals, and that we need an agreement. As a result of this agreement, you have reached a list of 1,400 people. I had a question to which I did not receive an answer. Why 1,400 people? Why does Belgium restrict applications to 1,400 people when Morocco officially declares that it does not oppose the repatriation of binationals? This question remained unanswered. Secondly, Mr Minister: the question of discrimination does not put you in default. This is a reality, which has been experienced by people on the spot. I receive a lot of testimony on this issue. Above all, this has been confirmed by the Moroccan authorities. Are you saying they made a lie? Besides, I was surprised. As you said, you want to consider binationals in a way that is quite equal to Belgians who have only one nationality, but last week, when we tabled our bill to amend the Consular Code, which was found to be discriminatory by the League of Human Rights, we asked for urgency. Your party voted against the urgency to amend this Code. So I don't understand. There are the statements on one side, and on the other, the acts. I'm limited to actions. And in actions, there is discrimination and treatment different from our fellow citizens blocked in Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answer. I also admit that I don't like polemics very much, but when my mailbox is flooded with calls for help from families in distress, there is a real problem with these thousands of families. They're not the 400 Belgians we were talking about at first. They are thousands of people, Belgian nationals who are blocked in very critical situations on the spot in Morocco. My only hope is that things can finally move forward. I have seen repatriation flights organized by Spain, Canada, France and most recently by the Netherlands. I wonder why not Belgium, why not faster. Why is this not possible in the case of Belgium, when we know that bilateral relations are in principle good between Belgium and Morocco? Let me also be surprised by the official communiqué which followed this meeting of the Committee on External Relations, which actually took place in camera! The content of this communiqué was, however, particularly surprising and particularly violent towards the Netherlands. These proposals also cast doubt on Belgium's true intentions. I therefore understand that our citizens are worried and in doubt because they have been waiting for six weeks. Your numbers indicate 1,400 Belgians. Last week, I understood that 1,700 Belgians had been retained on the lists sent back to the Moroccan authorities. I would like to be sure that this figure has not fallen. Are we talking about 1,700 and not 1,400 people? For the remaining Belgians, who will still be forced and stuck in Morocco, I really think that proactive communication should be planned towards them. Indeed, if they are obliged to communicate via Members, it is because they are distraught and do not receive the information directly from our administration. I think that we must also be able to provide them with all the necessary assistance, because they are facing a particularly difficult humanitarian situation. Finally, I fully understand that this is a particularly delicate and critical operation for our services. Let me thank them once again!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u81	Minister, it is important to know that the Belgians of dual nationality who are in Morocco are desperate when they have to read such communication in the media. Your answer last week was reassuring. The list had been drawn up, now she suddenly reaches 1,400 people. As you also point out, the most important thing is that they can come home on Friday, that the repatriations start and that the polemics stop. That is the only way to eliminate all suspicions and questionable diplomatic responses. With the start of repatriations, I would certainly recommend that our diplomats steer this as soon as possible. Minister, it is clear that you remain in line. There has been no discrimination by the government at all. Indeed, 40% of people with dual nationality have already returned to Belgium. I'd like you to stay on that line. I also hope that the repatriations can begin on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u82	Minister, thank you for your responses, which are partially complete. Thank you for giving some perspectives with this promised start of repatriation from Friday. If we are many to talk to you about the question of the Belgo-Moroccoans, it is good that there is a specific concern with these compatriots, retained in this country more than elsewhere. Many of us receive reports. No one doubts the important work of the FPS Foreign Affairs but they have a sense of abandonment and lack of information that needs to be heard, even though many things would be put in place – and I take note of them – to solve this problem as quickly as possible. I thank you for your services. I also had this figure of 1,700 people, which has just dropped to 1,400. Was the information we received two weeks ago wrong? A beat of 300 people has to be explained in one way or another. For the rest, I have confidence in your good faith and I hear your concern to ensure that our compatriots can return here as soon as possible. Thank you for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u83	Madam President, I have a few practical questions, apart from any polemic. Minister, I would also like to understand why we have grown from 1,700 to 1,400 people in a week. I imagine they are people whose certificates have not been found to meet the criteria set by the Belgian and Moroccan authorities. Can you confirm that? You said the first flights would be scheduled on Friday. Should it be inferred that there may be others? I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, given the long duration of the stay on site, people find themselves without resources. As some countries have done, is a form of logistical support planned to allow people to join Casablanca? Indeed, when you are in Oujda or Nador, it is not always easy, in a totally confined country, to go to Casablanca. Is support, such as a bus shuttle, envisaged? In addition, the financial resources of several people are exhausted. Is it possible to help these people financially pay for their flight? The issue also applies to other countries, including Burundi. I hope that these specific issues will help to narrow the agenda for future operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u84	I've had a few questions, Madam President. Mr Boukili probably did not pay attention at the beginning of my answer. I'll read it to you again. After fruitful discussions with the Moroccan authorities, we have drawn up a list of more than 1,400 Belgians who have provided evidence and met the agreed criteria, namely Belgians who are habitually resident in Belgium and who face a compelling medical or social situation requiring a return to Belgium. I repeat once again that these criteria have been negotiated with the Moroccan authority. I think it's clear. I wanted to inform you as clearly as possible last week. The communication goes in both directions. Parliamentarians play their part. The FPS Foreign Affairs plays its part. The minister also plays his part. Like you, Mr. Cogolati, I am solicited by a lot of emails and I try to answer them; sometimes my answers do not meet people's expectations, but to think that we are disconnected, that we do not answer and that we leave people in uncertainty is inaccurate. We're going from about 1,700 to about 1,500 people. Why? There is indeed a work of analysis of the certificates. I explained to you that we had analysed 5,000 applications, including 3,700 Belgians. Of these 3,700 Belgians, some had certificates, others did not. We arrived at a figure of 1,700 people who had the certificates requested by the Moroccan authorities. Then, after an analysis of the certificates, it was found that some were not within the established framework. This explains the difference between the number of 1,700 initially announced and that of about 1,500 – I will give you the precise figure as soon as possible – after analysis by the Moroccan authorities. Mr Ben Achour, in relation to the flight, the ideal and hoped-for schedule is from Friday. Several flights will be organized as a large number of people will be repatriated in this context. I also said in my reply earlier that in order to facilitate access to the airport for people who would be in remote areas of that airport, a bus service would also be set up. It takes time. It's not that simple. Ideally, we will be able to implement our first flights on Friday. You're also talking about the financing of returns. As with other repatriations, we apply the principle of debt recognition. This means that people must not advance the money if they do not have the capacity to do so. They sign a debt recognition, and once they return home, repayment is arranged; I think I'm very clear on that. A final observation was made on the exchanges between the Moroccan Foreign Minister and his statements at the end of a closed committee. I am very attached to the in camera and therefore I assume that the same principle applies everywhere. I would prefer you to read the press release of April 24 carefully. It is a statement from the Moroccan Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is a statement of position. He corroborates, as you will see, what I have been explaining here for many weeks. I never said that negotiation had been easy. I never said we were happy that it had taken time. But negotiating takes time. Implementing an operation of this nature takes time. Indeed, 5,000 or more people are asking for a return, and the criteria must be analysed. Yes, it takes time. That is why I am taking time again to answer this question. Letting any doubt about a preference or distinction that would have been given, I told you, is a matter of controversy and does not interest me. On the other hand, I don't want to leave any room for interpretation. This is not the first time that I have been told, in four weeks, that some people feel they are abandoned, abandoned and not respected. I think maintaining this message is a bad signal. Because we all know here that's not true. Our responsibility to people who feel that way is to explain to them what is really going on, and to share the parliamentary work, the questions that you rightly ask, as well as the answers that are given to you, also rightly. This may at some point cause the trend to be reversed, and this feeling, which may exist in some, will change at some point. You're also, like me, witnesses to fake news. We cross them every day. Yesterday I was arrested on a flight that would have come from where we don't know on April 8th. Belgium reportedly chartered a flight on 8 April. The plane would have gone there and left. Should we react to all the fake news? What are we doing? There are official places of expression, like here. These places are important. It is the responsibility of everyone to transmit the information as it is. We can regret the events, analyze some aspect of them, but a message must still be delivered. Belgium is doing everything it can to enable the repatriation of its nationals and there is no distinction between binationals and mononationals. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u86	Madam President, Minister, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, Dunja Mijatovic, has this week published her annual activity report for 2019. It provides an overview of the human rights problems facing European countries over the past 12 months. It is clear from this report that too few obligations are being taken up by the Member States in this respect. The Commissioner believes that "Europe seems to have arrived at a roundabout and is following the laps so hesitant about the direction to be taken". The principles of human rights have also been the subject of an increasing number of calls into question throughout the continent, endangering the principles and standards on which Europe has built itself over the past 70 years. Minister, have you read this report? If so, what political analysis do you make of it? Will this problem be discussed with your European counterparts in the near future? What do you think are the main European priorities in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u87	Madam President, Mr De Maegd, I have indeed taken note of this annual report by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, who, as you know, regularly informs the Council of Ministers at the level of permanent representatives. In her general analysis, the Commissioner estimates that in 2019, human rights standards and principles were subject to an increasing number of challenges across the continent. In some cases, hostility towards the universal, indivisible and legally binding nature of human rights has increased, fuelling a corrosive discourse that jeopardizes the principles and standards on which Europe has built itself over the past 70 years. The Commissioner identifies five themes that illustrate in particular the question of human rights in Europe: the growing political and social acceptance of racism, contempt for the human rights of migrants and refugees, threats to women's rights, repression of protest and, finally, the erosion of the independence of justice. In addition, four themes included in the report to which Belgium attaches particular interest seem to me to be priorities: women's rights and gender equality, children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of LGBTQI people. This report will be discussed at the next Committee of Ministers on 6 May, which will be held by videoconference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u88	Minister, thank you for your clear and precise answer. We will not fail to be attentive to this fundamental problem in democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u89	Madam President, Minister, I am quite concerned that, for the past few weeks in Morocco, there has been a huge outing campaign. It consists of denouncing his neighbour, neighbour, partner, family in general, of proven or alleged homosexuality. This is done by broadcasting photos of the people concerned or gsm numbers, on the web. It's a real witch hunt that's been going on for a few days. There is an incredible fear and anxiety of homosexuals in Morocco. We're talking about suicide-prone individuals. I think you're aware of the situation. Indeed, it is worrying. As usual, there is silence by the Moroccan authorities on this issue. It should still be recalled that, in Moroccan law, the sexual act between two persons of the same sex is still condemned: 170 people were prosecuted or sentenced in 2018 for this reason. Minister, are you aware of this real witch hunt that is currently taking place in Morocco? What support can Belgium provide to these people? What contacts will you make with the Moroccan authorities in this regard? The last question concerns your colleague Mr. From Croo. What is possible in terms of an economic agreement with Morocco? I know that these agreements are conditional on respect for human rights, and in particular that genré projects are in place. Could projects on LGBT rights be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u90	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, like you, we have been informed of the situation via the media. Belgium has not been contacted directly or indirectly by those who have been harassed. Discussions on human rights, including the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation, are a recurring theme in bilateral contacts with Morocco. In addition, on the occasion of the World Day to Combat Homophobia and Transphobia in May 2019, our Embassy in Rabat co-organized, with the European Union delegation, a meeting on LGBTI rights. The meeting, attended by representatives of development banks, United Nations agencies and cooperation agencies, was aimed at exchanging information on emblematic initiatives relating to the promotion and protection of the rights of LGBTI people in Morocco. The economic relations between Belgium and Morocco are to a large extent defined by the European Union's policy in this area. Morocco has had an association agreement with the European Union since 2000. As you know, this is a specific type of international agreement aimed at far-reaching cooperation. The agreements concern in particular economic cooperation and trade, but also the strengthening of the rule of law and the protection of human rights. The principle is to work for development in a climate of peace, security and stability in accordance with democratic principles and fundamental rights. One of the four priority areas of cooperation between Morocco and the European Union includes the area of convergence of values, in order to promote a deeper alignment around the founding and guiding principles of the partnership, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the fight against hate speech, intolerance, stigmatization and discrimination. The Association Council, which defines the priorities of political dialogue and cooperation, governs relations between the European Union and Morocco. The last meeting of the Association Council took place on 27 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic159x.u91	Minister, I know your interest in LGBT equality issues in general and thank you for that. I followed the action that took place in May 2019. You're telling me you weren't contacted by the victims of that witch hunt. You can easily imagine that they're really afraid to contact anyone right now. Even the official associations for the defence of homosexuals live hidden or are at least discreet in Morocco. Mr Minister, I therefore strongly encourage you to carry out a work of analysis, expertise and dialogue with the Moroccan authorities on this issue.
