ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u1	Minister, we have discussed this matter before in the Committee on Justice and in other committees. I have found that at a certain point in the debate, the Charleroi or the parish general's parish has been mixed, with statements that the delay is the result of corona, whereas we have subsequently found that the delay has nothing to do with it, and also with statements that it would not be clear or certainly not certain that Mr Chovanec's death is the result of the police action. It is therefore easy to communicate, but if we want to ask questions, it is obviously not possible. We have received the message from the College of Attorneys General that we cannot now question the court. The public prosecutor is allowed to announce everything in the press, but we cannot question the public prosecutor. We are therefore obliged to put the questions to you, Minister, in the hope that you will be able to give the answers. There is a crucial question that lives with everyone. We know that the courthouse was aware of the case quite early. It was also aware of the images. According to the police report, the parquet would have seen the footage on February 24th at 05.50 hours. That is to say that all the footage of the police officer involved who gave the Hitler greetings and the other inappropriate behaviour of police officers was then seen. It is therefore clear that, on the basis of Article 26 of the Law of 13 May 1999, the public prosecutor could have informed the police hierarchy when establishing those facts. That does not seem to have happened, but of course that is what the question is about, Minister. First of all, did Charleroi's parquet already have the footage on 24 February? Were the footage from the Charleroi parquet also viewed? If so, when did this happen, and by whom? If not, why not? Who was supposed to do that? Secondly, as required by the law of 13 May 1999, did the court inform the disciplinary authorities? If so, when did this happen, and by whom? If not, why not? Who was supposed to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u2	Minister, the last word has not been said in this case. I think it is right that everything should be investigated to the bone. The role we play as committee is not so obvious. At first the big guns were pulled out on all fronts, but now we have to proceed in a different way. This morning I learned, also from the public prosecutor, that I must speak with two words, and always in the conditional. I understand that, because the investigation is the investigation and the same applies to the investigation, but if we put together all the data and the knowledge we have today, it is clear that something has gone wrong with the flow of information within the police hierarchy. At first, it was okay. We've got footage taken, confiscated, and the parquet has it. After that, there's a vacuum for me. Police reports have been prepared, both concise and far more complete. Those are also delivered to the parquet, but after that there is that same vacuum again. On the basis of the information we have, it does not seem illogical to me that the court at that time delivered the images and the report to the competent disciplinary authorities to investigate them. We have just had a debate with the public prosecutor. I understand that the prosecutor-general considers this to be a preliminaries to the investigation that the Supreme Court is currently conducting, but as far as I am concerned, it is certainly not a preliminaries to the judicial investigation that the prosecutor conducts at the same time to the facts that have taken place in that cell. We have looked at the images and yet we have at least been able to determine the nazig soot. The violence may need to be investigated further, but certainly in connection with the release of that greeting there could have been an investigation followed and the police could have taken a number of measures already. I find it strange and incomprehensible that this cannot yet be said or admitted in so many words. In any other case, we would assume that such images would be delivered to the disciplinary authorities, which could then investigate them. I don't want to anticipate the Supreme Court's investigation, but do you have any idea what went wrong? How is it that the court has not complied with the obligation, which it does have, to inform the competent disciplinary authorities? This brings us to the second part of the discussion. They've communicated about it themselves, but now they don't, because of the investigation. I understand that, but the argument that they put on the first committee, like you, was that the press release was vague. Whoever saw the footage knows that at that time, at least for the court, there was much more information available than just that vague press release. A vague press release should therefore not be a reason not to forward the matter. Is there any other motivation? If so, I would have liked to have heard it. Pending both the judicial investigation and the investigation of the Supreme Court, have any measures been taken to ensure better functioning and follow-up of the proceedings in the future and to ensure that the information reaches the right place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u3	Madam President, I too will simply refer to my question. By the way, I was the first petitioner. I had withdrawn my question because the services had requested it. After all, a hearing was planned with the public prosecutor. The other Members did not withdraw their question and so I had my question put again on the agenda. From what we have heard this morning, I understand that we have to wait before we get a ruling and let the Supreme Court of Justice do its job. I could have withdrawn my question because the Council is working on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u4	Madam President, Minister, we were indeed hoping to get answers this morning, but we did not get them. Apart from all the principles that have been put forward by the public prosecutor, and with which, of course, we fully agree, namely the separation of powers and the principles of the rule of law, we also insisted this morning on the totally inappropriate communication of the public prosecutor himself. It itself has violated all the principles it lists. Apart from that, I hope that you will be able to give a little more information today, bearing in mind, of course, the secret of the investigation and the separation of powers. As the same questions keep coming back, I would like to refer to the six questions I have tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u5	Mrs Slegers, do you wish to intervene now or in the reply? You have to choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u6	Madam President, I would like to ask two more questions in connection with this morning's sitting. We have put a lot of questions to the court and we have remained hungry. I will not ask these questions again to the Minister, because I want the court to answer those questions. I understand that we will receive those answers as soon as the Supreme Court's investigation is completed. So I'm patient. So after this morning's sitting, I left two questions. It's about existential questions. Things have gone wrong in terms of communication after all. In se, I think it is very important to learn lessons from this case. Will that happen? Is there any consideration of drawing up guidelines for better communication between the judiciary and Parliament or the public? If one first does not communicate at all and then suddenly communicates, with even more confusion, then that is not good. Justice must meet people's expectations in the field of communication today. Are there any intentions to work on that? My second question concerns the judicial investigation itself. People think it's taking a long time. That's a pain point. This morning we heard that we have to wait for the end of the investigation to decide whether or not it took long. I have every sympathy for that. However, the Attorney General said that judicial experts are sometimes unmotivated and that the factor of delay is sometimes found in producing expert reports. Is that right? Is there any way to remedy that, so that the investigation can be completed more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u7	Mr Boukili, would you please take the floor? You know you can't replicate after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u8	I join my colleagues, this morning's hearings left us hungry. The existence of two reports was mentioned, namely, a rather brief first report, which was transmitted to the police, and a second report, which was transmitted to your services. In your opinion, is it logical to have two separate reports? Why is the first report so brief compared to the second? When your services received this report, why didn't they disclose it to the disciplinary authorities? Could they publish it? Several ministers referred to a neutral police report. This is in fact a disguised report, for some facts have not been mentioned, such as the reference to Hitler's salvation or the cover placed on Mr. Chovanec's head. Hasn't there been any falsification of police reports? What is the procedure to be followed when reports are inconsistent with other sources, such as video sequences? Do you think any mistakes have been made by your services and the police? Is there a problem with the Public Prosecutor's Office in the province of Hainaut?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u9	If no other group asks to speak, I give the floor to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u10	Thank you for your questions. A few weeks ago, I answered your questions to the extent that it was granted a Minister of Justice. The discussion you had this morning with the College of Attorneys General is, of course, also important for the Minister of Justice, who performs an intermediate function between the first and third powers. In the constitutional review of the late 1990s, Parliament made the prosecutors independent in the performance of their duties and thus independent of the Minister of Justice. When it comes to a judicial investigation, like this one, I can only give the answers to your committee that the prosecution will allow me to give. I am pleased that you are asking me these questions again, after what has been told to you by the College of Attorney General this morning, because you think I know more, which is not the case. However, I am a little sad, because you know that I cannot answer anymore. It is probably your duty on behalf of the first power to ask me these questions. In this case, however, you must decide that directly with the third power, but not with the Minister of Justice. In my first questioning in this committee, where Mr Segers asked a question about the application of Rule 26, I have already given the answer that the public prosecutor gave me. I have already given that answer on television. That is not the answer Mrs De Wit suggests. The parquet did not say at all that they thought everyone knew this because it had appeared in a newspaper article. The parole board said it meant that because the police were so close. I have added a sentence that may not have been in the answer in that way, but you can read it in the documents of the committee. I said that because the boss of the airport police that night was on watch, the parole officer thought the police hierarchy knew. I also believe that this is stated in the press release of the Attorney General. For this reason, the court also considered that it was not necessary to inform the disciplinary authorities on their own. I understand that this answer has not been repeated this morning. I can only say what I have already said, I am not saying anything new, I have already said it: it will be the law that must or must not confirm the truth of this answer. In any event, I gave that answer with the permission of the court and I have no reason to doubt the truth of that answer, for the simple reason, of course, that if the police hierarchy itself was on guard that night, the public prosecutor might have thought it had been dismissed from the rule of Article 26. I have said that twice, I say it a third time and I say nothing new. If you think I'm saying something new, that's not the case. I'm saying the same thing I've already said and not in my own name, but in the name of the parquet. However, I think it is a plausible answer. For the rest, I will be able to answer all your questions in a moment, and I shall not be able to comment on the experts who are here today but I would like to refer you to the meeting of this morning with the full College of Attorney General and to the inquiry initiated by the Advisory and Investigation Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice, which I hope will clarify your questions. You know that this also happened in the case of Julie Van Espen and that at that time the Supreme Court also informed the committee in person. At this stage, I can only quote the answer as to why certain actions were or were not carried out in the context of the investigation that was presented to me yesterday by the Attorney General of Bergen. I quote: "Nothing clearly demonstrates, at the present stage of the investigation, that the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office has failed or failed to fulfil a legal obligation which it had to fulfil vis-à-vis the disciplinary authority in particular". It should also be recalled, as stated in the press release of the General Prosecutor's Office of 2 September 2020, that the police have always been able to have the video surveillance footage of the cell, only a copy of which had been seized by the judicial authorities. Finally, since a specific investigation is currently under way within the Higher Council of Justice, it is appropriate to await the outcome of this procedure, on the basis of which recommendations, if any, should be made, and to draw all appropriate lessons for the future. In the meantime, every effort must be made to ensure that the investigation continues in a calm manner and with the strictest respect for the fundamental principles of our criminal procedure. As regards your questions concerning the internal control of police reports and the operation of the police, I must also refer you to the investigation carried out by the P Committee on this matter, as well as to internal police investigations. Both investigations are ongoing. They will also have to clarify Mr Colebunders' questions about the differences between the police reports and their consistency with the video footage. I can't and I can't say anything about that. With regard to the internal control systems of the police reports, I would also refer to Mr De Crem, Minister for the Interior, under whose jurisdiction that is, and who has already reported extensively on this matter, along with me, a few weeks ago. Mr Segers, with regard to your question about the seizure of the images and the communication to the disciplinary authorities, I refer to what the Attorney General has expressly informed me about them. I quote: "It is appropriate to refer to the press release of the General Prosecutor's Office of 2 September 2020, which, on page 2, stated that 'when the investigating judge raided the prosecutor's office on 27 February 2018, the video surveillance footage was ordered to be seized. A copy of the images was recorded on a USB stick, the content of which was then engraved on a CD-ROM. It's not the central server that was entered. This means that the police have always kept the original of the images notwithstanding the seizure carried out and that they could perfectly view them at any time regardless of the judicial investigation under way and especially within the framework of their disciplinary powers." Mr Segers, second, as regards the legal aid of the agents, the Attorney General informs me of the following. "Police officers were given the opportunity to choose counsel before their hearing so that they apparently did not benefit from legal assistance, a point which in any case is beyond the knowledge of the judicial authorities. If the question relates to the possible assumption of the state of the costs and fees of the respective lawyers of the police officers involved in the Federal Police Service, the Minister of the Interior, the only competent person to answer it, should be contacted." Thirdly, Mr Segers, you ask about the victim's reception by the parquet and whether contact was made with Mr Chovanec's family. I can tell you the following, quoting from a letter from the Attorney General of Bergen. "The victim reception service was commissioned by the investigating magistrate on 1 March 2018 in order to make an offer of service to Mrs. Chovancova, the widow of Mr. Chovanec, through his council of the time. A letter was later sent in this context to Mrs. Chovancova's new council." Mrs Slegers, you asked a question about the issue of experts, who, according to what you say, would not act so quickly. The total budget available for court fees has been increased from EUR 70 million to EUR 100 million in the past legislative period, corresponding to the amounts actually due on an annual basis, which has led to a structural approach to the fixed recurring backlogs. During the previous legislature, we completely renewed the legal framework for court fees. Thirteen arrondissement offices were set up on a decentralised basis and ensure that the cost statements of the legal experts for which they are competent are dealt with and paid as soon as possible. Those intermediaries in the district offices, these providers of services experts, shall cooperate as closely as possible with a view to facilitating the processing of cost statements. Furthermore, the law provides that the advancing magistrate shall precisely define his or her mission, define its scope and determine the time limit within which the contract must be completed by the expert. In addition, tariffs for a number of professions, such as legal psychiatrists, translators and DNA researchers, were also reformed, thus helping them to respond better to today's technological challenges within the existing budget. There is also a requirement for legal experts to be included in the national register. Only persons entered in that register may hold the title of legal expert and be appointed by the judicial authorities. I therefore believe that, within the limits of what is possible during the past legislature, everything has been done to give the experts a better framework and to compensate their cost states more quickly. Madam President, that concludes my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I fully understand that it is not obvious to answer questions relating to the content of a file when we are dealing with a judicial investigation or an investigation. If we then ask questions, you are indeed dependent on what the Public Prosecutor tells you, but I think that sometimes the secret of the judicial investigation is too quickly screened. In this case, the investigation is about the death of someone following a police intervention in a cell. That's under investigation. I do not have the impression that there is a judicial investigation into police communications. The simple question, which has been answered a few times, but apparently not always in the same sentence, whether a report has been made by the police about that footage...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u12	Always in the same sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u13	In the end, you said that the public prosecutor did not repeat it this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u14	Because they don't want to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u15	I'll come back to that later. I would just like to say that there are also elements in the file that are not part of the secret of the investigation. You can't hide behind that all the time. I know there's an internal investigation going on. This will have to be borne in mind. There is an investigation by the Supreme Court of Justice and an investigation by the P Committee. Because high-level policemen were involved and employed, it was assumed that the cases were known. That explanation is too easy. You say it's plausible. I think it's too easy. One should have checked if the facts were passed on. We have to, according to the law. The parquet has to pass on such things. If one assumes that one has known, then one is at risk. The law does not say that one should assume that it is conscience. The law says to report it. One may not have to report it again if one is sure that it is known in the right services. However, that has not been verified. I am therefore not convinced of that answer. I do not think that the court has acted as it should, but we will have to await the investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice. Finally, one more point about the experts. We have had a lot of discussions on this in recent years. There is a problem with experts in criminal records, because there are often too few. Why are they often too few? Because the payment is often not okay and because there has been a problem with the payout for years. Many experts sometimes had to wait years for payouts. As a result, there is a risk that the good experts will drop out, turn back on their private activity and be less available for criminal investigations. That is a fundamental problem that we are facing. At the moment, for example, only one court psychiatrist would be available for criminal proceedings for the entire province of Antwerp. That's a problem. If he goes missing, we won't have anyone there. I think this is really a yard in which investment must be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u16	Mr. Secretary, we will await the investigation. That's obvious. We do not have much choice, because for understandable reasons the umbrella is being opened. On the other hand, it bothers me that policemen have already been dealt with badly. They're not politicians. The fact that politicians are being dealt with is one thing, but policemen don't have an umbrella to open up. That is a bit of annoying to me, because one should be able to admit, even independently of the case, what, according to the procedures in force, should normally have been done. I find that problematic. That is certainly not a preliminaries on anything and it would not have been a preliminaries for the parquet either. We'll see what the Supreme Court's investigation will show for the Justice Department. I hope it will be quick so that we can find out soon. I certainly hope that lessons will be drawn in the meantime and that the existing directives will be properly implemented. I hope, of course, that such situations will not happen again, but should they happen again, we must know what is going on so that we can take the necessary action when they need to be taken. That's my concern. Anyone can make a mistake, but if they don't learn from it, it's definitely acidic. I think the latter has not yet been said, but let's keep the serenity and then see and hear it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u17	Thank you for the answers, Minister. I have said it before, for us the main problem lies with the police and the way in which the information is shared there. That is very clear. That does not alter the fact that we also had a number of questions about Justice. Thank you for your answer regarding the seizure of the images. That's important. Now, as Prime Minister Jambon did, we often make it appear that the period during which the police could take action would have been very short, which would mean that the responsibility would lie more with the judiciary. In my opinion, you may put that in a little more detail, if I have understood you correctly. You say that Mr Elst was on guard that night and that therefore the disciplinary authorities were not informed. Mr Elst may have been on hold, but he hasn't looked at the footage, is being written. Once again, the main responsibility lies with the police, but would it not be better to break the circular reasoning and take it for granted? I believe it is, especially since such a notification also requires that the case be dealt with, as is clear from Article 26 of the Disciplinary Law Act. Mr Delmulle said this morning that the claim that there would be no mention of the images by the public prosecutor would be a preliminaries. That's the subject of the investigation. I found that very strange and also indicative of the minimal answers we have received. There was just a little too much shielding with the secret of the investigation. You also replied to me earlier that the Public Prosecutor had replied to you that the judicial authorities had no longer considered it necessary. So the intel even came from them. This morning, even that information was somewhat contradicted. I feel like a little bit of a toy between you and the parquet. You say as a minister that you are a pass-through door. At the same time, the prosecutor-general gives minimal answers, even when I ask questions about very general practices. The questions I asked this morning were not even on this particular matter. They were as general as possible. That is why I think that the secret of the investigation has just been used a little too easy not to say anything. We are thus deprived of essential information that we must have in order to be able to judge properly. I do not want to do a preliminaries yet, but the Essex case is about to be discussed, and I fear that there might be something similar there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u18	Minister, I refer to what I said earlier. I'll get the people to continue the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u19	We could have known yesterday that it would be a measure for nothing today and that we would continue to run round, but that is absolutely not a reproach to you, Minister. After this morning's meeting, I note that the secret of the investigation is often being screened, but in my view the public prosecutor himself is violating the secret of the investigation in his press release. I therefore expect the same objectivity and serenity towards the media and Parliament. Having said that, I have adopted a new element today, as Mr Segers said. I agree with what Mr Van Hecke says about reporting to the disciplinary authorities through the public prosecutor's office, but today we find that the police have always been in possession of the footage and have been able to look at it at any time. That is the only point I remembered from the hearing today. The investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice is important. We're waiting and we're looking forward to it. Depending on the conclusions, we will be able to draw lessons from them. For the rest, I agree with you, Minister, that the investigation in this matter itself should be conducted in a very serene and thorough manner. This morning, however, I asked the College of Attorneys General twice or three times to deal with the matter with a high degree of urgency, so that the confidence in justice can be pushed forward again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Colebunders was put off. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Smet's 5508011C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u21	Minister, my question is very simple and in a few words. I would simply like to return to the question I asked you on 14 July, following a particularly critical report by a United Nations Special Rapporteur. She claimed that Belgian agents had been sent to Syria to interview a Belgian jihadist and even to negotiate his transfer to Iraq where he is now sentenced to death. I would like to know whether the assertion of this United Nations Special Rapporteur in Geneva is true or false.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u22	Mr Cogolati, I can only answer you the same thing I answered in July. In the meantime, I can tell you that this is the answer given to the Special Rapporteur. I must confine myself to reminding myself that the Belgian Government cannot confirm or invalidate the existence of a meeting of intelligence agents with Mr Al-Marchohi. It is the responsibility of the intelligence services to proactively collect information on the fight against terrorism. In this context, intelligence missions may be undertaken abroad. Their aim is to gather information that can be useful for the protection of Belgium, its citizens and its partners. The Belgian Government cannot overturn or confirm the existence of specific missions. On the one hand, this attitude is necessary to ensure the safety of possible future missions and to comply with classification rules. On the other hand, the Belgian Government does not communicate on the files of persons managed by the intelligence services. However, I stress that, even in the event of such a meeting, this would not change the situation in terms of obligations for the Belgian State. It would not mean that Mr Al-Marchohi was under the control of the Belgian authorities. Finally, there have never been any negotiations on the detention of the person concerned or on his transfer to Iraq as you seem to indicate. A previous reply already indicated that the Belgian authorities had not been consulted on a transfer to the Iraqi authorities and had not a fortiori given their consent to such a transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u23	Mr Minister, thank you for this answer, which does not deny this contact and the dispatch of Belgian agents to Syria. I think, on the one hand, that from a security point of view, it is obviously important to ensure full transparency, since this is a Belgian djihahdist. On the other hand, I do believe that there is a legal obligation on Belgium at international level and at European human rights treaty level. It prevents capital punishment. However, we are well aware that this national, who remains a Belgian national whether or not we wish to do so, is now sentenced to the death penalty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u24	Madam President, Minister, I had doubts about the presentation of this question, but I am glad that I submitted it afterwards; I did not miss the press release in question. It's a very sorry story. On July 19, last summer, someone was found dead in his cell in Leuven-Central. On the day of death, the Prisoners informed them that everything had gone according to proper procedures. Around 5:30 a.m., the person concerned announced that he wasn't feeling very well. Very soon after passing on those complaints, he would have died. The Last News reported on 22 July, based on anonymous sources from the prison, that the person concerned would have been left to his fate at night despite many pleas and had already asked for medical attention at 03.30. On the indication of telephone contact with the doctor, paracetamol was administered, but at six o'clock in the morning the person was found dead. The day after his death, the Prison Being communicated differently from the first communication. The second version is more like that of the anonymous sources I just mentioned. It was reported that the first complaints had indeed been reported at 03.30 hours, that a guard contacted a doctor and then, on his recommendation, gave paracetamol. Given the hours of the night, the doctor didn't come to the scene immediately. For the Prisoners and the Public Prosecutor, as far as I can figure out, since I don't know if there's an investigation going on, the case is closed. It would be a natural death in which all procedures have been followed. Mr. Secretary, do you have any knowledge of the facts? Can you provide additional information on the course that night? Can you tell me whether there is an internal review of whether I do not want to take the word "mistakes" in the mouth yet or whether the proper procedure has been followed, or whether any action could have been taken to avoid the death? Do you already have all the information in your hands to show that the death was indeed inevitable and that any speedier or other action could not have changed that? In view of your answer in the previous debate, I know that these are somewhat delicate questions. However, I did not want to turn this question into a written question, although I had already submitted it in July, because I think it is important enough to bring this to the attention of the House. I do not want to be blamed again for not taking on my role as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u25	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, the competent person in my cabinet was informed on 18 July by the prison administration of this tragic event, by the communication of the police report of the prison director. The information I have obtained shows the following. On the night of 17 to 18 July, around 04.30 a.m., an inmate pressed the alarm bell, after which the staff went to jail. The inmate concerned complained about diffuse pain throughout the body, after which the staff tried to know the complaints in a more precise way through a few targeted questions. Then the physician was called on guard duty. After hearing the staff, he decided that the prisoner should be given the medicine to which you referred in your written record. The prisoner refused to take the medicine, after which the staff left it in the cell in case the man changed his mind. The night staff made additional observations to verify the condition of the man. The problems that occurred during the night were reported to the emerging staff at the beginning of the morning shift, after which the cell was visited again around 06.10 hours and staff found that the prisoner complained about breathing difficulties. The center commander was informed of the condition of the person concerned, to contact a doctor a second time. Then around 06.15 hrs they heard a puff, after which one had to determine that the man had fallen and was unconscious. The personnel present have started CPR pending the arrival of the E.R. It arrived at the scene at 06.36 hours and finally the board was informed at 07.23 hours that the man had died. The police were notified, as were the public prosecutors. The parole board sent a law doctor and a lab on the scene. Eventually, the body was released at 10.45 p.m., after the conclusion was reached that it was a natural death. Around 1:30 p.m., the cell was released. From all the foregoing, I think I can conclude that the prison staff have responded in an appropriate and cautious manner to the health complaints of the prisoner and that an additional administrative inquiry will therefore not reveal anything new. I do think that I will advise my successor to have every prisoner who dies in prison under not entirely normal circumstances, for example after a long-term cancer path, autopsied, both for people who commit suicide and for others. I think that this would be a wise thought and I am putting it to the attention of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Have I understood correctly that you assume that a further investigation will not bring any more to light? Does this mean that a further investigation will not be carried out? Let's be careful. That's all I'm asking. I do not want to assume that something has happened here, I do not want to say, but I think we can always learn lessons. Questioning may not be such a bad advice for your successor or for those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u27	I would like to answer another question. I think we all have some life experience and also in non-penitentiary circumstances are faced with deaths that we do not know exactly what caused. Many people's doubts will then be removed by an autopsy. That's all I wanted to say. A prison is by definition an environment in which the next of kin ask questions. I understand that very well. That's why I'm saying it. I have had a long time left with the Director-General of the penitentiary. That's a very experienced and sincere man. That man hasn't been on vacation this summer. He was aware of the whole thing. He has no indication that this has been an abnormal death. You should also know that there was only one hour and forty minutes between the first and the second vision of the patient concerned, the prisoner concerned. It really happened very quickly, as far as I can tell. I really think it is worth thinking deeply about such cases in order to rest assured that we have done nothing wrong. I honestly don't believe it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 55008023C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u29	Madam President,Mr Minister, following my question on 19 May last year in the Commission, you refused to comment on the Chinese espionage in Belgium and you indicated to me that "the Sûrete de l'Etat is also working on protecting the economic and scientific potential" in Belgium. Now it turns out that two Chinese have been charged in the US for cyberattacks that targeted scientific institutions involved in the fight against the Covid-19 but also many companies, including a Belgian IT company.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u30	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, with regard to other ongoing criminal investigations, the Public Prosecutor's Office allows me to inform you that "the data bank of the College of Attorneys General does not allow answers to the question. Indeed, this databank does not allow the identification of possible links between facts which are the subject of a case opened in a prosecutor's office of a foreign government." I would add, moreover, for your understanding that, while the Federal Prosecutor's Office may be involved in this type of case, this competence is shared between the various local prosecutors' offices. State Security is conducting awareness-raising campaigns on the risks posed by Chinese activities to the various actors. Most of these awareness-raising activities include an aspect related to cyber-threat. The service cannot disclose details of specific cases. However, it must be recognised that the detection and analysis of cyber attacks against Belgian entities requires a specific undertaking and substantial means. This is why the State Security also relies on the expertise of its domestic and foreign partners. National and international cooperation was indeed crucial. On the matter concerned, Belgium has already reacted diplomatically by giving priority to the European level through our contributions to the debates and our support to the statements of the High Representative Borrell. The attribution of cyber attacks is a specific process. The Minister of Foreign Affairs directs me to inform you that, given the increasing number of cyber attacks, the FPS Foreign Affairs has taken the initiative to develop a national decision-making procedure for this purpose in collaboration with other federal actors, such as intelligence and security services. This draft procedure has been submitted to the other partners and will be submitted shortly to the National Security Council. Once this procedure has been adopted, the decision on the possible attribution of future cyberattacks can be taken effectively and within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. I had already received the Foreign Affairs section. Beyond the risk of cybercrime, it is indeed a political issue, since a foreign government, in this case China, allows itself to obstruct the fundamental freedoms of our fellow citizens. The federal government must therefore protect the rights and freedoms of the Belgian population vis-à-vis cybercrime acts directed from foreign governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u32	Mrs Bury, as far as your first question is concerned, the General Prosecutor of Antwerp has provided me with the following information. I quote: "The College of the Public Prosecutor has questioned all the prosecutors of the King with regard to the performance of the service. The responses are expected by the end of September 2020." With regard to your second question concerning the issue of a standard directive, I should like to remind you that probation committees are courts presided over by judges. In view of the separation of powers, as Minister of Justice, I cannot give instructions to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u33	Minister, we will look at those figures at the end of September, but I think I read that you yourself would discuss whether a standard directive was better. You say that they have the right to decide on their own, but I think I remember that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u34	I have no problem with directives that judges try to agree to, but I cannot impose them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u35	Minister, we have had to take note of the murder of a politician from Aalst with great dismay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Bury, during the current legislature, there have been enormous efforts in the field of police and justice, both operationally and politically, in the fight against intra-family violence. The issue has remained a priority for police and public prosecutors and has been included as such in the framework paper, the national action plan against gender-related violence and the National Security Plan. Criminal policy has been adapted to allow more vigorous and efficient action against partner violence. I refer you to the updated guidelines against intra-family violence. The instruments to allow the police and the police to intervene quickly in the event of a risky situation, such as the imposition of a house and contact ban and a risk assessment tool, have also been adapted. They allow a rapid response, which does not yet involve criminal proceedings, but leaves room for alternative recovery solutions. There have been many hearings, often followed or preceded by consultations with my policy cell and with various actors, with a view to taking new measures on the part of the police and the judiciary. I refer you to my answers and explanations in the Committee on Justice but also in the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation. However, the usefulness of even higher levels of punishment, even stricter criminal prosecution and heavier custodial sentences must be questioned, given the destructive effect of the punishment and its limited preventive forward-looking effect. Serious penalties do not always prove to be a guarantee against recidivism. The limits of what can only be achieved by criminal law in this area may be almost reached. A more efficient approach requires an integrated and integrated approach to all relevant policies and departments, starting with general prevention and education and ensuring a rapid response to facts. For this purpose, for example, the generalisation of case consultation and case coordination, as is the case in Intrafamilial Justice Centres with the sharing of professional secrecy under the supervision of the public prosecutor, is absolutely necessary. New initiatives are currently being discussed between the federal government and the Länder authorities in the new IMC Women's Rights. It will be up to the next federal government to implement them further together with the governments of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u37	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. There has indeed been some changes, but there is certainly still work to be done. Many people are involved in situations of years of violence, and when they complain, they are often unbelievable and are the word against. The compulsory training of magistrates will help to identify those situations more easily and to facilitate the picking out of those who are guilty of violence. In the fact that there is a limit to the severity of the punishments, my party is opposed to yours. You see a prison sentence as the ultimatum remedium, we assume that even the lightest and shortest prison sentences must be carried out. After all, it is a signal: up to here and no further. In the Netherlands, a lot of prisons have been built up and prison sentences have to be served. And what's the result? There are many prisons empty, because people know very well that they fly into prison, no matter how short, if they pick something wrong. We continue to work for this, even though it is not included in the reforms of the Criminal Code. After all, the citizens expect us to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u38	Minister, on the morning of Wednesday 24 June, a prison officer from Leuze-en-Hainaut prison was the victim of an attack. This person, who was on the night shift, was hit with a white weapon and had to receive hospital care. Can you tell me why this attack may have occurred? Have all safety standards been met? Have any arrangements been made to prevent this type of incident from happening again? Has there been any consultation between unions and management? What came out of that meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u39	Mrs.Dedonder, the incident of June 4th occurred when the luncheon was distributed. The inmate wanted to have lunch and dinner as well as dessert at once. He dropped the dessert, took off, grabbed a knife and pursued one of the two agents in charge of opening the door. He is a prisoner with mental instability. All the usual security measures have been taken. In addition, I would like to inform you that a basic consultation committee already planned before the incident has nevertheless stood in a serene spirit and allowed the unions to formulate constructive proposals, which the management of the prison in Leuze will not fail to examine. On the other hand, the inmate who committed the attack was promptly transferred to another institution. The initial training of prison supervision assistants takes into account the problem of violence, in particular in the course of crisis management and in the communication course. It addresses the management and resolution of conflicts and acts of violence. Finally, the self-defence and learning course on violence control techniques also addresses conflict prevention and management, including through the five-phase model. However, it is important to also build on the concept we call "dynamic security": good consultation and a calm relationship between staff and detainees are indeed the best conditions for maintaining a peaceful climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u40	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers and indeed hope that all the good intentions you have just mentioned will be followed by facts, so that this kind of incident does not happen again and that the unions can actually be heard by management.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u41	Minister, as soon as they arrive at the prison, the detainees are placed in quarantine. This measure is clearly understandable in the light of the health crisis. However, it appears that, in practice, these detainees do not have the opportunity to adequately prepare their defence due to difficulties in contacting and interviewing their lawyer. According to the prison authorities, these contacts are not impossible because telephone interviews are still permitted, but are, however, the responsibility of the detainees. In addition, lawyers may visit the VOCID wing of the prison with an FFP2 mask. Detainees can only see their lawyer at the end of their quarantine, which is particularly problematic, especially if opposition periods are in progress. Inmates placed in solitary confinement are not transferred to the council chamber and therefore cannot present themselves before the judge. Minister, these detainees are today subject to a triple sentence. They are not only isolated and deprived of their family, but now they are deprived of a lawyer and a judge. This situation has been strongly criticized by the International Prison Observatory (OIP) but also by Michel Forges, the batonnier of the French Bar Association of Brussels, who sent you a letter in mid-August in which he denounces "unacceptable measures for the rights of citizens and imposed without any consultation". He thus told you to face a case where disobedience imposed on lawyers. I therefore had to question you, minister. What measures are in place to ensure that persons in pre-trial and isolated detention have effective access to counsel from a lawyer due to the health crisis, as well as to ensure proper and confidential interviews between lawyers and their clients? Will they be set up in consultation with the bar associations? What measures are in place to guarantee hearings before the board? Will FFP2 masks be made available to lawyers with clients in pre-trial detention to facilitate visual contact between them? In the Justice Committee on May 6, you explained that the decision to reduce the price of telephone conversations or to offer them free of charge is up to the firm to which the contract for the additional credits awarded to inmates was awarded. Therefore, are there any talks in place to make all of the detainees' telephone calls free of charge with their lawyers and relatives, in any case as long as the visits are restricted due to the health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u42	Minister, my concern is with that of my colleague. Indeed, we have learned, through a communication from the Belgian section of the OIP, that new measures have been taken to manage the health crisis and that these have a significant impact on the right to a fair trial. I am not going to go back to the details, but my colleague has developed them extensively. I am measuring, Minister, the balance to be struck between managing the pandemic and ensuring the right to a fair trial. These issues actually arise within the prison in the same way as they arise outside the prison; that is, what balance is struck between respect for fundamental freedoms and measures taken to prevent the explosion of new cases. I measure it very well. Mr Minister, first of all, do you confirm the situation as described by my colleague? This quarantine, which can be understood when an inmate arrives, has the effect of not allowing him to see his lawyer. Factually and objectively, do you confirm these facts? Was this new circular addressed only to Brussels prisons? It would seem that it was only in Brussels, that was what was communicated. How can the shot be corrected if necessary? If you were to confirm this, how can you correct the shot to guarantee the right to a fair trial in a context of health crisis management? Is this August 11 circular really only for Brussels establishments? We know that they have been particularly affected and vulnerable to the crisis, but does this circular really concern only these Brussels prisons? I will listen carefully to your answer, minister. It is true that my difficulty with this issue is precisely because I measure the balance between the management of the pandemic and the rights of our inmates. I am thinking of a question that comes up later on the emotional life of our inmates. The interests of some are not always those of others. In my view, the issue of managing this balance, in order for it to be accepted by all, both in prison and elsewhere, must be dealt with in concert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u43	Ladies, since different means of communication are available for consultations with lawyers and visits (telephone, mail and visits), contact is always possible. When the lawyer wishes to meet his client and is not in possession of a mask, the prison can provide him with one, as was always the case. No complaints were found in practice concerning this procedure in force at Saint-Gilles prison and there were no problems. The lawyer is informed that his client is in medical isolation and is offered to be contacted by telephone. The detainees have a cell phone. The lawyer can leave a written message if he wishes. He can see his client within the wing by respecting the preventive measures set out in Brussels prisons. All prisoners entering prisons are therefore placed in preventive isolation by taking a VOCID-19 test. It is then up to the doctor to decide whether this measure should be lifted. Of course, all such inmates can consult their lawyers on the basis of preventive measures; these measures are implemented according to the recommendations concerning community life. This implies, in particular, that these detainees in medical isolation are not normally transferred to the courthouse. The judicial authorities shall be informed accordingly. If they believe that the inmate must appear in person, they may give instructions to do so. This transfer is then carried out according to the appropriate protective measures. With regard to your question about the provision of masks, masks have always been made available to lawyers as well as visitors if they so wish. In the case of telephone calls, the decision to reduce the price of telephone conversations or to offer them free of charge is in fact the decision of the company to which the contract was awarded. These elements remain unchanged. In addition, during the containment phase, free credits for telephone communications were granted to detainees. This measure has not been implemented since the holding of the visits by videoconference and following the reintroduction of the visits. The communication of 11 August emanated from Saint-Gilles prison and was addressed to the batnier. It is therefore not a circular but a letter of information for lawyers, which is transmitted in the interests of transparency. This communication took place locally with a view to good collaboration and with the aim of informing about preventive measures since the prison regularly receives questions from investigating judges and lawyers. The wearing of the FFP2 mask appears to be logical since the detainees are in medical isolation. The wearing of the mask also concerns all staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u44	Minister, I thank you for your answers, although, as very often, I must regret a hiatus between theory and practice. Just to cite the example of the Saint-Gilles prison, it is known that a series of complaints had to be reported by lawyers who had not been able to meet their clients. You tell us that inmates have the phone in their cells and that their lawyers can leave voice messages for them. This in no way replaces a proper interview that allows detainees and their lawyers to properly prepare their defences. This is regrettable because these meetings are a precondition for the very exercise of the right to a fair trial. This is all the more fundamental since these people have the presumption of innocence. Yes, as we know, today we are in a very special context which requires specific health rules but health rules which must be equally balanced and which therefore do not in any way excuse a very important restriction of fundamental rights. Today, however, it comes back to us every day that detainees have found themselves facing a judge without having been able to properly prepare their defence with a lawyer. This is a violation of the rights of the defence that is not justified, VOCID-19 or not. In a more practical way, you explain to us that detainees are quarantined, tested upon arrival, etc. Still happy, do I want to say! Therefore, I wonder. As you know, a debate is under way on the shortening of the quarantine period. Some experts recommend reducing it to seven days, others to ten days. I hope that if the National Security Council opts for one of these options, prisoners, like citizens outside the prison, will also be able to benefit from this short quarantine. I also hope that you will draw the attention of your colleagues to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u45	Minister, like my colleague, I note the gap between the answers we receive and the reality we are told. I take note of the fact that when a lawyer does not have a mask, he is provided with it. That's not the information we had. It is now an act and lawyers will be able to avail themselves of it. We can continue to argue, which is really not my intention. I'm more interested in finding solutions. Minister, could we not consider, for these prisoners who are systematically placed in quarantine, i.e. new entrants, to activate the measure that had been taken in time of pandemic, i.e. free calls and/or videoconference, so that, pending, either the next council or physical contacts, they can have free access to these contacts with their lawyer. It seems to me that this would be a first step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u46	Mrs Bury, I have put your question to the Attorney General of Brussels, who tells me: "Because it is an oral question, it is not possible to provide statistics as a matter of urgency. Even if it concerns a written question, the public prosecutor's database does not allow any encryption that would allow the detection of specific files relating to residence fraud. These files, if they exist, are generally coded under tax fraud. The last reform of Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular the una via-procedure on tax fraud introduced by the Law of 5 May 2019, was aimed at preventing criminal proceedings for offences where the investigation revealed serious evidence of serious tax fraud, organised or not. The other, more simple files of tax fraud are handled administratively by the FPS Finance Administrations. In this case, the files on residence fraud do not seem to raise any problems of serious, organized or non-organised tax fraud. Therefore, it follows from the ratio legis of the above-mentioned Law of 5 May 2019 that these files are essentially subject to administrative punishment rather than criminal penalties. In that sense, it is correct that such cases are not a priority for the prosecution." It follows from the answer given by the Attorney General that the fight against residence fraud and its tax consequences are primarily the responsibility of the tax administrations at the various levels concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u47	First of all, Minister, the figures are not too recent. It is therefore difficult to say that the figures are not of such magnitude that there would be a problem. After corona, a lot of people went to live in the coastal communities. The figures must therefore be retrieved and, if they cannot be requested, they must be reviewed. They should not be considered under the broad heading of tax fraud. They need to be highlighted. It makes a huge difference to live there, so to speak. In some municipalities, the municipal tax amounts to 0 %, whereas in others, for example, it amounts to 7.2%. There is also a huge loss of revenue for the state. This should therefore be given priority. I therefore completely disagree with the view that these matters should be dealt with purely administratively and not criminally. It is very important that the address for service, the official address where all the correspondence that the State carries with us, is correct. We cannot simply wipe our feet at it, and so I do not think it is enough simply to impose an administrative fine on it. That's not the right signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u48	In February 2020 it was announced that the Centre for Integrity (CINT) had conducted an investigation into possible irregularities in the Gaming Commission. The CINT would have reached astonishing findings and conclusions. Five serious integrity violations were identified. These include misuse of public funds, intercepting e-mails, abuse of power and accepting the benefits of gaming companies. As a result of this investigation, on 25 February this year, you put the summit of the Gaming Commission on an inactive basis. At the beginning of March, I questioned you about this in Parliament. We're six months away now. In the meantime, has there been any further investigation into possible irregularities? What conclusions could be drawn from this? Are the persons concerned still inactive or have any other measures been taken in the meantime with regard to them or part of them? If so, which one and why? There was also a judicial investigation. What stage is this judicial investigation at? What charges does it focus on? In March, a crisis manager was appointed to the secretariat of the Game Commission. In the meantime, have more structural measures been taken? If so, which one? If not, why not? In the meantime, did you have your cabinet, represented on the Gaming Commission, examined whether it was aware of the irregularities or whether it should have been aware of them? If so, what is the conclusion of that investigation? If not, why not? Finally, you announced in March that you would like to reform the Gaming Commission. What steps have you taken to achieve this? What steps do you want to take? Do you already have a view of the desired structure? When do you intend to carry out a reform? I realize that the latter question might be a little more difficult to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u49	Mr Van Hecke, I am glad that you regard the continuity of the world as a fixed fact. Based on the findings reported by the Centre Integrity, the Brussels Office opened an investigation into possible illegal access to the e-mail messages of members and employees of the Gaming Commission. The prosecutor informed me that the investigation is in the final phase and that a decision can be made soon. Neither I nor I, as far as I could find out, my advisers responsible for this matter were aware of the precise facts that led to the report. When the report was presented to me, I immediately took action. The persons who were put on inactive as a result of the report are still inactive. Given the current procedure, I cannot provide any additional information. It is an undeniable fact that the context in which the crisis manager and the new chairman took up their duties was not easy. Nevertheless, a number of structural measures were taken. For example, a new organogram was drawn up which provided for the establishment of the Controls and Sanctions Service. Within the reworked staff plan, two vacant places have already been published. In addition, a training plan is being developed. In consultation with the federal police, a convention was drawn up between the police and the Gaming Commission on the rules governing the deployment of police officers, as provided for in Article 15 (3) of the Gaming Act. A new police officer was also appointed. At its meeting on 30 June 2020, the Gaming Commission adopted a regulation that will systematically publish any opinion, as is the case, for example, with the Data Protection Authority and with the Supreme Court of Justice. I believe that the structure of the Gaming Commission should be thoroughly and fundamentally remembered, in the womb of a government with full authority. The challenges of advertising and the virtual presence of games of chance have steadily increased in recent years. There is room to adapt the legal framework to the changed circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to learn that the investigation is in the final phase. It seems important to me that the investigations can be concluded in a relatively short time, as this has caused some turmoil. The Gaming Commission is an important player and must ensure the correct application of the legislation and the proper granting of permits. I take note that there is a new organogram and that a new police officer was appointed. This is essential for the proper functioning of the Gaming Commission. It is also a good thing that the opinions will be published. You rightly refer to bodies such as the Data Protection Authority, which actually publishes its opinions. This improves transparency. Since there are regular questions about the opinions issued, it seems to me that their publication is a good step forward. You know that we are in favour of a thorough reform of the Gaming Commission. That does indeed require some work for the future. I hope that the Gaming Commission will be able to take a fresh start and at least carry out its important task as best it can. There's another question on the agenda from me about the gambling world. I hope that the problems of the past will not arise again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u51	Minister, when the royal decrees on the management of the pandemic were passed, we had an exchange on the effect of the suspension of sentences on the suspension of sentences. You had guaranteed that you had taken your assurances that the device was in legal order. An inmate who had benefited from the measure of interruption of the execution of his sentence brought an appeal after having seen his request for electronic surveillance inadmissible, precisely because of the suspension of the execution of his sentence: the period had been frozen. As a result, the deadline for eligibility for electronic monitoring had been extended accordingly. On 19 August, the Court of Cassation issued its judgment finding that the suspension of the execution of the sentence contravenes articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution on equality of rights. Thus "The needs of the fight against the spread of VOCID-19 cannot justify that the convicted persons who are granted the interruption of the execution of the sentence provided for in Article 6, § 1, of Royal Decree No. 3 of 9 April 2020, whose conditions they must comply with, are deprived of the attribution of the duration of this interruption on the execution of their sentence. By applying Article 6, § 2, of the Royal Decree as the basis for its decision, the contested judgment violates the constitutional provisions and disregards the general principle of the above-mentioned law." Minister, how do you welcome this judgment? What are the consequences for all prisoners who have benefited from an interruption of sentence and, therefore, what practical and concrete follow-up do you intend to bring to this judgment of the Court of Cassation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u52	Minister, on 19 August, the Court of Cassation confirmed that the time that detainees spent outside the prison during the pandemic did not extend the expiry date of their sentences. This is a particularly important decision for the rights of detainees. Indeed, it was illogical for them to see their sentence interrupted in a moment of complete confinement that did not in fact grant them any real freedom, because with important conditions. They found themselves confined inside their home, certainly – and this is appreciable – by finding themselves, for some, as a family. Under criminal law, convicted persons become free citizens again in the event of an interruption of sentence and cannot therefore be subject to any conditions. These conditions were found to be illegal both by courts of enforcement and by the Court of Cassation. It should therefore be considered that the time spent outside of prison during this difficult period is a form of prison leave that does not interrupt the length of the sentence. The International Prison Observatory welcomes this ruling of the Court of Cassation, but regrets that its request for remission of sentences for detainees who remained in prison during confinement has not been taken into account, despite the disastrous living conditions they have suffered. Minister, how do you react to this judgment of the Court of Cassation? How many prisoners have benefited from this temporary release and what is the average sentence rate for prisoners who have benefited from it? What are you thinking about the inmates who have been locked up? Do you intend to grant them some kind of compensation to compensate for the conditions of detention during confinement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u53	Minister, as part of the fight against the spread of VOCID-19, we took a Royal Order of Special Powers No. 3 dated April 9. Article 6(2) provides: "The interruption of the execution of the sentence shall suspend the execution of the sentence for the duration of the measure". This paragraph has been discussed at length in committee, not to say criticized and contested on the substance. We must now observe that a judgment of the Court of Cassation of 19 August 2020 invalidated the second paragraph, considering that the days of interruption of sentence must be counted as days of sentence served. This interpretation was given, taking the view that the measure in question must be similar to the principle of prison leave, and not to the principle of the execution of the sentence, as set out in articles 6 and 15, § 2, respectively, of the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status. As a result, and since this option was reserved only for certain categories of detainees, could you tell us, minister, whether some detainees, following their return to prison, served a longer sentence than the sentence to which they were originally sentenced as a result of this suspension deemed illegal? If so, will there be a compensation mechanism in place for these individuals? What mechanism and security have you put in place to adequately process, verify and count the prison holidays for all prisoners who have benefited from this measure in previous months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 508 prisoners were given the opportunity to spend some time out of prison as part of the fight against the VOCID-19 pandemic. This applies to persons who had already completed their prison leave in an appropriate manner and who were eligible for extended prison leave for the duration of the VOCID-19 pandemic. The average sentence for these 508 detainees is five years and seven months. Following the judgment of the Court of Cassation, the period spent by detainees outside the prison does not need to be caught. In other words, these days are counted as days of detention. As Minister of Justice, I obviously respect this judgment of the Court of Cassation. The Department of Corrections will take the necessary steps to comply with the Act. Specifically, the interruptions in the execution of the VOCID-19 sentence were converted into prison leave, resulting in an adjusted calculation of the eligibility or termination dates. This exercise has only been carried out with respect to convicted persons who are still serving their sentences, i.e. who are either still in detention or who benefit from a form of execution of the sentence, including parole. For the latter category, the public prosecutors in the enforcement court and the court itself were informed of any changes in the date of eligibility and of the end of the sentence and of the trial period. It appears that two detainees could have been released a few days earlier but were suspended. They were not physically detained. So that doesn't change their condition. Compensation for detainees who remained in detention during the VOCID-19 pandemic is currently not foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u55	Minister, thank you. I welcome the fact that all the days are counted and of course your respect for a court decision. On the other hand, I am astonished by an answer that you have given to a question that I have not asked. Indeed, you say that there is no provision for compensation for prisoners who have suffered damage. I am astonished at this statement in view of what you said earlier in referring to the fact that there were not many of them and that those who might have suffered harm were suspended and therefore had not been deprived of their liberty. It's not clear to me. Could you repeat the exact number? If there were no compensation, how many inmates should they have been involved? I'm not sure I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u56	Perhaps I should ask the question again, too? As far as I understand, there are three categories: those covered by the judgment of the Court of Cassation, the two suspended cases, for which nothing changes, and those who are still detained and for which you do not plan compensation. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u57	If you want me to address this issue in more detail, I will come back later to avoid providing you with information that may be inaccurate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u58	Perhaps, then, we could ask a question on this specific point. The aim is not to trap you, but to understand the situation with regard to damages and compensation. My colleagues and I will therefore table a new question in order to obtain more details on this last category.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. In my view, there is one element missing in the answer. You say that the measure was only taken in respect of those who, as of August 19, 2020, were still the subject of deprivation of liberty or other measures for the enforcement of sentences. This would mean that the examination would not have been carried out for all detainees who were allegedly released between 9 April and 19 August 2020 and that, therefore, the statistics of two suspended persons do not include the share of the 508 detainees who were actually released between 9 April and 19 August 2020. As a result, no factual examination was conducted for these individuals. I understand, however, that you prefer to say nothing rather than provide false information. I will therefore wait until next week for a more precise answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u60	Madam President, I would like to say to my colleagues that I rarely come to this committee and that there is a study atmosphere that differs from other committees. That's pretty impressive. Minister, on 1 July 2020, you signed an order allowing the extradition of a Chechen national on the grounds that the acts attributed to him are punishable in both Belgium and Russia. This extradition is also justified because the extradition request is not submitted in order to prosecute the person concerned on political, racial, religious grounds and that he/she would have all the possibilities of a fair defence. These justifications are, to say the least, surprising knowing that Russia was sentenced 198 times in 2019 by the European Court of Human Rights; this is more than any other country. These convictions were for violating the person's liberty and inviolability, for violating the right to a fair trial and for violating the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment. Belgium cannot therefore ignore the risks of extraditing this person to Russia. Minister, Amnesty International has often pointed to conditions of detention and proven cases of torture in Chechen prisons. What would be Belgium's responsibility for human rights violations against an extradited person? What are the guarantees that this person will not be subjected to inhuman treatment? Will Belgium ensure that a fair trial is held after extradition? In addition, in the case of proceedings for the possible recognition of refugee status, is there a suspension of extradition proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u61	Mr Moutquin, of course there are red lines not to be crossed on extradition. I'm very attached to it. But, of course, that one remains within these limits, it must be realised that refusing extradition means keeping on its territory a person suspected of having committed a crime, sometimes very serious, and in many cases without having the competence to prosecute it in Belgium. These red lines are defined in particular by the European Court of Human Rights. This is in particular the case-law known as Soering. The Belgian authorities are, of course, ensuring that our obligations in this context are respected. In the specific case you are targeting, commitments by the Attorney General of the Russian Federation have been obtained in terms of conditions of detention, the right to a fair trial and the death penalty. Moreover, this is a common crime. The Indictments Chamber issued an opinion in favour of extradition, without any restrictions. The application for suspension of the execution of the extradition lodged by the person concerned before the Council of State was also rejected. There is indeed a suspension of the extradition procedure when it concerns a person who has applied for recognition of refugee status, which Belgium systematically applies and which it has applied in this case. However, he was denied international protection first and second instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u62	Minister, I must confess that it is time for me to deepen certain elements. Because when you talk about red lines, in view of the elements I have mentioned to you about the human rights situation in Chechnya, I must say that I am surprised that these red lines are not crossed or will not be crossed in the near future. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u63	Minister, as we have already had the opportunity to discuss it in this committee, two transitional house pilot projects are under way: one in Malines, since 9 September 2019 and the other in Enghien since 14 January 2020. The management of these transition houses is entrusted to the private security company G4S, in partnership with Exodus Nederland. In our previous discussions, you had committed yourself to evaluating these devices at the end of the first year. Here we are for the first project! So, Minister, can you tell us what evaluation mechanism will be put in place for these two pilot projects? Can you also provide us with a schedule for this evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u64	Madam President, Mrs Leroy, Mrs De Wit, I have already stated in this committee that the projects of the transition houses are going through a learning process and that the results of the evaluations will be important for further start-up and enlargement. A distinction must be made between Mechelen and Enghien in a first phase. Mechelen's pilot project started on 1 September last year and was evaluated positively. An extension of one year was approved by the Council of Ministers in July. This summer, the aim is to submit to the Council of Ministers a dossier containing an evaluation of the Enghien Transition House and, in the event of a positive evaluation, the granting of the project, as well as an overall evaluation which could lead to an extension to some 100 places and which would cover the conditions under which it should be used. This work is carried out by management members as well as experts within the central administration of the Directorate General of Prisons. All actors actively involved in the process and operational functioning between prisons and the transitional house are consulted. The following aspects are the subject of an in-depth evaluation: the legal and regulatory framework, including the status of the detainee; the analysis and impact of standards; monitoring, inspection and monitoring; access to data banks; target groups; the process, which includes a quantitative analysis of incoming and outgoing flows, incidents and platforms for consultation; the analysis of target groups, stay and outgoing flows – I would like to stress that this is an important aspect and that the lessons to be learned from the past year are crucial in this regard – the financial component, which includes, in particular, the billing process and the analysis of the financial reports of the transitional house. In connection with the questions on working conditions at Mechelen, the FPS Justice has outsourced the pilot projects to G4S Care. These complaints are therefore dealt with by their internal services and not by the FPS Justice. As a result of your question, the employees of the competent department have checked with the operator at the FOD. It assures us that the conditions of employment are respected. In connection with your question about an ongoing investigation into possible price agreements, G4S confirms that no agreement concluded between the FPS Justice and G4S is the subject of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u65	Minister, thank you for this valuable information. Will these evaluations be made available to colleagues here? This could prove to be very valuable. Therefore, it would be worth sharing the evaluation of this pilot project to see if it should be extended. Without the information, it seems to me difficult to know whether this extension is desirable. I don't know if you remember that I once told you that, even if the central administration took this evaluation and stakeholders were consulted, an outside look – through research/action or academic studies, for example – could bring added value. Such an idea could still be included in the evaluation of the project in Enghien. A foresight that would take a little height would be very sensible and judicious. I would therefore like to stress the request for access to this assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u66	Madam President, Minister, I would like to conclude from your reply that the reports I have received on working conditions, insurance and meal cheques are not on the agenda. I assume that this can also be demonstrated by the evaluation. Or is this just the position that you were given? I don't know. In this context, it is certainly interesting, especially in view of the recent extension, to have access to that evaluation. I hope that this is correct, that everything has been done correctly, that there have been no price agreements or all the other things. I'd be delighted. I would be equally pleased to learn about that evaluation report. It is not so much about working conditions as such, but, of course, about working, to see how well it works, where there may still be pain points and how we can or will not be able to roll out that concept of transition homes in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u67	I had indeed asked a question on the current dossier concerning the Special Central Office for the Prevention of Corruption (CDBC) and the award of 15 million mouth masks to the Luxembourg company Avrox. Of course, I respect the secret nature of the research and I understand that you cannot give concrete elements of the research. However, I have a number of specific questions. Is the investigation still ongoing or has it been completed? In the latter case, will the Justice Department take any further steps? If the investigation is ongoing, can you outline at what stage it is at? Is it the final phase or the very beginning? What research actions have been made? Is it true that the CDBC did not speak to individuals, federations or traders, despite the fact that they indicated that they would like to be heard? Are there any other relevant elements that you can communicate at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u68	The investigation into the award of the mouth masks to the Luxembourg company Avrox is still ongoing, as I told you on 24 June 2020. I quote the information that the Attorney General of Brussels made available to me: "There were tasks assigned to the federal police. It is therefore not appropriate at this stage to communicate more about the content of this particular dossier."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u69	I take note of your answer and will wait another two months. If we haven't heard anything about the investigation by then, I'll ask you or a colleague a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u70	Minister, since the time I tabled my question, action has been taken and since Monday visits to inmates have been allowed again. So I will not read you my question, but I am simply asking you for the details of the organisation of these visits: how far are they allowed and within what limits? When the information came out, we all rejoiced. So could you set the framework for this, because in the wake of this announcement, we heard that the guards and the unions were rather opposed to this measure. That is what I referred to in my previous question: the difficult balance between the needs and rights of each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u71	Indeed, my colleague and I had tabled this question because it appeared from a white card signed by the OIP, CLAC, Genepi and the League of Human Rights that the out-of-watch visits (VHS) had been abolished while they constituted a real air bubble allowing detainees to enjoy real privacy. It is true that between the filing of our questions and today, a decision has been echoed to authorize the VHS which has been in effect since Monday, 14 September. We are pleased that the physical contacts during the visit to the table were also able to resume. This is an excellent thing in particular for inmates who are not allowed to leave. Nevertheless, the question of what justified this restriction of human rights remains open, and that is why we have maintained our question. Why was the resumption of these visits not decided earlier? I would also like to go back to a clarification that your office has communicated to the press that the limit on the number of different visitors per inmate (5 persons in total outside children under 12 years of age) still applies corresponds to the principle of the bubble of the five and it must therefore be maintained. From the moment we know that this concept of a social bubble is going to be reviewed by the new group of experts that has just been formed to reflect on the more social and psychological aspects of deconfining at the request of the Prime Minister, can you tell us whether this revision of the social bubble will also benefit inmates and their visitors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u72	Mrs Khattabi and Mrs Rohonyi, the visits are currently accompanied by protective measures such as social distancing measures or wearing the mask for any displacement. Videoconferencing visits are also organized. In addition, during confinement, free appeal credits were granted to inmates. This measure has not been implemented since the introduction of the video visit and the resumption of normal visits. We are monitoring the development of Covid-19 statistics with a view to making further adjustments, in accordance with the guidelines of the National Security Council and Sciensano. Thus, the easing process was ready at the beginning of July, but due to the sudden change in the number of contaminations, it was decided not to apply it yet. We reviewed the potential for relaxation, knowing that the impact of Covid-19 varies in each region of the country. In this regard, we sought the advice of Sciensano and the Prevention Advisor. From this week onwards, physical contacts between the inmate and his visitors are again allowed. In concrete terms, this means that unsupervised visits resume, that physical contacts during the table visit can again take place and that plexiglas protection is removed. It is essential to maintain both hygiene and protective measures as well as inspection instructions. It is the only way to protect each other and reduce the risk of the virus spreading. It is only if everyone (staff and detainees) within the prison takes up their responsibilities that we can allow these long-awaited easing measures to be introduced and maintained, subject to ongoing social consultation, which could result in some amendments to unsupervised visits and physical contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I said, we have heard the reaction of the unions to this openness. I also believe that some guards would not respect the rules themselves, particularly with regard to wearing the mask or social distancing, when they are in contact with the detainees. Indeed, I understand and share the concern of the unions. But I think that in order to allow everyone to see their rights respected, it also begins with the fact that everyone respects the rules of distancing, of individual protection, so that we can advance collectively, without risk to anyone, in the permission of these visits. If this is confirmed – I have said that I have heard it, I am not making any accusations; but in my opinion, it is necessary to check that the primary health protection measures are respected by each other, so as to minimise the risk of contamination without calling into question the rights of the detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u74	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers, although there is an answer that you have not given me, and I regret that it was to the question of why the relaxation that was decided was only so today. As much as the ban on unsupervised visits could be justified in the midst of a period of confinement, in March – it was decided on 14 March – so much so, when the pandemic figures were significantly down, I do not understand why this relaxation could not be decided at that time. I regret this, because the Dupont law enumerates a whole series of principles – it is the law of principle – one of which is fundamental and which I believe should guide all our choices in terms of prison policy, it is the principle of normalization, namely that prison conditions must be at most similar to those that exist outside the prison. Therefore, from the moment when the valve is released and social contacts are again allowed outside the prison, it is very difficult to audible and understandable for prisoners and their families not to be able to benefit from such flexibilities. I call on you to ensure that, whenever decisions are taken in the National Security Council, we do not forget the reality in our prisons too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u75	Madam Chair, Minister, the press is reporting 100,000 minutes from the prosecution for violations of the VOCID-19 measures. Particularly within the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal of Liège, 16,000 cases were reportedly opened, including 8,000 cases in the judicial district of Liège. Apart from the criminal transactions already paid and some rankings without follow-up, it remains that between 3,000 and 4,000 people are expected to appear before the police court in the coming weeks and months. These cases bring an additional burden for both the Court of Appeal of Liège and the other jurisdictions because of the firmness of the criminal policy requested during the period VOCID. Moreover, these paid transactions and fines handed down by the police courts will make it possible to raise large sums of money for the State budget. Minister, do you confirm the figures relayed by the press? How many transactions have already been paid and how many judgments have been handed down? What human resources have been allocated in judicial districts to strengthen registry staff and possibly magistrates? What amounts are currently being collected and what are the prospects for re-entry in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u76	Madam President, Ms Matz, in early September 2020, the College of Attorneys General published the Corona/COVID-19 figures of the Public Prosecutor's Office. On September 10, 2020, the Public Prosecutor's Office had recorded approximately 100,000 VOCID-related minutes since the beginning of the crisis, with 89,000 corrections cases and 11,541 cases in the youth prosecution offices, for a total of approximately 100,000 cases. The majority of these minutes were received in April and May, according to the College's report. The process of processing VOCID-19 fines has been digitised to the maximum by integrating it into the digital platform for collecting "Crossborder" fines. In this way, the VOCID minutes are already made available to justice in digital form. Crossborder is also responsible for sending and processing transactions digitally. In addition, it was possible to deal with fines through an immediate transaction by the police. For this process, smart QR code logbooks and payment terminals were made available to the police. This allows for the prompt and on-the-spot handling of a large part of the offences found, and in accordance with clear and uniform procedures. In order to provide maximum support to the public prosecutor's offices, part of the Crossborder team that previously dealt with road traffic offences was also deployed to support the public prosecutor's offices. For the part of the process that has not been digitized, additional persons are temporarily recruited for administrative treatment in the public prosecutor's offices. Just over 30,000 suspects have already paid for the proposed transaction. For 41,000 suspects, the case is still open. This means that so far the immediate transaction has not been paid, that the suspect's case has not yet been decided or that no other final decision has been taken. Approximately €6 million has already been collected through fines. In calculating processing capacity, it was estimated that 6.5 per cent of cases would eventually be brought before the court of judgment. At present, 1,826 suspects have already been tried and 5,119 other suspects are still being summoned to appear. Thank you, Madam Matz, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u77	Minister, thank you for the answers and statistics you provided to us. It is obvious that the purpose of my question was in no way to challenge the criminal policy that had been intended to be severe in relation to the offences. It was necessary and you mentioned that the most intense period was April-May, the containment period. So my point was not to dispute that. It sought to see how justice could absorb all this work. It seems that additional means have been provided to assist in the processing of these cases, with some new inputs and, if I understood correctly, a transfer of road safety to VOCID-19, which naturally, in time of confinement, could be understood since road safety offences were significantly reduced. But now this will prove to be inoperative in the short term, considering that road traffic offences have already to be dealt with again. We will come back in a few weeks with the same question because it is important to have follow-up on these offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u78	Minister, recently, the Apache news website has had access to the Facebook Group Thin Blue Line Belgium, with no fewer than 6,700 members and composed exclusively of police officers in office or pensioners, in respect of a reserved group. On these focus groups, at least one of which is now closed, there were, according to the press, racist or xenophobic comments and comments, others glorifying violence, "tricks and tricks" to circumvent regulation at the expense of the physical integrity of persons subject to police intervention. These unworthy remarks of our police have not failed us and are all the more unacceptable since they seem to have been the object of neither moderation by the group's administrators (police officers) nor of indignant reactions from the members of these groups. Since the press relayed this information, the federal police have stated that they are considering a disciplinary investigation. We are pleased to have been able to see reactions both in the head of the Commissioner General and the police administrators of the Facebook Belgium Blue Line group, claiming as the only official Thin Blue Line in Belgium. At its recent hearing, the Commissioner-General's comments on these groups suggested that these areas of discussion were encouraged or even supported by the hierarchy in a spirit of circulation of good practices within the law enforcement agencies. If we can hear that while we are surprised that such a process of communication between law enforcement agencies is not formalized internally, we must note that the disclosed content of this group is far removed from what can be described as an exchange of information. Minister, it seems necessary, in view of the important and vital role of our police and in order to legitimize their role and to guarantee their missions, to ensure that they are exemplary. In committee, the Commissioner-General invited officers who would make statements of this order to leave the police. If this is an important statement, it should be recalled that what is referred to here is, if the facts are confirmed, an offence. So what actions have been launched as a result of these revelations? Has a disciplinary procedure been initiated or has an investigating magistrate been seized of these facts? Since you are in charge of guardianship on the State Security, we have been able to hear in other hearings in this committee from official bodies that the threat of the far right is serious and increasing in Belgium. Some extreme right-wing groups are trying to arm themselves. Do you not think that it would be appropriate to ask the State Security to examine the possible presence of extreme right-wing groups within the State apparatus itself and, in particular, within the security forces? My group, in any case, invites you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u79	The administrators of this Facebook group have been formally informed by the Commissioner General by a clear message and a reminder of fundamental values such as respect for and quality of their role as administrators. They immediately archived this Facebook group, which means that it is no longer active but remains accessible for an internal or judicial investigation. In this regard, the General Inspectorate of the Federal and Local Police has drawn up an initial report for the attention of the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels, which has been notified to the Commissioner-General. The Public Prosecutor's Office authorizes me to communicate to you "that a criminal case has been opened and is at the moment at the information level". Subsequently, the Commissioner General issued the necessary instructions for the initiation of an internal investigation. A reminder regarding the rules for the use of social media will also be brought to the attention of all members of the integrated police force. In addition, the theme of racism is included in the internal campaign on respect that has already begun. As far as State Security is concerned, I can tell you that it is already doing what you are suggesting. If, as part of its follow-up to the far right, a member of the police receives the attention of the intelligence services, the case will be discussed in the right-wing Extremism working group, under Plan R, which examined the case of the Thin Blue Line group at the last meeting. Where appropriate, the person will be taken up in the common data bank to increase the sharing of information. The police are obviously informed. She also participated in the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad that information has been started. We will see how it will continue. I am also pleased that the State Security has taken up the case and is paying particular attention to it. Indeed, it cannot be admitted that armed groups of the far right can mobilize the State's resources for purposes other than those of general interest to which they are assigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u81	Madam President, Minister, on 22 August 2020, through the newspapers De Tijd and Echo, which are generally well informed in this area, we learned that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has a list of 2,600 Belgian clients from Crédit Suisse, who would not have reported their bank accounts to the tax administration or the revenues collected, and that there would be "black money" on the list. Minister, do you confirm the federal prosecutor's detention of this list? A criminal investigation would be opened with the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office on suspicion of money laundering and illegal exercise of the business of financial intermediary. Do you confirm this investigation and the suspicions on which it is based? More generally, the observation of the leaks in recent years allows the following conclusion, namely that banks, in particular Swiss banks, have been looking for the Belgian market for savings with high wealth and income potential for many years in an identical technical approach (absence of a branch in Belgium and clandestine prospecting by networks of commercial attachés through recreational activities or entertainment, activity clubs oriented towards this type of customer or to specific groups such as diamondmakers). This is the model used by UBS and HSBC banks. As Minister of Justice, guarantor of the rule of law, what recommendations have you made to the supervisory and regulatory bodies of the financial sector and its activities with regard to this issue? When? In particular, with regard to the UBS and HSBC files, an investigating judge had been promptly appointed. In the present case, does an investigating judge have or will he be appointed to conduct an investigation in respect of the bank Crédit Suisse. If not, for what reason? Finally, are judicial instructions for certain clients mentioned in the list held by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office being considered or implemented? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u82	Mr Gilkinet, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office provided me with the following information: "The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office confirms that it has received a list of 2,600 Belgian clients who have held unreported bank accounts with the Belgian tax administration in the Crédit Suisse bank. An investigation is under way within the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office into the Swiss bank's actions in relation to acts of tax fraud, money laundering and illegal financial intermediary activity. This case is at the judicial information stage. The elements of the file do not allow us to quantify at present the amounts fraudulently committed to the detriment of the Belgian tax authorities. International judicial cooperation is essential in such cases and institutions such as Europol and Eurojust facilitate police and judicial cooperation in the fight against financial crime. The same will soon be true of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which will be the new European body responsible for combating major cross-border crime, which undermines the European Union's budget. It is expected to start its activities at the end of 2020 and first and foremost in the 22 participating European Union countries. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will be the first independent and decentralised public prosecutor's office in the European Union. It will be empowered to investigate, prosecute and bring to justice the perpetrators of offences against the EU budget such as fraud, corruption and serious cross-border VAT fraud." As far as Mr Gilkinet's questions are concerned, I refer him to my colleague and Minister of Finance, Mr Gilkinet. De Croo, because this matter falls within his competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u83	Minister, thank you. I have indeed put questions to your colleague, the Minister of Finance. I am interested, through you, in the judicial aspect of the case, which is particularly worrying by its scope and well-documented since you confirm to me the existence of this list with the prosecutor's office. The case is at the level of judicial information. There is a prospect of having a European Public Prosecutor's Office, but pending an effective European Public Prosecutor's Office, it seems to me that it is the very type of case that should be given priority by the justice services in financial matters, because it is an example and because tax fraud is very costly for public finances which are poorly developed. You told my colleagues that this might be one of your last sessions as Minister of Justice. You have a few days left to try to speed up the case with respect for the independence of the judicial institutions. Thank you in advance, Minister. This may be the last question I ask you as Minister of Justice, and I thank you again for the cordiality of our discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u84	Madam President, Minister, this Monday, August 31, the Rwanda Investigative Office (RIB) declared that political opponent Paul Rusesabagina had been arrested by the Rwandan police and was detained in Kigali. He was the subject of an international arrest warrant. Mr. Rusesabagina has, following the Rwandan genocide, been a refugee in Belgium where he has since resided. I even learned that he acquired Belgian nationality. He is therefore a Belgian citizen. He is also an assumed opponent of President Paul Kagame's regime, whose organisation Human Rights Watch accuses the regime of arbitrary arrests, ill-treatment, intimidation and torture against political opponents. The reason for this question lies in the opacity of the circumstances of Mr Rusesabagina's arrest, since he resides on Belgian soil and is a Belgian citizen. In addition, the OIR stated that the arrest had taken place through international cooperation while indicating that it did not wish to disclose which country(s) had been involved in the execution of this international arrest warrant. We have since learned that Mr. Rusesabagina had travelled to the United Arab Emirates and from there, taking a plane, he ended up in Kigali against his will, not knowing how the plane landed in Kigali. A quick reaction from the spokesman for the Federal Prosecutor's Office indicated that "the Belgian Federal Prosecutor's Office knew that Paul Rusesabagina was the target of an international arrest warrant and was informed by Rwanda of his arrest, but has no details of the circumstances". Minister, could you please tell me whether Belgium has actively or passively cooperated in the arrest of Mr Rusesabagina? If so, what justification is there for such cooperation even though Mr Rusesabagina lives in exile in Belgium and the Rwandan regime is seriously criticized for respecting the rights of political opponents? If not, did your intelligence inform you of the location of the arrest? Does the government intend to inquire about Mr Rusesabagina's fate, especially since he has become a Belgian citizen? [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u85	Mr Aouasti, the Federal Prosecutor's Office confirms to me that the Belgian judicial authorities did not intervene in any way in the arrest of Paul Rusesabagina – neither actively nor passively. The Federal Prosecutor's Office was informed of this by a telephone call from the Attorney General of Rwanda on Sunday, 30 August. However, they were not provided with any information as to the country in which he was arrested or the circumstances of his arrest. However, I can confirm that it was not in Belgium. In addition, a case concerning Paul Rusesabagina has been opened by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and concerns acts described as "participation in the activities of a terrorist group". This case was opened following the issuance of an international arrest warrant issued by the Rwandan authorities and because of the impossibility for Belgium to extradite the person concerned, having regard to his Belgian nationality. This case was brought to trial in July 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am also informed of this, since Mr Rusesabagina had been heard before the holidays in the context of this dossier relating to a group which, I have checked recently, is not on the European and Belgian list of terrorist organisations. I have received some answers, but there is one missing from my last question: in view of Mr Rusesabagina's Belgian nationality, what is the government planning to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u87	Minister, the management of exhibits was reviewed by the Act of April 25, 2014. The Act introduced a new section into the Criminal Investigation Code, including the destruction of seized property. The law provides that the costs of destruction and sampling are costs of justice. So far, this new provision was not a problem because it was exceptional cases and sampling was carried out by a specialized department, in this case the federal police science laboratory. However, this year, a number of local prosecutors' offices have drafted a permanent note for the attention of the police in order to generalize the sampling of narcotics and the destruction of surplus by the latter. This procedure can no longer be carried out by the scientific laboratory of the Federal Police, but will be carried out by the police areas, whereas the related budgetary resources have not been transferred at this stage. Police areas will have to be equipped with a suitable structure and equipment: local with air filtration system to store and carry out samples, protective clothing, etc. Minister, why have local prosecutors opted for such a solution while the federal police science laboratory has been carrying out this mission so far? Have you discussed the financial consequences of this permanent note with your counterpart from the Interior? Will the federal government fund this new mission for local police areas? Does the standing note provide for training of personnel responsible for sampling and cleaning the premises?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u88	In order to improve the management and security of seized goods and evidence, several initiatives have been taken in the past legislature, such as automating the management of beliefs in the PACOS project, a new letter from the College of Attorneys General for the management of dangerous beliefs, the removal of dangerous beliefs from judicial palaces, the centralisation of beliefs per district, the optimisation of the security of court buildings and the legal possibility of detention outside the Registry. The PACOS ICT project of police and justice is a database that records through a unique number all movements that make the piece from the seizure by the police until the final decision. Currently there are training courses and the connection between the PACOS database and the MACH database is improved. This autumn, a phased roll-out of this programme will be launched in court. The College of Attorneys General is working on a new circular for the management of exhibits. An important political measure is the use of samples of the narcotics that have been seized to destroy the remainder of these narcotics. The draft is now being submitted for consultation to all parties concerned, including local prosecutors and the local police, through their permanent local police commission. This circular will replace local instructions. The FPS Justice has carried out previous legislative work on the removal of dangerous substances from the justice palaces, in line with welfare legislation, without, however, removing their probative force. For each of the types of hazardous material, the new letter will clarify how the probative power can be preserved. For the future, it has been chosen to allow the preservation of the beliefs to take place in more centrally secured depots. The decision in principle was approved by the budget authorities. The Government of the Buildings is currently conducting a market investigation to find suitable depots. In 2018, the Royal Decree of 24 March 1936 on the holding at the Registry was amended to provide a legal basis for keeping the documents outside the Registry, for example with a specialist provider. In anticipation, the supervisory and management staff are responsible for the security of the building, in consultation with the police forces. If there are temporary personnel problems, Justice has the opportunity to engage private partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u89	Minister, in relation to the questions I asked, it means that it is submitted. Is it submitted for opinion, and therefore it is not decided, and can we still say no? Or is it submitted out of politeness and it will happen anyway? Nor do I have the answer on the budget. It was a federal budget, and now it will have to be borne by local police areas. Is there a budget transfer or not? If not, we have a problem at the local level, one more. At the federal level, I would like to know where this budget will be allocated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u90	Madam President, Minister, you have given a rather long answer, just to say that depots are going to be searched and that there is currently a market investigation. It is good news, after all that we have heard in the press in recent years. It is good that the PACOS database follows all of this, but once that just disappears, it is of little use that the piece has been followed in all possible buildings if it can simply disappear by someone who just walks in. With regard to those depots and that market research, I did not really hear a time limit. When will that be completed? You don't know that. Then I can ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u91	The next item is the question by Mrs Khattabi concerning the treatment of tuberculosis in prisons, No. 55008480C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u92	Madam President, in order to save some time, I propose to turn my question into a written question. Minister, I will read your answers, since it was a matter of reviewing certain procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u93	Mrs Katthabi, I shall therefore send you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u94	Mr President, for the figures for public prosecutors' dismissals, please refer to the website of the College of Attorneys General. There you will find statistics on the inflow and outflow of past years for the correctional parquets, including final decisions by type of charge per parquet. The statistics are not so detailed that they allow thefts to be committed quickly in stations and trains by foreign perpetrators. The impact of this measure on the workload is therefore difficult to assess. The claim that the French-speaking judges would be more lenient than the Dutch-speaking judges cannot be backed up by concrete figures. Its accuracy requires a more in-depth and long-term examination than the time frame of an oral question allows. The Brussels parish took this initiative itself without consulting me or informing me. I understand that this procedure applies to foreigners who do not speak any of the national languages. In that respect, nothing changes the language laws. A French-speaking Belgian will be tried in French, a Dutch-speaking Belgian in Dutch. As regards the claim that this would be a result of underfunding, I would point out that in 2014 the framework of the French-speaking court of Brussels as a result of the BHV reform was increased by 22 magistrates. With the vacancies published this spring, the court will reach an effective of 117 magistrates. That is 20 French-speaking magistrates more than the court counted for the BHV-revoming. As mentioned earlier in this committee, the staff budget for the judicial system is higher today than it was five years ago. In December 2017, the Supreme Court of Justice effectively audited personnel policy. Not only in the Brussels court, but in all the courts of first instance. The result of this audit can be found on the website of the Supreme Court. The recommendations are addressed to various stakeholders. Since the end of 2019, the French-speaking court has a new President after the Council had not extended the mandate of the previous President. She is aware of the challenges of this court.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u95	Thank you, Minister. I'm just gonna go over my questions. My last question was about the difference in penalties. You say that there is actually a need for a more in-depth investigation. This must be done as a matter of urgency. Look at the difference in penalties between the French and Dutch courts. The other questions concern the ratio of the funds provided. We see that Dutch-speaking courts are taxed more by passing these cases on to them. You say that we see that the number of magistrates has increased since the BHV reform. There's 20 more. But you're talking about the French language. But that's not my question. I'm talking about the Dutch language. Is there an increase in the workload and should they be better supported?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is still a bizarre e-mail that is communicated to the services: write up your pv in Dutch and not in French. The arguments used for this are the arguments that one wants to use, but I find that strange. People don't do that. We can discuss the number of magistrates, but I think we should finally have the workload measurement. Otherwise, we cannot discuss this objectively. I have seen the discussions about the division of BHV and the number of magistrates. A lot of them have indeed been added. I think you have given a very diplomatic answer, especially in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u97	You know me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u98	Minister, we may miss that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I agree with Mr Van Hecke. I also think it is a very strange e-mail: you should write the Pv in Dutch, so that we can fight impunity. I think everyone who knows justice knows that we also live in a two-speed country in the area of justice. I think that this is perhaps even more the case in Brussels. In Halle-Vilvoorde, my own region and Mrs Bury's, there are a lot of cases that also end up in that French-speaking court. We have also for a long time argued for the division of the judicial arrondissement, just to prevent that impunity, specifically for Halle-Vilvoorde that would make sense, because these are crimes committed on Dutch-speaking territory. I, together with Mr Van Hecke, experienced the discussion of the BHV reform in the committee responsible for state reform. The French-speaking courts in Brussels were better divided than the Dutch-speaking courts. The measurement of workload must be carried out as a matter of urgency. I know that several audits have already been carried out by the Supreme Court of Justice and that this was not clear to the former President of the Court of First Instance. It is good that there are audits, but something must also be done about these audits. If we don't, we're gonna stay on the same page. We are hopeful that this will be done in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that I have negotiated with the seat an agreement on self-management with regard to the measurement of workload. It was signed by the seat and cancelled after Marrakech. I tried to negotiate such an agreement with the court, but I failed to do so. It is important that you know this before continuing your work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u101	Minister, last week it was definitively established that the Fortis case is due to expire. More than ten years of research is gone. That is not the only case. Other cases are likely to lead to a statute of limitations. Figures were published on this subject. I want to leave it in the middle or be right to the last figure, but there are 10,000 criminal cases that have been going on for more than ten years. Of these, 2,650 date back to the 1990s. So they're 20 years old or older. At least that's what I read. No matter how we spin it or turn it, the Justice Department keeps colliding with its limits. A lot of good has been tried. I know, because we have tried to cooperate, but with such figures we wonder if there is any improvement in sight. Mr. Secretary, you started with your Justice Plan, your hink-step-jump. Do you still have that vision today or a plan to reduce the mountain of long-term criminal proceedings, without all of which being one-to-one years old? How can we do that? Have you identified which of these criminal cases would be of short-term duration, within two years? Are you considering further raising the limitation period for certain serious crimes, which has already happened several times to avoid a limitation period? If so, what crimes are you thinking of? I will not refer to any successor, as some Members have said, because I am sure that you still have a strong and firm vision on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u102	Mrs Bury, Mrs De Wit, the public prosecutor's support service said that the figure of 10,000 criminal offences was not in line with reality. In reality, there are not 10,000 old criminal cases pending or pending. The reason for the confusion was registration problems at the parquets, which give that distorted image. In the meantime, the prosecution is working on solutions for the incorrect registration. In view of this, it seems unnecessary to organise a thorough audit. It is true that some criminal investigations run for a very long time, sometimes up to the legal limit of limitation or even about it. This can also be explained in some cases by the fact that the case deserves further investigation because of its seriousness, even if it subsequently becomes apparent that facts relating to certain accused persons have been statute-barred or that the perpetrators have already died. Efforts to bring the truth to light continue to be needed for certain major issues. Criminal law is trying to safeguard the general interest here. Moreover, a limitation period cannot always be clearly established during the investigation, since it may subsequently be found that there is a coincidence with other unknown facts of a more recent date, which means that the criminal investigation is not yet time-barred. In other cases, following a lengthy judicial investigation, it is concluded that there are insufficient elements of the accused's guilt or that there is insufficient evidence of criminal offences. This makes it virtually impossible to identify all criminal cases in which the limitation period is likely to occur within two years. A legislative initiative to extend the limitation periods may be envisaged by a subsequent government or Parliament. I am not reluctant to do so, because today there has been an imbalance in crimes that are indeterminate and crimes that are still years old after 15 or 20 years. I would like to refer you to the new draft criminal procedure law, which provides for a different mechanism, in particular the institutionalisation. In this case, the limitation period can only occur if the investigation is not concluded within the prescribed period and the case is not brought before a court of judgment. This draft new criminal procedure also provides for the necessary legislative measures to speed up criminal proceedings, without prejudice to the parties' participation rights and provided that the necessary means are also provided for. I look forward with interest to the consideration of these proposals in this committee and in the womb of a future government. Debates on the law on extended friendly solutions have already taken place in Parliament on numerous occasions. A legislative initiative in this area is still pending. This committee will be able to judge this on the basis of the report of the College of Attorneys General and the opinions sought. I would like to say something in general that is perhaps too obvious to be said, but criminal law is evident in almost all cases after the facts. When the main deadline is the limitation period, and there are no deadlines other than that limitation period, it is not unusual that human nature does not always succeed in staying ahead of that limitation period. I don't think I should say any more about that. I'm not particularly lazy but I've always needed deadlines in my life to make sure I could turn in my work on time. Only ladies, but not all ladies, make a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u103	I do need deadlines to close some cases. We can't compare these two cases. People who need to be punished are something else than learning a test on time. Such matters should be kept to a minimum. You yourself say that an additional audit is unnecessary and that it is certainly not 10,000 criminal cases, but the correct figures are not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u104	In 2004, a similar census showed that there were 54,000. So we've moved forward. Because there hasn't been a specific count, I can't say exactly how many of those 10,000 are ultimately just bad registrations. There are certainly thousands of people who do not concern a statute of limitations at all, but without being prosecuted. So that means there's no unsub. If we don't have a perpetrator, we can't prosecute. I assume those figures will be refined. I'm not comparing a test to a criminal investigation. You did. I didn't talk about tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u105	Madam President, Minister, these figures certainly need to be refined so that we can get a proper picture. You are now talking about what is on the table, with the institution appointment. That's interesting, and we'll look into it further. This friendly settlement and the legislative initiative there will also defend our party. The trend of class justice has to come out. There was something like that in the paper today. That someone who is rich can afford more than a poor man, that he can buy things off and already in his criminal activities calculate that he can buy them off anyway, those are things that can't. Paying a fine so as not to go to jail is no longer of this time. That is why we will examine your legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u106	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It doesn't make me happy. In fact, I think that the committee is becoming increasingly saddened by the hour that goes on. I don't know if you feel that way. The tone's getting kind of negative. I realize it's not obvious. I think there are things we can and should do. We started a hearing this morning where the College of Attorney General came to ask to have confidence in Justice again. I replied at the time that I would like to do so. What is even more important is that citizens also have confidence in justice. These messages do not contribute to that. We need to hear that it is even difficult to map. Lady Justice is really blind, because she doesn't know the numbers. That is not a reproach to you, Minister, but that is a huge flaw. After all, how can one improve and adapt something if one cannot map it? Measuring is knowing, and so are things that are in danger of getting old. We need to be able to map that properly. I really hope that digitisation and computerisation can bring more comfort in this so that we can finally get the right figures and take the right measures and not simply start legislative initiatives, because that does not solve anything. In connection with class justice, everyone is against class justice. That'll be passed on the payoff bill. That may not be the ideal thing, but if it weren't there, one would also have a class justice in reverse, because then nothing happens and it's just a birthday. Now at least one payoff is being paid. Mr Minister, the work has not yet been completed, there is still a great deal on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u107	Madam President, Mrs Bury, Mrs De Wit, the Attorney General of Brussels has provided me with the following information. I quote: "In the night of Friday 4 on Saturday 5 September 2020 incidents took place in the Marollenwijk. Two minors were made available to the court on 5 September 2020 and a juvenile judge was brought in for armed resistance and forbidden arms work. The two minors are not known in court. At the present stage they do not deny that they were present at the site, but they deny that they have thrown projectiles. The Juvenile Court has decided to keep them under the supervision of the Youth Protection Service and under conditions with their families. There were also various fires, damage and armed rebellion against law enforcement services, in particular against firefighters, on the evenings of Sunday 6, Monday 7 and Tuesday 8 September 2020. After having been informed of the facts, the Brussels Office has ordered several investigative orders, such as the analysis of the CCTV and the report of the Federal Police Laboratory, which has been on the scene, and a neighborhood investigation. On Wednesday 9 September 2020, the police also discovered stones and projectiles near the Krakow Square. Several research assignments have been advanced, including a finger analysis, a neighborhood investigation and the analysis of camera images. The various investigations are actively pursued in order to identify the suspect and identify the precise circumstances of the facts." I also refer to the press release that was distributed by the Brussels Public Prosecutor on Wednesday 9 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u108	Madam President, Minister, thank you very much. That's a poor result for three days of riots. Firefighters were just set up. They were deliberately sent on the spot and then bewitched them with stones. That's hallucinating. We now notice that two minors are being questioned for a moment and are now again in their families under conditions. That's it for setting fire to crèches, cars and that's more. That's hallucinating. I hope that more arrests can happen and that perpetrators can be arrested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u109	Minister, it is hallucinating, sad and simply unacceptable what is happening there. The police are trying, but firefighters cannot be blamed for targeting certain groups. They're being called on site for an acute problem, for a fire. They're here to help. They're here to help! This is really unacceptable. Regardless of the age of the perpetrators, a signal must be sent immediately. If they don't act there, it's never gonna be okay. One can't start it fast enough. Hopefully, there will be a clear signal that aid workers cannot attack and commit violence under any circumstances. And whoever does, gets a piece of it. Lick to pieces can be anything to me, even if it's begging meals. As long as something happens, because if everything can just go home under conditions, well... things go wrong and they never get back together. I was just talking about pessimism: well, then one gets black pessimism. We must not allow that to happen, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u110	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, it is up to the European Commission to conduct the investigation in full objectivity and independence. The Gaming Commission will fully cooperate in that investigation. As far as the procedure in place at the Council of State is concerned, no date has yet been set. The phenomenon of simulated reality was investigated by the Gaming Committee. The opinion will be discussed today in the Gaming Commission, after which it will be delivered to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic261x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your very brief answer, which shows that there is a lot of work on the table at the Gaming Commission. I think some things have come up. I am very interested in the advice on the simulated reality. We must be aware that the gambling sector is always looking for ways to launch new gambling products as games, arguing that they can have a legal basis somewhere. In that sector, that sector is very creative. We all know what enormous damage gambling addiction can lead to. I therefore hope that the Gaming Commission will make a very strict and strict assessment of all the cases. The latter seems necessary to me, but has not always happened in the past. I'm as curious as you are. In the answer you gave earlier this afternoon to my question on the Gaming Commission, you replied that the Gaming Commission is now publishing all the opinions. I therefore suspect that we will be able to read that advice tonight or tomorrow on the website of the Gaming Commission.
