ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of October 7, 2020, I propose that you appoint the President of the House's final Bureau during the sitting on Tuesday, October 13, 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 October 2020, I propose that the President of the Permanent Bureau of the Chamber be appointed at the plenary session on Tuesday 13 October 2020. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Candidates may be nominated until today at 3 p.m. (art. 157, No. 5, Rgt). - Also today, no later than 4:00 p.m., I will communicate to you the candidate or candidates who will be nominated. - The candidates can be nominated until today at 15:00 (Art. 157, No. 5, Rgt). I will inform you today at the latest at 4:00 p.m. of the candidate or candidates to be nominated. - If more than one candidate is nominated, members can vote today at 4 p.m. until Tuesday, October 13, 2020, at 2 p.m. Their ballot papers are then available to the General Secretariat. If several candidates are nominated, Members may vote from 4 p.m. to 2 p.m. on Tuesday 13 October 2020. Their ballot note will then be available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Tuesday, 13 October 2020. The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session on Tuesday 13 October 2020. There was a consensus yesterday at the Conference of Presidents on this procedure. Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u3	Mr President, you have correctly expressed the consensus. In normal circumstances, there is little dispute about this. That appointment is part of agreements. However, we will also apply ourselves, which I will give you. We will propose Mrs Van Peel as President, although we originally did not intend to do so. However, we are responding to the new government's promise to adopt new policies. In the old circumstances, that function was effectively part of the formation of the government, which is actually not entirely correct. We have all been guilty of it in the past, and we must not throw stones at each other. The new wind that the government wants to blow in that area offers it the opportunity to be open to a candidate of the opposition. In the Netherlands that works very well. The legislative and executive powers always have a somewhat controlling role opposite each other. That is why we have decided to apply. I'll let them become you here. Do I have to take any further steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u4	In the meantime, it has been made known to the world and the services and myself can therefore already record them, of which it is noted, but submit them in and bonne et due form.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u5	Mr President, I understand today that it should not have been a fate at all that we had to take Mr Bracke as President for five years. I have to say, that brings some emotion to me. Now that there are two candidates, I would like to know more about the practical aspect, because it will therefore have to be voted on. I understand that no one should be physically present and that a vote can be cast until Tuesday morning, after which the urn will be opened at 2 p.m. on the same day. Is that how it's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u6	That is what I have just read out, but I would like to repeat it to the good listener. No vote will be held on Tuesday 13 October, as usual. We have experience with the agreed voting procedure. From 4 p.m. on, the vote has been opened, for which all members have to go to the General Secretariat. They have the necessary days. I shall then announce the result of the vote on Tuesday. No more, no less. Is that clear to everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u7	The Prime Minister has already taken his place on his couch. Prime Minister, I believe that Mr Vandenbroucke is on his way. Does the Chamber object to us starting and developing the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u8	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the pandemic has been showing a worsening trend for several weeks now. Decisions at the level of the concertation committee were taken this Tuesday. These decisions are restrictive and difficult for citizens and especially for the Horeca sector as regards coffees. But those measures had to be taken. Furthermore, the clarity of the communication at the end of this consultation committee should be stressed. There is a "newness" effect and we must be fair and be able to recognize it when there is positive. However, several points are raised and problematic. First of all, it is very clear that a number of indicators are being monitored. We know the geographical location, etc. However, unlike other countries, it is not explained to citizens what types of places are most important for transmission. Are these coffee shops or rather places where families find themselves, the workplace, transportation, etc.- Is that what you're saying? The more people are convinced of the merits of the measures, the more important is adherence to the measures. Secondly, decisions taken on Tuesday followed, yesterday, decisions for Brussels and, today, perhaps measures will be taken for universities. There is a form of "saucissoning" of these different measures. Again, the lack of overall coherence could undermine citizens' understanding and acceptance. Finally, I would have liked to hear from you about the key points in the fight against VOCID-19, namely testing, tracing and isolation. As far as testing is concerned, it's a long time! Too long! The centers are saturated. The time frame is sometimes seven days to achieve the results. Centers are closing. Should we not reorganise testing to prioritise those who are symptomatic and in contact with a positive and then make quick self-tests for others? The same applies to tracing as well as to the actual isolation rate that is not known. Efforts must be made in this regard. Prime Minister, do you agree with these findings? Do you also agree to try to move forward, making these efforts? This is where one can mark the difference, both to avoid one (congestion?) but also to allow caregivers to take care of both VOCID and non-VOCID patients as best as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. However, let us try to respect the speaking time!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u10	Prime Minister, the epidemiological situation required us to tighten the screw to avoid the saturation of our hospitals, but also a greater exhaustion of our health care staff. On the other hand, I was surprised to see that the new health measures were taken not by the National Security Council, but by the concertation committee; as if the policy set aside the experts, but also as if the Regions were to do the dirty work by complementing the measures adopted by the federal government. You will tell me that we now have a Commissioner for Coronavirus, and that is very good. However, he was not able to prevent some mayors from violating the distribution plan between our hospitals, refusing to take care of Brussels patients with VOCID-19. It is true that Brussels is greatly affected, but it is certainly not because of its mayors. The reason is simply that, like all major cities – European and non-European – Brussels is a place of concentration of commuters, workers, high schools, universities, but also of social and cultural activities, from which all Belgians ultimately benefit – whether they are Walloon, Brussels or Flemish. All these Belgians are ready to continue their efforts today, but it is important – in order to do so – that the measures be coherent and that they no longer consist of a succession of decisions which are taken one day by the federal government, the next day by the regions and, on the second day, by the Communities. Prime Minister, what specific role does the federal and the National Security Council play today in managing this second wave? What is your strategy to preserve the population's commitment to health measures? Finally, what initiatives will you take to support sectors that are heavily affected by these provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister, I shall begin by complimenting you on the effectiveness of communication over the last few days. It was not easy to tighten up the measures so quickly, but communication about them was clear, clear and accessible to everyone. However, compliance with the measures is a matter of credibility. I still read and hear testimonies from people who doubt the usefulness of the measures and ask why we are taking them. I feel that people need figures, data and the reasons why we are taking these measures. Why are we closing down the cafes and not the restaurants? I also feel that people need intermediate targets. Why are we doing this? We don't want to overload our care system. We want our caregivers to be able to keep track. We want our kids to keep going to school. Do you intend to include figures and intermediate targets in the communication in order to increase credibility? We all need to have a grip. We are all finding it increasingly difficult to maintain these measures. We also hear from the field that people are becoming lonelier and more fearful. This week is the week of mental health care. That's why I want to make a call. Let us together ensure that the pandemic of the corona virus does not cause an epidemic of mental health problems. Before the summer we approved an extra budget for mental health care. Your predecessor, Mrs De Block, has already started processes to spend that budget quickly and well. I'm worried about the caregivers. What are your short-term plans to take care of who, so that they can keep it going and so that we can prevent a tsunami of mental health problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u12	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, Minister, you made decisions quickly. You have even received congratulations on your communication. But the important thing is to make the right decisions, and good decisions can only be made on the basis of numbers. What do we see today in Belgium? We find that we can't tell where people contract coronavirus. You've decided to close the cafes because it seems that this is where people are most often infected. But, in reality, after seven months of crisis management, we still do not know where the contamination takes place. Yet our neighbouring countries – the Netherlands, Germany and France, for example – have these figures. I have here the painting of France. Interestingly, almost one in five infections, one in five clusters are found in companies. On the other hand, some people would like us to believe that the workplace is the safest place. But it is impossible to say whether it is true or not. This is essential information. For example, the InBev company where a cluster has been identified. The workers of this company had to strike to ensure that appropriate measures were taken. I do not mean, however, that businesses or schools should be closed down. On the contrary! But in order to avoid the closure of more structures and reconfiguration, it is necessary to know where the clusters are – as we do not know today – in order to take the appropriate measures quickly to extinguish these fires. This is the only way to avoid re-defining. Prime Minister, Minister, when will these figures be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u13	Minister, I only have one question. The management of the first wave of COVID-19 was a disaster. What can we expect from the second wave? There's something on my mind. The government is actually a continuation of the previous government. On 16 April, six months ago, I asked Prime Minister Wilmès what had happened to the destruction of millions of mouth masks in Belgrade's barracks in Namur. She didn't answer me. Your current Deputy Prime Minister didn't give me an answer. On April 23rd I asked the same question. I even reported the report that said they were burned at Van Gansewinkel to be replaced by stockage material for asylum seekers. Mrs Wilmès, your Deputy Prime Minister, did not give me an answer. On 27 April I asked a written question. This was not only about Mrs De Block, but also about KBs, ministerial decisions, the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate for which you were responsible as Minister and the Court of Auditors. On June 5th I again did not get an answer. I wrote to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to demand an answer from the Prime Minister. I received a laconic answer about the fact that I had to ask Mrs De Block the question. Until today, I have not received an answer to that. We saw the answer in Pano. We have seen that our ministers do not like talking to Members of Parliament, but rather to journalists and even more so when the calf has drowned. That hurts. Questions are being asked to Ministers who are here today as Deputy Prime Minister, who lie to us or do not answer us, while there is a new crisis ahead of us today. In fact, it is so bad that experts such as Mr Neyts and Mr Van Ranst say that they were forced to lie because there were no masks. Prime Minister, will you respond as has been done in the past? Or will you tell us the truth? I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, the health situation is again worrying. It was therefore necessary to adapt the measures once again to protect our citizens, to combat the spread of the virus and to preserve our hospitals, family doctors, health professionals at home or in private practice. As you said, the Belgians are getting tired of the measures, but we have to manage the crisis. We feel it everywhere in our neighbourhoods, our freedoms, our social and family interactions are once again restricted, which also increasingly has an impact on the mental health of many people, whether older or younger. Economic actors and self-employed people again face these restrictions in a way that is sometimes fatal for their activities. Above all, there is a need to be convinced of respect for social distancing, particularly among certain parts of the population, including schoolchildren and adolescents. In this regard, it is imperative to build the capacity for coherence on the ground, particularly with regard to public transport, which is too often crowded. There is certainly a need for consultation with the federated entities at this level. It is also essential to ensure the testing and tracing strategy. The recent example of the Liège screening centre is not reassuring. As for tracing, in addition to calling centres, the Coronalert mobile app has the advantage of allowing the transmission chain to be circumscribed. Prime Minister, what is our testing capability today? Will it be increased again? Will the deadlines be shortened? Could you let us know about the tracking procedures? Finally, in addition to encouraging teleworking, where possible, what concerted measures are being taken to ensure adequate capacity for public transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament, I am, of course, very pleased that today there is a fully-fledged government that communicates well and comes up with a courageous and challenging government programme. COVID-19 was the unknown unknown that we didn't see coming and we don't know when the end is in sight yet. This requires leadership, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of the economy. There is a period behind us in which a powerless parliament has taken many measures which have been difficult to discern in substance, except for a budgetary constant: it has cost a great deal of money each time. So it's about time we took a closer look. As an entrepreneur, I am pleased that this government agreement is committed to entrepreneurship. Mr Hedebouw will not contradict me. Investment deductions and reconstruction reserve will be important levers for a relay. It is generally known that crises pose challenges, but after crises it always becomes clear that an accelerated transformation of our economic and social fabric will take place. That is why rapid modernisation of our labour market is so important. This will be the foundation on which the ambition of this government, including in the social field, can and must build. As a father and a grandfather, I hope that this reform government will quickly kick off, also in economic terms. We must also create prosperity for the next generations. Prime Minister, can you ensure that the relay measures are implemented quickly? How do you intend to start modernising the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u16	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new measures taken are obviously necessary, but they really hit hard. This crisis is long. The uncertainty surrounding this virus remains enormous and people have nothing to hang on to. Whether it is the fair of Liège or the fair of Huy that are cancelled, the café of the corner of the street that closes, a family party, one more, which cannot take place, it is important to recall why these measures are taken. First of all, there is not only the VOCID-19 and everyone must be able to be properly treated by medical teams that hold on and must not be on the edge of the burn-out. These measures are also in place to ensure that children can continue to attend school, and also because employment must be kept to the maximum extent possible. However, whole sectors continue to be affected; behind these sectors there are families who are in real difficulty. This crisis is not over, but it already leaves immense economic and psychological consequences. According to an ICRC study that was unveiled in Geneva this morning, one in two people claimed that the pandemic had negative psychological effects on them. We need to measure these impacts, and react quickly. Bridge law and economic unemployment must be reactivated for the sectors affected by these measures. An envelope of $200 million for mental health care must be able to align as closely as possible with the needs that are needed today, now. Prime Minister, Minister, my question is more of an appeal. What buoy, what beacon can you give to the population so that it can hang on to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u17	Prime Minister, if I am well informed, you will answer these questions together with Minister Vandenbroucke. This group of questions has been placed under one heading and three more on the new measures are set out below. The government can, of course, answer as it pleases, and if you prefer, we can also deal with all the questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u18	Mr President, it is perhaps better to ask these three other questions now. We will then answer all the questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u19	If the Chamber doesn't see any bones in that, we'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u20	Mr President, Minister, all the signs are red: 2,500 new infections every day, almost 100 new hospitalisations every day and the first cafes are now closed. We expect serious drivers who also keep their heads cool, but in Aalst there is nothing less true. However, it may be different, because you and the Prime Minister made it clear on Monday that cooperation is the only way out of this crisis. Corona doesn't stop magically at the front door or at the edge of our villages, Corona doesn't stop at a border. Yet there are politicians who make politics. For example, they say that there is no room in their hospital for people who do not come from their city, Aalst, or they say that people who need help and support are no longer welcome at that time. I don't know what world the mayor of Aalst lives in, but it's not ours. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remain serious. A while ago, we were almost all convinced that there would no longer be a crisis at the moment. But the truth is different. The crisis is still everywhere, we're still in the middle of it. It is therefore difficult to take new and stringent measures. It's even harder to keep motivating people. However, there are those who say that the limit of medical solidarity has been reached or those who do not distance themselves from such statements. It is precisely now that we need to work together, especially when we need to work together to find solutions, that is being undermined. Minister, are you worried about these statements? Can you explain to me, and especially to the mayor of Aalst, what will happen effectively if the pressure on hospitals increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u21	Mr President, Minister, the number of infections continues to increase in our country. I am therefore very pleased that in your first week as Minister, you have given our citizens very clear and firm new rules. We see that the emergency services in hospitals, especially in Brussels and Antwerp, are beginning to become overcrowded and staff are under pressure. We have heard in the media some cowboys saying that they only want to reserve their hospital capacity for the people in their region. Well, Minister, I have some questions for you. I would like to hear from you how the pressure on the health care staff will be reduced. Can you tell us a little bit more about the distribution plan you have in mind? There'll be more hands on the bed. We know that the coalition agreement is working very hard on this. We have resources for training, but also for additional staff. What opportunities do you see to quickly deploy new people? The triage centres naturally reduce pressure on the staff in the care, both on the emergency services and on the general practitioners. What possibilities do you see to get the triage centers going again, so that the pressure on the first line can drop?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my question is for the Minister of Health. Minister, I quote: "The limits of medical solidarity have been reached." The limits of medical solidarity have been reached. This is what the mayor N-VA of Alost, our colleague Christoph D'Haese, said this Monday. By this sentence, the mayor of Alost meant "stop!" to the reception of Brussels patients with VOCID-19 by the hospitals in his city, too expensive according to him. This declaration comes at a time when our country is facing an unprecedented health crisis, from which we have not yet come out; while contamination, as well as hospitalizations, are again increasing significantly, and the authorities are again obliged to take difficult measures for our fellow citizens. Fortunately, the hospitals concerned quickly denied this by confirming that they would continue to accommodate Brussels patients as long as their capacities permit, in accordance with the national emergency plan. A position of professionalism that puts the patient at the centre of the concerns. Minister, my questions are very simple. Do you condemn the words of the mayor of Alost? Is the allocation plan deployed today as part of the national emergency plan effective in ensuring solidarity between all hospitals in order to ensure optimal care for patients, for all patients, regardless of their means or place of residence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u23	I repeat what I said earlier. The Prime Minister will answer first and then Minister Vandenbroucke. They have divided the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to start by describing the situation. I think it is clear to everyone that we are currently seeing an intense revival throughout the country. In all municipalities we see the germs of a situation that can be particularly dangerous. In some places there are already many infections and it cannot be said today that there are places in this country that have not been affected. The situation in Brussels is clearly worrying. That is why we in the Conciliation Committee decided quickly on Monday in order to avoid those germs erupting and we would lose control. The situation in hospitals is clearly under control today, but if we do not act, we risk losing control. The Minister for Health and I have already said it in detail in the press conference, but I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise it once again. We ask very much, we ask people to do something that they are really tired of, something that we have been asking them for so long and which they probably thought this summer we wouldn't ask in October and November. We're asking that question today because it's necessary. We are pressing this question because it is the only way to protect vulnerable people and to prevent the death rate from rising even more than is already the case today. Questions were asked about the figures. To use it, they should be compared week after week. Otherwise, the variations per day are too high. If we look at the number of confirmed infections, the week average is now 2,600, 64% higher than last week. The number of hospitalizations is 90 per day, 32% higher than last week. Deaths are 12 per day, more than double last week. These figures do not require much comment. We are in a situation that is clearly critical. We can only reverse the curve in one way: by limiting our contacts to the maximum. I know it's not comfortable, but we need to take steps in this direction. I was asked if we knew where those transmissions were taking place. All of us were able to see pictures of cafes in our big cities, crowded terraces, people who talk together and stand with each other. I'm not here to fustiger them, because it's a perfectly human behavior. However, we know very well that we cannot allow it. It's just too dangerous. You told me that detailed analyses are being carried out in France. Their equivalents exist here, even if they are not provided by the federal government. If, in France, we close the cafes and we do it in the Netherlands from 10 p.m. onwards, I could not imagine that it would go differently in Belgium. I am absolutely aware that we are asking a lot of people and that we are asking very much from the people involved in this activity. If one is today a café operator and one comes from a difficult period, which was thought to be almost behind him, then this is an absolute damper. We must be absolutely aware of this. We have tried to make the measures as simple as possible. In fact, we have to remember two figures. One may have close contacts with three people, described by Minister Vandenbroucke as cuddly contacts, which makes it quite clear what we mean by this, and there is also the rule of four: in cafés four persons, at home four persons, for non-organised cooperation four persons. We have taken this decision on the basis of Opinion No. 82 from Celeval, which says very clearly that the cafés have to close at 23 o'clock. We have accepted this measure. Celeval's advice also says that in his opinion there is not the same problem in the restaurants. I understand that there is a discussion about this, but if Celeval gives such an opinion, I see no reason why we should not follow that opinion. Mrs Merckx, you talked about the situation in companies. We clearly stated that telework was highly recommended. So, if you can do it, do it! If you are an employer, allow it as much as possible! Of course, it is well known that this is not possible in all circumstances, but try to do so as much as possible! On Tuesday, we also decided on a set of measures at national level. However, if it appears that a certain province is experiencing a situation worse than at the national level, the governors or the minister-president must take action. In this respect, I am very pleased to see that Brussels has followed this logic and has taken perfectly defensible measures. You asked me why we no longer had recourse to the National Security Council, but rather to the Consultation Committee. I think it is clear that, at a time of crisis, we must be able to decide quickly and firmly. The Consultative Committee in its legal composition perfectly respects the division of powers in our country. Certain powers lie federal, others lie with the regions and communities. The Consultative Committee is the place where the various powers of our country are brought together. If there is a need for advice from the security services, we can perfectly invite them there. That is what we have done, by the way. I also want to stress that this Conciliation Committee has clearly shown a willingness to work together. It can often be said that the decisions in our country are complex, but in that committee I saw a willingness on the part of all those around the table to take the necessary action in our country. There are many parties in this Consultation Committee and we do not always have the same opinion on several issues, but we had one thing in common: the willingness to take the necessary measures to protect our people. Questions have been asked about economic support. Those are also very legitimate questions. As indicated, the measures are very far-reaching, including for our economic fabric. In economic terms, it is a particularly difficult time. You know that the previous government has decided on a number of measures. These measures continue, such as the postponement of payment, the bank guarantee has been extended and the temporary unemployment is still running. The government agreement makes it clear that if these economic support measures are needed next year, we will take the decision to extend certain measures. The evaluation cannot be done now, but there is an agreement within the government to do that. We have also talked about the Commissioner and the communication. I am very pleased that we have been able to designate Pedro Facon and Mrs Schirvel as COVID Commissioner and Deputy COVID Commissioner. They must ensure that the positive momentum we have seen in the Conciliation Committee continues. A question about the mental impact was also quite rightly asked. There are people in our country who do not have it easy, are lonely and are not well in their skin. Unfortunately, these people were already there before the COOVID crisis, and you can imagine that this situation, which is difficult for everyone, is even more difficult for people who have had difficulties before. An effective budget of EUR 200 million has been allocated to mental health care. This government has confirmed this and continues the policy of the former Minister of Health, Mrs De Block. After all, it had already launched mental health reforms. One dimension that I do not think is the target group communication. We live in a very diverse country and if we want these measures to have an impact, we must ensure that we can reach everyone. Together with the Minister of Health and the Chancery, we are now looking at a communication that goes further and is more professional than our political communication, because we want to be sure that we can reach everyone. Mr President, my answer is a little too long, but I would also like to answer Mr Dedecker's question. On the surgical masks mentioned there is no official date that limits usability. However, the previous minister has based himself on a report from the Scientific Institute of Public Health, the institution known today as Sciensano. That report clearly indicated that these masks could no longer be used. The reportage of Pano assumes that the masks that were destroyed were still useful. During the previous government period, the Minister based himself on advice and on yard reports which clearly indicated that these masks were no longer usable. That is something that, in my view, was not sufficiently emphasised in Pano's report. I hope I have answered the questions with this. I want to make up my mind. These are temporary measures for one month. They are not simple measures. We do this to protect each and every one of us, but above all to protect others. Any of us could be carriers of the virus today. It's possible. We don't know. We may soon be able to infect someone else with that virus, and that person may not notice it either, but that person may then infect someone who is vulnerable and has particularly serious consequences. Our behavior determines the life and survival of vulnerable people. Let us not forget that, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important issue. However, I would like to inform you that if the government asks for a little more time than had been agreed, I will give Parliament not the usual minute but a minute and a half, so that the chances are equal for everyone. Minister Vandenbroucke, you still need to get used to this game, but it is a question of balance between government and Parliament. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I think we need those balances. We will all win together, across the boundaries of majority and opposition, or we will lose together. Unfortunately, we can only say to the Chamber today that we are facing a very serious situation, the figures of which indicate that it is getting worse. We will also have to live with that for a while, even though everyone is doing their best right now. We do our best, because we want the kids to go to school, run the companies, protect the jobs of the people and because we want the doctors, the nurses, the caregivers to do their job for patients who have COVID-19, and for other patients. One of the important questions is about that. If we want hospitals to be able to do their job, they must be able to organise themselves, they must be able to work together, they must be able to organise solidarity. That is the concern that arose in Aalst. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee has established a set of rules to be followed when patients need to be distributed in such a way that care for the patients can still be done properly. These rules were drawn up for the whole of our country, in consultation with Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, the authorities of the other political levels and hospitals. Yes, indeed, a first rule of the game is that when a problem arises in a hospital, that hospital in its own network examines whether help can be provided. The hospital of Aalst is in a network with a hospital of Brussels. They apply that rule, and I think that is absolutely correct. That means that if in the future the people of Aalst or the hospitals of Aalst get into trouble, there will also be help elsewhere. By the way, I say the following under verification of figures, because I always want to be careful with numbers, but I think that last year 500 people from Aalst were cared for in Brussels. It also stands for me at that time I was just a citizen watching TV and so take it out of my memory that Defence, a national instrument, has also come to the aid of residential care centres in Aalst. Isn't that how we're supposed to deal with the crisis? I therefore believe that we must abide by the agreed rules of the game, which have been negotiated between Flemings, Walls and Brusselsers, to the benefit of all. Of course, responding to Mrs Farih's question, total capacity also plays a role. Mrs Farih, you'll excuse me if I may move a little quickly. I believe that there is a short-term and long-term aspect to your question. Perhaps as a short-term element you had in your head the fact that then Minister Maggie De Block was working on decisions to develop a reserve, a kind of medical reserve, and that was quite close. However, there is still, rightly so, discussion. Indeed, we are still considering how best to organise a medical reserve, including with the support of the field. The decisions were thus determined in wisdom that they cannot be applied immediately. So those decisions are not forgotten, they are definitely still in the pipeline. In the slightly longer but not too long term, we are indeed providing for a budgetary effort for the care sector, the sector for which we are responsible. We're creating a fund for several hundreds of millions to make sure more hands get to the bed. Mr President, I would like to comment on a very important discussion. I was told that the government is taking measures in relation to cafés, but not in relation to restaurants. First of all, there is already a measure in place in relation to restaurants, which we have not changed, for simplicity's sake. Well, like everyone else, I take such measures with great reluctance. You'll just be a café boss. It's easy for us, with our fixed salary, to talk. Café bosses live by their customers and now we decide that these customers are no longer allowed to go to cafés. That is extremely difficult. I will frustrate you and disappoint you, but there is no hard scientific evidence that states where and how many measures should be taken. Science is uncertain. The data could be better. We don't have any certainty. We act in scientific uncertainty, but the political world must decide. Imagine that we are in a war and the enemy comes across the sea, while we have many shores. We don't know where he'll attack. We're insecure. What shall we do? Where the coasts are the most fragile, the easiest to take, we will strengthen there. Don't ask for the ultimate proof. We have to act. Indeed, it is likely that it is not easy, even for the best motivated boss, to ensure that cool ambiance is not a danger today. That's why we're doing this. Is that unfair? I do not want to be miscited, but of course it is unjust. The virus is unjust. It knows no justice. We have to act. That's what we stand for. Do not expect us to be here for the next two weeks with happy messages about the results. It might, by chance, but don't expect it. We will have to ask for a long time to make progress. As Mr Laaouej said, the issue of hospitals is a very operational issue of solidarity. But there is something fundamental about it. There's only one guarantee in this fight. There's only one real solution. It's solidarity. Between us, between governments, between hospitals, and among all citizens. That is how we will have to act. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u27	Mr Dedecker, you will have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u28	Mr President, I must say something. There are three questions directly raised here about a colleague, in particular the mayor of Aalst, who cannot be present here because of the quotas that apply in the Chamber with regard to the number of members in the hemisphere. When that is discussed, it is also about personal facts. I would therefore find it very fair and honest if he were invited here to be present, as there are three questions about him. In this way, he could serve the questioners on the basis of the personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u29	Now let's just get the answers straight. As I said earlier, I will be a little more generous with the speaking time. Normally, that's one minute. Everyone gets a minute and a half before the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u30	Prime Minister, Minister of Health, thank you for your answers. As has been the case for some time now, it is indeed necessary to limit its contacts to the maximum and the barrier gestures must become an automatism. That said, it is up to you to identify and correct weak links. Indeed, the latter continue to exist. Prevention must be intensified in places where the transmission of coronavirus is most important. We need to reorganise and strengthen the testing, which remains the great forgotten. None of you have talked about it as the centres overflow, as people wait several days to get an appointment, but also to receive their result while speed is a major challenge to fight transmission and break transmission chains. An immediate tracing is much more effective, aspect that you did not mention either. Don't forget these aspects! We need to be able to reorganise the testing and strengthen it. It is also necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the isolation of positive carriers – we are navigating on sight in this matter today – and teleworking whenever possible. Finally, I would say that you are right: both citizens and caregivers have shown their solidarity since the beginning of the crisis. I did not wish to refer here to the comments made by the mayor of Alost, but since all the speakers have done so, allow me to speak for a moment on this subject. It is gratifying to note that the caregivers have no intention of listening to the mayor in question. Indeed, ethically, it is not possible not to take care of patients. It's nothing but caring for this kind of selfish little political game.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u31	Prime Minister, Minister, I thank you for your answers, even though I regret that we had to wait until the critical threshold to react, when we had known for weeks that a clear response plan was needed, not decisions that changed at all from week to week. For the rest, Prime Minister, of course, you can count on Parliament to support you, to support the sectors that are lagging behind and to ensure the continuity of all our care. This is essential, especially in this month of breast cancer awareness. We cannot afford to applause the healthcare staff when it comes to putting them under pressure the next day and forcing them to make impossible choices between patients according to their pathology. Mr Minister, I thank you for reminding you of this essential principle of solidarity between hospitals, because the mayors who today deny this principle undermine the very management of this crisis. As you rightly said, we will not leave this crisis without solidarity, both on the part of the citizens and on the part of the public authorities, who must lead by example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the clear and comprehensive answer. I remember two words, to which I would like to return for a moment: solidarity and target group communication. Solidarity is ultimately the key to our perseverance. This is reflected in all the answers. Why do we have to hang in there? To make sure that the most vulnerable don't catch this virus, to make sure our care system doesn't overload, to make sure our kids can keep going to school. It is all about collective responsibility, about solidarity, so I am glad that this has been emphasised here today. Tous ensemble, not only in football, but also against the virus. Prime Minister, the second word you have mentioned is target-group communication. It is very good that you came back to that again, because that is why it will indeed take place in the coming days. We saw a great campaign in the summer, "11 million reasons." All of us have our reasons for fighting this virus, all of us have our reasons for sticking to those measures. I saw a very nice reason in the news yesterday, quoted by Martine Tanghe, and I want to share them with you here. One of the reasons why we should all now stick to these clear measures is to be able to celebrate Christmas together. If we don't stick to the measures now, there won't even be modest parties at Christmas. I hope we can all hang in there together, tous ensemble, all together, so that we can have modest family parties at Christmas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u33	Mr Minister, the situation today is indeed serious and concerns me too, but today is not only uncertain about science. You're making blind decisions. You make decisions with your gut feeling. It's in Standard. I even hear you make decisions based on social media photos. This isn't normal. In France statistics are available on where the infections occur, for example one in five of the infections occur in the workplace. That is also true in the Netherlands and Germany. We do not know that in Belgium. We expect you to find out. This isn't normal after seven months. That is why we are in this situation today. Measuring is knowing. Things have to go faster, too. Today it is normal for people in Brussels or Charleroi, where I am a doctor, to wait seven days for the results of the test. Then how can contact detection be carried out? Yes, your responsibility is great. We expect solidarity from the government. We expect you to take responsibility and take the measures that will ensure that the virus is diluted. Then the people will join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u34	Mr President, I would like to say something in advance. I will ask for a minute later. Mr Vandenbroucke, I am the coastal mayor. I heard your speech very well. You are criticizing Mr D'Haese about his own hospital. Let's call it that. What happened in the months of April and May 2020? No one from the interior was allowed to come to the coast, not even second-timers. No one was allowed to come to us to enjoy the sea, not even the owners. This was prohibited from keeping hospitals free for the local people, so that hospitals, and certainly the COVID-19 departments, would not be overcrowded. I don't think there's anything going on anymore. It is up to his party to defend the person concerned and not to me. I shall now return to my question. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It took me six months to get an answer, even if it is only a partial answer, about the mouth masks that were burned. It's about 63 million pieces in total. We then talked about 25 million masks; it was 65 million in the end. Thank you for that. I don't fish. I don't fish a minister, either. I just want to know the truth. There's a great truth in that case. It is about royal and ministerial decisions, about opinions and about the Court of Auditors. The people have a right to the truth. What are you asking here today? You ask the people's confidence to follow the measures that need to be taken. That's what you need trust for. For that trust, we have to deal with the past. There was a past, too. You talk so beautifully about regionalisation and federalisation. If you saw the Pano programme yesterday, you could also see that millions of mouth masks ordered by the Flemish government were rejected by the federal government. You can now sing a beautiful song about this country and about the unity in this country. What we need, however, is the truth. We are still world champions in the number of victims, with more than ten thousand in the number of inhabitants. There's a reason for that. An epidemic today has her germs yesterday. The people have a right to know the truth. Prime Minister, I will put forward a proposal for the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry with full authority, not to target anyone, but to give the people confidence by telling them what has happened in the past and letting them know the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u35	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister, the period is indeed critical. As we know, all are actors without exception: you, us, Parliament, the federated entities, the governors, the mayors and the citizens. Protecting, supporting and communicating are the key words in a crisis. You take the necessary action on the basis of scientific advice. You take them with responsibility and benevolence. I'm sure of it. We're here to help you. I am a mayor, so I am an actor to make your actions heard by the citizens and I can assure you that it is not easy every day. But it is also important to listen to citizens in their daily lives, to hear their fears and misunderstandings. As mayors, we receive daily figures for our communes. I can deny what was said. We also have an idea of the clusters in our territories, which is interesting in our efforts. I ask you to pay attention, if you will, to misunderstandings related to buses that are crowded - parents and young people do not understand - and to the optimisation of testing, tracing and Coronalert. When you're going to do a test, it's important to mention that we downloaded the app well. These are concrete examples that I wanted to share with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u36	Prime Minister, Minister, this will be a government in which we can and will transcend ideological differences through teamwork and mutual respect. The challenges are particularly great, but the new approach and the break in style are clear to everyone. That is why I am confident that we will be able to get our country out of the crisis, both from the economic crisis and from the health crisis. This requires perseverance and courage, but also an entrepreneurial spirit, including in the government. However, let us not forget that we need a sustainable economic revival, because we do not build a welfare state in an economic graveyard. We're counting on your leadership.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u37	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. If my colleague chose to stay on the word "solidarity", I will also go back to the word "trust". That's a word you used many times last week. It makes sense today, not to go back to the past, but to be able to move forward. It is necessary to have confidence in the figures, in the measures taken, in the teams that carry them because the word "trust" is also associated with a sense of security. When long-term efforts are called for, people must be able to cling to measures that help them economically but also psychologically, given what is going on. Indeed, as you said, there will be no good news to be expected in the near future. This news, we must not forget to communicate them because it is a bit of a giver-donner. Efforts are called for, but the public must also be able to cling to certain measures taken by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive reply. I would also like to thank you for stressing that we can only do this together and that we will have to do this together. You also stressed that now is not the time to undermine the principle of solidarity and that it is just now time to realise that we can only do this by supporting and helping each other. I also hope that the N-VA mayors have paid attention and have understood that we are not going to play political games here with regard to sick people and corona. The only way is together to get us out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must all be very clear. We don't tolerate cowboys when it comes to public health. When it comes to public health, we have solidarity with each other. In our country, medical solidarity is not being negotiated for our Belgian citizens. In our country we go for quality care, which is close and strong. I hope to get the support of the Chamber in support of our minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u40	Mr Vandenbroucke, thank you for the clarity of your remarks. You have recalled the essentials, and you are confirming the figures recalled this week. If, today, Brussels patients are accommodated in the hospitals of Alost, there have also been, in the past, alostian patients admitted to Brussels hospitals. It has a name. It bears the names of solidarity, of the availability of hospital networks, to ensure that we are up to date, in the context that we are dealing with today. This health context is of enormous gravity. That is why you are right to remind us: we all win solidarity. But it also requires a minimum of decency, and I can see that some statements have their source in certain selfish ideologies. And that's what's wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u41	We are acting here in limited composition, because of the circumstances we know. That means that not all Members of Parliament can be here. That also means that I cannot formally invoke a personal fact. Whoever could, is not in a position to be here. The exchange of views we are having here on health and on the corona measures seems to be about playing political games for some people. I believe that this is a bad illustration of the promise of a new political culture. I will confine myself to one sentence. That phrase was spoken by the mayor of Aalst. I quote: "We leave no one unhindered." I repeat that phrase, to everyone's good understanding: "We leave no one uncared." That is the position of the mayor of Aalst, and that is the position of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u42	I would like to say the following in response to what Mr Dedecker said. Statements we make outside Parliament are also part of the public debate. Declarations have been made, and they do so often, outside of this parliamentary authority. It is of course illusory to think that if something is part of the public debate it would be forbidden to refer to it in any way. It has not been asked by anyone, but I am making this point very clear. I allowed Mr Dedecker to go outside his speaking time. I also gave the floor to Mr De Roover, although that is not customary at such a time. But it is, of course, a choice for each group to participate in a parliamentary exchange of views, as it is now. I simply note, Mr De Roover, that two members of your group will now be asking questions to the Prime Minister about another matter. That is also a choice made by everyone. So again, it is not only because the composition we know is now limited, it is also because of the choice that each group makes whether or not to participate in the parliamentary debate. I just wanted to give you that as a rule of the game. Mr De Roover, I am clear in that. You may now say what you want, but I have given you the floor at a time which is not really customary in Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u43	Mr President, I suggest, given the circumstances, that each group passes on the names of the Members of my group who will be mentioned, and then I will ensure that they are present so that they can respond appropriately, but you cannot expect me to predict that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u44	You should be aware that in the question time format there is actually no room for personal facts and thats anymore. We are doing this in a very strict time scenario, and that is the last thing I want to say about it. Even if they were here, they wouldn't get the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have opted for a firmly washed-out government with 20 members. With 15 ministers you are at the maximum constitutional number, which was not the case for Michel 1 and Di Rupo 1. Why did you also choose 7 vice-premiers and thus 7 additional Cabinets? Your colleague Guy Verhofstadt did not need a Vld colleague in the Kern when he formed his purple-green government. I find all this very difficult to understand, especially at this time of crisis, when many are struggling and everyone is being called upon to do so. The strong shoulders within the government are apparently not the strong shoulders outside the government. With more government members, more cabinet employees and more buildings are needed to house them. However, I was pleasantly surprised when I read that your chairman, together with some of the other presidents of majority parties, would like to reduce the size of the cabinets. That is a good idea, and we have actually put it into practice from day one of the Michel Government. However, I hear that not everyone within your government would be on that line. Prime Minister, how are you going to achieve this effectively in the short term? It is not words but deeds and actions that need to be done now, because at this very moment the appropriations for the various Cabinets are being decided. A vague objective within a few years in the context of democratic renewal will therefore not suffice. Mr Prime Minister, I have a very simple question for you: can you not commit yourself to increasing the total cost of the Cabinets, including the wages of ministers, the cost of the staff, the budgets for experts and the housing of all these people, compared to the last government with a parliamentary majority, the Michael Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u46	Mr President, Mr Donné, thank you for your question on a subject which, of course, you know very well. You've been the head of your cabinet for a long time. You know very well that the composition of cabinets, we are now day five after the vote of confidence, has not yet happened. Everyone's putting together their cabinet. Mine has not yet been fully put together, nor have my colleagues. The discussion on the composition required to support policy in the right way is a discussion that is still ongoing. As soon as that is completed, I will provide you with all the information. However, I cannot give you an answer today. You are asking me for a factual answer today. I cannot give this Parliament a factual answer today. You will allow me not to have any business here...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u48	Mr Donné, you ask me a question and I try to answer it. You may not agree with that, but you are asking me for a factual answer. Today, I cannot give you that factual answer. You must respect that, I think. Regarding the composition, the Di Rupo government had a Secretary of State more than we did. The Michel administration had one less. We're in there. For a government that has the ambition to represent the broad centre, I think this can be defended. At the time when we were faced with the biggest crisis since the Second World War, we made the choice to designate a Secretary of State for Relance. I would think that this is to be defended and that the composition of this government responds to the very great needs facing our country today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u49	Mr Prime Minister, I am somewhat disappointed by your reply. I did not ask for a factual answer, I did not ask for the exact government appropriations, I did not ask how much the ministerial wages will be. I've asked for an engagement, and it's not that difficult. I didn't even ask for fees or total costs to be reduced. I simply asked if you could make the commitment, and that seems to me not so difficult at this time of crisis, that this government will not cost more than the last full government, the Michael Government. There too, I regret to note that you are using the vagueness used in the entire coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u50	Prime Minister, what ambition does your government have? That's hard to estimate, because we're barely getting any figures from you. We got a table on a half-A4 sheet with some loose numbers. That table is raging on all sides. We discussed, for example, the figures for tax fraud last week. Mr Francken pointed out to you that you underestimated these figures unrealistically. You fell off your seat first and then through the basket. Since the kindergarten is one plus one equal to two, but for you is one plus one equal to one. Something's not right. In the meantime, we've been right. This morning, your Minister for Finance made it very clear on the radio that Mr Francken's reading is the correct one. Mr Francken is right. You preach a new policy. That is a fine ambition, and I would also like to call on you to make it happen. We need to put that passage behind us. I would like to give you the opportunity to apologise for the statements you made in plenary. Then we can proceed to the order of the day. We have more questions about the budget and the composition of your government. You say that you want to fight against social fraud harder, but none of your ministers or secretaries of state are explicitly responsible for combating social fraud. In all the previous governments, that was different. Then the fight against social fraud was also an element of the title. Mr Anseeeuw asked you a question about this, but has still not received an answer. Is this fight being taken seriously? You are also wrong about the Monitoring Committee. Last Tuesday's report states that your budget deficit will increase by half a billion more. The numbers you're leaving from are simply not correct. Next week you will have to deliver your budget tables to Europe. Will those tables be ready in time? Will they finally be delivered to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u51	Mr Loones, the method we use in the table, which you have seen, is exactly the same method used by the Monitoring Committee. You know this method very well, you yourself have been involved in policy for a long time. We use exactly the same method. Moreover, the amount registered here in the light of the fight against fraud is much lower than the amount achieved by the previous government and the Minister responsible for tax fraud at the time, is well aware of that. If that amount has been realized by the previous minister and we are now registering a lower amount, why couldn't this government do what your colleague could? As far as social fraud is concerned, the fight against fraud is the responsibility of every functional minister. The Minister responsible for social affairs therefore also has the power to combat social fraud, the minister responsible for pensions also has the power to tackle fraud in the area of pensions, and the minister responsible for taxation is the one responsible for dealing with tax fraud. This is the logic itself: within the policies that are being pursued, we must also tackle fraud. The Monitoring Committee comes up with new figures. You may have noticed that we live in rather turbulent times. The figures given vary. The National Bank of Belgium spoke six months ago about a much greater rise in unemployment than it is today. We have also taken a number of measures which have sometimes taken longer than initially thought. So it is a good thing that the Monitoring Committee comes up with an update of the figures. We will base ourselves on the latest figures available and Mrs De Bleeker's cabinet is in the process of transforming the decisions we have taken into something that can deliver to the European Commission as soon as possible, and that will of course be discussed in Parliament. That's the logic itself. I sometimes have the impression that you blame us for adapting to the circumstances. If we do not adapt to the circumstances, you would say that it is a disgrace that we do not adapt. If we do adapt to the circumstances, you say that the figures are variable. We live in turbulent times and we adapt to the conditions in which we work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u52	Thank you, Prime Minister, but what a disappointing answer. I had really hoped for the new style and that you would admit that a mistake had occurred in plenary last week, that you had spoken for your turn and wanted to apologize. I want to try something. The Minister of Finance could not be here, but was on the radio this morning. His speech was very interesting in that respect. (Mr. Loones picks up his smartphone and shows a recording)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u53	You have heard it, Mr Prime Minister, while you are not getting it out of your mouth, your Minister of Finance is so honest to confirm. The sum total, the reasoning Theo Francken has built up, was indeed correct. Your ambitions are unrealistic. You also say that you take the budget seriously. I have two brief comments to make in this regard. First of all, I see you're still handing out free train tickets. Those who take the budget seriously could perhaps focus elsewhere. Secondly, anyone who takes the budget seriously could perhaps also look at the title in that regard. Who is responsible for government budgets? That's a secretary of state. That's the lowest in rank. Our budget deserves a little more ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u54	That concludes the questions to the Prime Minister. I would ask Mrs Wilmès, who is in the building, to join the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u55	Mr President, Minister, Flemish Interest regrets that Artsach has been the target of military action for many years. We deeply regret and condemn the severe escalation of recent weeks. The role of Turkey in this is very reprehensible because in its neo-Ottoman ambitions Erdogan is increasingly aggressive. He is not afraid of military confrontations. Over the last few months, Turkey has been exporting its intervention policy to Syrian-Kurdish territories and Libya, where it has been actively intervening in the civil war with massive arms deliveries and sending military advisers and jihadis. The latter should not be put at a disadvantage for the gangsters of IS who in Syria also outdone looting, rape and executions. Unfortunately, as we can see, the Armenians are next today. Whatever happens, with his insane intervention policy, Erdogan threatens to set fire to the whole region and to create new refugee flows, which he will then use as a weapon to blackmail Europeans. Madam Secretary, do you think it is normal for NATO member Turkey to engage a mercenary army of jihadis against a partner country? Are you prepared to raise this matter within NATO? Do you think it is normal that Turkey still receives accession aid from the EU? Are you prepared to at least plead for the immediate cessation of this aid? Do you think it is normal that the EU still officially conducts accession negotiations with a country that constantly harms our interests? Are you prepared to call at European level for a definitive halt to the accession talks with Turkey? Finally, are you prepared to advocate sanctions against Turkey at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, let me begin by congratulating you. I look forward to seeing a lady reach this rank for the first time in our history. You represent us on the international stage in the fight for gender equality. It's important. As my colleague said, since 27 September we have been witnessing an upsurge in fighting between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the strategic stakes of Nagorny Karabakh. We deplore the numerous civilian casualties and the destruction of non-military infrastructure, and we note with concern the involvement of regional powers. I refer here to yesterday's concern expressed by the High Representative of the Union, Josep Borrell, about the internationalisation of the conflict. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, several organizations are competent to try to deploy diplomatic means to find a peaceful and lasting solution to this conflict. I am thinking in particular of the European Union, the OSCE or the Minsk Group. What is the one in your eyes that is most likely to get a ceasefire at first and then to relaunch dialogue, a process that has unfortunately been stalled in recent years? The Council of Europe is also trying to play a pacifying role in this conflict. Let us remember that both countries are members of the Council of Europe and therefore, theoretically driven by the same values of democracy and respect for human rights. What role do you think this Council of Europe can play in this matter? In any event, these struggles demonstrate that a diplomatic outcome must be found. The international community must take up this issue in order to find a definitive solution. Of course, I do not doubt your determination to support all initiatives to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u57	Mr President, on 27 September this year, many more intense fighting broke out between Armenia and Azerbaijan along the Nagorny Karabakh contact line. At present, violent heavy-weapon fighting continues to rage, and we are indeed very worried and we are not the only ones. Unfortunately, it is very difficult at this stage to know the number of victims. We are already talking about tens of thousands of refugees. It also appears that prohibited weapons are being used. I heard the question, "Are you feeling normal about this? Do you find this normal?" Well, no! Of course not! All this is not normal and it is imperative that diplomacy takes over again. Since the establishment of the ceasefire in 1994, the OSCE Minsk Group, co-chaired by France, the United States and Russia, has been working towards a peaceful and lasting resolution of the conflict. The Minsk Group, High Representative Josep Borrel, NATO and, of course, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, as well as the Member States of the European Union, immediately called for de-escalation, an immediate ceasefire and the return of everyone to the negotiating table. Since last night there is hope for a return to diplomacy. A meeting of the Minsk Group with my Azerbaijani colleague will take place in Geneva this afternoon and a second meeting will take place on Monday in Moscow, where members of the Minsk Group and my Armenian colleague will meet. I urge the Minsk process to continue. It is the only recognised international forum that has the authority to contribute to a peaceful solution to the situation. Indeed, Belgium intends to take an active part in that dossier. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council, we have placed this item on the agenda of the Security Council on behalf of the European Union on 29 September. This item will also be on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council on 12 October, where I will visit. I will obviously speak on behalf of Belgium to reiterate our full support for the mandate given by the European Council to High Representative Josep Borrell to engage in diplomatic contacts in support of the Minsk Group. You will have understood this: it is this forum, the Minsk Group, which is privileged to try to resolve this conflict through diplomatic channels, since we know that it is this diplomatic process that must be privileged. The international community as a whole is called upon, without exception - as many countries have been mentioned - to calm the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u58	Madam Minister, this is not only a geopolitical conflict, but also a clash of cultures and a direct attack on Armenia's Christian identity. You do not address the questions about Turkey, but I hope you will take the criticism to your meeting on 12 October. As far as Turkey is concerned, at the time of the Cold War, Turkey may have been a potential partner of the West, but that is long past. Today there is hardly any geostrategic space in which Turkey and the West still represent common interests, quite the contrary. Under Erdogan, Turkey's interests are no longer compatible with those of the West and we have become de facto opponents. Only you, the European Union, NATO and the UN still do not seem to have understood this or have the courage to stop Turkish arrogance and aggression. Now, once and for all, stop Turkey's accession negotiations to the European Union and press for far-reaching economic sanctions if Turkey does not stop its aggressive policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u59	Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, thank you for your answer. You refer to the meetings in Moscow and Geneva and you are right. In our view, it is essential to advocate de-escalation and a rapid ceasefire in this conflict. Nagorny Karabakh is just over 3,000 km from Brussels. Armenia and Azerbaijan are certainly not part of the European Union, but, as members of the Council of Europe, these two countries must share our values. When fighter planes belonging to a NATO member country bombard the region, when civilians lose their lives, our concern and disapproval must be expressed to all the warring parties, which was clearly done by French President Emmanuel Macron. I hear, here in this House, some who are more going into war by describing Turkey as our adversary. I would remind you that Turkey is part of the Atlantic Alliance. The Secretary-General of NATO, Mr Stoltenberg, met with the Turkish President and recalled the obvious fact, ladies and gentlemen: there is no military solution to the question of Nagorny Karabakh. I hear, Madam Minister, your very firm resolution to bring Belgium's voice to the Minsk Group. The 75,000 civilians displaced as a result of the fighting must be urgently assisted. It is half the population of this region. Let the weapons shut up and diplomacy resume its rights!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the customs officers have received the following opinion from the FPS Finances: "Because of a problem of publication of an adaptation of the Road Traffic Code in the Belgian Monitor of 1 October last, independent of our will, our vehicles are still considered priority vehicles but the agents of the General Customs and Excise Administration are no longer allowed to violate the Road Traffic Code in the course of carrying out their service missions. As a result, we are forced to temporarily suspend all monitoring missions on the highway, including biker missions." It is now impossible for customs officers to intercept an overspeed vehicle that would be suspected, for example, of transporting drugs. The effectiveness of their mission is therefore at risk. Minister, what solutions do you propose to implement to restore the situation as soon as possible? I think there's a real urgency. Are you in contact with the Minister of Finance on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u61	Mr President, Mr Arens, thank you, three times, for asking a question which I think is particularly useful, for allowing me to answer my first question of topicality, and above all for allowing me to announce good news and a solution to the problem which you are putting forward here, and which has been pinned up in the press this morning. I made contact very early this morning with the Mobility FPS, which is responsible for the issue. He informs me that, indeed, there has been a mistake in the publication in the Belgian Monitor of this law which was voted in Parliament in July. The awareness of the error has taken place and a corrective action will be published on Monday, restoring the situation. The Mobility FPS also contacted Customs to reassure them. Under no circumstances was it a matter of ostracizing this important FPS finance staff in the fight against fraud. I think that in this case, everything is well that ends well. I hope that my mandate will be in that image and that all problems will be resolved as easily as this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u62	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reply, but if I understand correctly, it is only on Monday that the corrective amount will be published in the Belgian Monitor. The weekend will not be covered by this amendment, which is nevertheless extremely urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u63	Normally, you can no longer intervene, minister, but I will leave you to the clarity of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u64	Mr President, since Mr Arens is asking me for clarification, I will be extremely precise. The corrective test was sent out on October 5, 2020 and the publication was requested as a matter of urgency. The Belgian Monitor will only be able to publish the Erratum on 12 October 2020. So I hope that the fraudsters will be well on the weekend. Admit, Mr. Arens, that things are relatively fast and that we have seen problems that were solved by asking for more time than on this file. But I do recognize your demand for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u65	The last word goes to Parliament, Mr Arens!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u66	Minister, I regret that it takes seven days because I imagine that some people will benefit from this lack of settlement, from this lack of correction, since it is indeed a correction. But it is true that I am already happy to see that the problem is solved, even if I would have liked to have done everything possible to ensure that the correction is published as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u67	Mr President, Minister, more than a thousand patients are in hospital because of the coronavirus. A clear message came from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health on Monday and the day after that there was the emergency brake in Brussels. No one doubts it: it's gonna be a tough fall. It will be a difficult autumn with new measures; the flu season starts and the days get darker and darker. For the café bosses, the days are already dark. From Friday they have to close at 11 p.m. Customers are also becoming more and more afraid to go on a café visit. Minister, when I talk to them, they tell me that they have already had a very difficult spring. Now they're gonna have more to worry about. There was indeed support. My party and other parties here in the hemisphere do not want to leave the café bosses in the cold. After all, our cafés are the beating heart of our squares, our municipalities and our cities. They have also worked very hard to keep their heads above water and to comply with security measures. These new measures are therefore particularly difficult for them. However, they are needed. They are needed so that our care staff can make it strong, so that the children can go to school and so that we can continue to meet those few friends. However, the question is whether there will still be cafes in the spring where we will be able to grab a pint. Income compensation ends at the end of October 2020. Moreover, a resolution has been adopted here in the hemisphere, but it is still there. Unfortunately, Corona is worse now. That is why we cannot stop supporting it. My question to you, Minister, is as follows. Will you work on the resolution that has been well-colored here in Parliament? Do you agree with the sp.a that the existing measures which expire at the end of October 2020 still (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u68	Mr Minister, the catering industry is well-pleased, I dare say, once again endorsed, because this week it has been communicated that the cafes will be subject to new measures which will take them deeply again: only four people per bubble, and the doors will close at 23 o'clock, so that the company at home can quietly continue the meeting. Understand who can. Minister, I am not a scientist, but what I do know is that measures must be based on facts and figures. Let that be the problem. The East Flemish governor says that only one percent of the corona contamination occurs in the hospitality industry. Even the Flemish Agency for Health and Care clearly states that a café visit is no more dangerous than the workplace. I therefore wonder why this government claims that cafes are hotspots of contamination, while the catering industry has followed as loyally as possible the imposed measures. In addition, I am getting more and more signals that the attendance lists are barely requested for the purpose of contact tracing. Minister, I would like to hear from you how often these lists are requested? In fact, I wonder whether a national measure is justified if Wallonia and Brussels are red colours while the problem is less serious in Flanders. A few months ago, this Chamber adopted a resolution on a number of concrete measures to give oxygen to the catering industry. Mr President, will you continue to be loyal to these measures without exception? I also understood, Minister, that you had a meeting with the representatives of Horeca Flanders today. What did you promise them in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u69	Minister, we are faced with very poor corona figures and a very negative evolution. We must therefore take drastic measures. The government also took it, in a very firm and united way, and defended it this afternoon. It must be said that the Prime Minister has already said that these measures are being taken massively in our neighbouring countries too. It is not only in our country that the measures are so stringent. They are sometimes even stricter in our neighbouring countries. However, for the country's most cosy sector, the consequences are huge and huge. This sector has been incredibly difficult over the last few months and will continue to be so for some time to come. It must also be said that the sector has an iron discipline for itself and for customers. I would like to thank them for that. It is also terrible bad news for all customers of the catering industry. People need social contact in times of crisis. They need to see each other, grab each other and grab a pint together. I can't do that right now. I am thinking in particular of all the students who have only recently started a new academic year. They are now faced with this. That is absolutely not fun for them either. Minister, the whole sector and my group are looking at you, as Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. What will you and the government do in the short term to give oxygen and perspective to the cafés and to extend the entire catering sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u70	I should like to congratulate Mr Pillen on his maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u71	Minister, with this health crisis, the horeca sector has become expensive, and even very expensive. It is the second most affected by the crisis. First, for three months, it was forced to close completely. Of course, the sector has been able to rely on some financial support from the public authorities and on the existence of social security to limit redundancies. However, it is impossible to ignore the seriousness of the difficulties still faced by workers and entrepreneurs in this sector. Minister, the indicators tell us, as smoke shows us fire, the persistent risks of mass bankruptcies. How can we not understand the difficulties faced by coffee makers and workers in the sector? How can they not hear their concerns about the requirement to close at 11 p.m. across the country, with very strict working conditions? In Brussels, the situation is even more difficult, since institutions are obliged to close simply for a period of one month. I will not ask you to justify all these measures from a health point of view. Of course, we must continue to combat the spread of the virus. Instead, my question will be on measures to assist the horeca sector. Support mechanisms have already been announced by the City of Brussels. We are talking about 2,000 euros, plus an exemption from rent when the buildings belong to the City. The Region should announce further measures. This is already true for Brussels institutions, but what about others at the federal level? Can you take stock of the aid granted to bars and cafes? Secondly, the issue of bridge law must be resolved quickly, since this support must end on 31 October. As the previous government had hesitated, it had requested an evaluation of the scheme by the general management committee of the sector. Did this estimate come to you? Can the measure in question be extended beyond October 31?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor for the first time today as Minister for Independents and Enterprise. I will be keen to do the best I can for all these economic actors in our country. It was in this spirit that I received this morning the representatives of the horeca sector of the three regions, including Horeca Vlaanderen, Mr Van Lommel. The latest decisions taken at the federal and Brussels level have the effect of a club break for a sector already heavily affected by the crisis. Of course I wanted to meet them first. They all suffer: the cafés and bars - which are particularly affected by the last measures -, the restaurants and the hotels, even though they each have their own reality. You're asking me about the impact of the crisis on the sector. For a sector such as Horeca and others - events, travel agencies, cultural entrepreneurs, taximen, etc. - the impact of the crisis is enormous. We must be with them now and for the future. Supportive measures have already been taken. I am thinking, for example, of the right of bridging, temporary unemployment, the reduction of VAT, the exemption from the annual BFSA contribution or the reduction of the corporate tax. Of course, other measures are needed. More specifically, the sectors most affected should be supported. Horeca has an average turnover decrease of 42%. Last June, the reopening of bars and restaurants had had a positive impact, but the improvement has been weak since then. So you can easily imagine the dramatic impact that the latest decisions will have. The situation is disastrous, especially for hotels in the major cities of the country. Capacity utilisation has been close to zero for several months. This is due in particular to the situation of tourism and the telework recommended by the authorities. I am also thinking of nightclubs and nightclubs that are still closed. I thank the industry for its professionalism and the quality of our discussions at this morning's meeting. As a result, I would like to see short-term measures taken. That is why I will be presenting to the government in the very near future a project to extend the bridge right of resumption. As several of you have pointed out, it was scheduled to cease by 31 October for coerced areas. It is indeed imperative that it be maintained until the end of the year. Finally, I would like to launch, together with my colleagues from the government, a catering plan to support the sector and revive it. Next week there will be a new working meeting on the planning, with the sector and my cabinet. I will, of course, support any measure which will allow the Horeca to renew itself, to redeploy itself and, of course, to preserve employment. Horeca represents 186,000 full-time equivalents. He is therefore a great provider of local jobs for our economy. You will have to be creative, knowing that increasing the number of job seekers and increasing the number of bankruptcies will cost the community much more than supporting those who want to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u73	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are adopting my group's position and that you will actually extend the right of bridging. Let us be honest: the cafés are also in the front line of what is coming towards us. People will work more at home, which will have consequences on their income, and more people will go out less, which will also have consequences on people's income. I am also pleased that you will examine together which sectors are most affected and which sectors need support, because it is important that we do not lose any more small companies to corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u74	Minister, you have not been able to convince me, because the catering industry is screwed. Numbers, Minister, I want figures. I am today in solidarity with the catering industry, which again, rightly, feels endorsed. The government takes decisions without it being able to make those decisions with figures and is therefore going blind. In order to make a decision that puts an entire sector in even more trouble, one cannot just go over one night ice and one must first release all the necessary data. Restaurants were already having a hard time and these ill-thought-out measures threaten many catering entrepreneurs who were already on the verge of bankruptcy to take the final shot. This government has clearly learned nothing from the great chaos of the past few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u75	Minister, it is clear that you did not wait for your cabinet, because you took immediate action. This morning there was already consultation with Horeca Vlaanderen and the other two sector organisations. It is very clear that you are pursuing the positive line taken by the previous Minister of Finance, our current Prime Minister. I would like to make it clear once again that my party and this government will remain 100% behind the catering industry and its tens of thousands of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u76	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your reply, which will reassure us. You will agree with me: the fight against VOCID-19 takes place on two legs, that of health and that of socio-economic recovery. This falls well because it is two fundamental pillars and two strong axes of government that we support. We Socialists ask you to show maximum ambition for this sector, but also for all the others. It is about the future of our economic fabric and the social link that underpins it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u77	Mr President, Minister, pensions are likely to be an important issue for this legislature. That's no more than normal. We have a lot of questions and we have asked a lot of questions over the past few weeks. Is 1,500 euro now minimum, net or gross? And the most important thing is still to be addressed. Who is eligible for this? This is very important, especially in Belgium, where pensions are one of the lowest in comparison with neighbouring countries and Western Europe. You want to move towards 1,500 euros. It has been clear over the past week that you have not yet fully agreed on which direction it is heading. When we think that the debate is over, we read in the newspaper that the De Croo government is throwing the early retirement for heavy-duty professions not in the fridge, not in the freezer, but in the trash. The working man will be punished twice. We've been working for up to 67 years. There is no longer any question of 65 years. Besides, there's no way to stop early. Which one of you has actually worked in a company? By that, I don't mean washing dishes as a student job. I was a Ford worker. I and many of my colleagues have chronic diseases in the heart, bones, sugar levels, lungs and so on. This is not just the case for Ford's employees, but for many companies and sectors. We've been applause for our heroes for the past few months. What exactly do we expect? We expect those heroes to be older than the ones who will take care of them. Would you trust a 66-year-old roof worker on your roof? I don't. This government has now confirmed 67 years for everyone, including the heavy professions. Or can you compensate this with 1,500 euros net? In De Morgen I read that you hope to do another gesture for those who have had a tough career. Does this mean they can quit sooner or will you make a financial contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I expected this question. Last week an agreement was reached between the partners of this new majority on the increase in the minimum pension. A progressive increase in the minimum pension towards EUR 1,500 net for the entire career has been decided. The government agreement provides for some €2.2 billion of additional expenditure for the raising of some social benefits, including the minimum pension. By 2024, the government will progressively grant EUR 1,182 billion on top of the two welfare envelopes to improve the minimum pensions of the three schemes: employees, self-employed persons and statutory staff. The government is also committed to maintaining the wealth envelope. For example, we want social dialogue to play an active role in the implementation of these social objectives. Understand me, we will do this together, in good cooperation between the government and the social partners. Together, we want to increase the minimum pensions towards EUR 1,500 net by the end of the legislature. This means an increase of 20% in minimum pensions. In this important social improvement there is equal treatment between the three pension systems. There's no discrimination. So I would like us to stop using sterile and unnecessary polemics. The social investment to improve the lowest pensions is unprecedented in recent history. The government's commitment is clear. We want to stand there to really tackle the societal challenges. It's not words, it's deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u79	Madam Secretary, I was expecting that answer. I haven't heard you say a word about the heavy professions. Madam Secretary, you had only taken the oath for two days and the heavy professions were already in the wastebasket. You say you will raise minimum pensions in 2024, but who will receive a full pension? We know that three-quarters of women do not get 45 years of service, and you say that you will create systems and argue matters until you finally get 1,500 euros in 2024. 1,500 euros in 2024 is not the same as 1,500 euros at the moment. Together with the social partners, we will do everything we can to get the EUR 1,500 confirmed. We will go on the streets, but the most important thing is that the heavy professions are recognized, and we will do everything we can to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u80	Madam Secretary, due to the COVID-19 crisis, the price of oil fell. In our Antwerp chemical cluster, among other things, the price for new plastic drops. As a result, it has become more interesting to make plastics from new raw materials than recycled plastics. This has a very important impact on our circular economy. Our companies that recycle plastics, therefore, are calling the alarm bell. During an internship in a large Antwerp refinery, I determined how they also invest in the circular economy, but also how hard the investment is to achieve a department around recycling plastics. By the way, our universities are involved in this. We do not want plastics to enter the incinerator again. Nor do we want our plastic waste to be secreted to Asia to be dumped there. Madam Minister, has the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the circular economy already been discussed with the relevant ministers in the regions? Has there been any consultation with the sector? If so, what is the result? What measures can be taken to support the sector? For the circular economy, it is important to use and reuse materials in a smart and sustainable way. The government intends to develop a federal action plan on circular economy in coordination with the Länder. What steps will you take to make that intention happen as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u81	Mr Briers, thank you for your interesting and pertinent question, which will be my baptism of fire. Let me first answer in general terms. Using a circular economy has a positive impact on environmental, social and economic issues, for example, several studies at European level and in Belgium have already shown. Let that be the three dimensions of sustainable development. In the coalition agreement that was discussed in Parliament last week, therefore, a point on circular economy is explicitly addressed in the chapter "A sustainable country." I would also draw your attention to the Roadmap of the European Green Deal. One of the most important actions is an industrial strategy for a clean and circular economy. I will shortly, in accordance with the government agreement, together with Mr Dermagne, Minister for Work and Economics, take the initiative to draw up, in conjunction with the Länder, a federal action plan on circular economy. The knowledge and expertise in both our administrations will help with this. It is high time to move a gear higher, that is clear. Indeed, the COVID-19 crisis made the vulnerability of vital functions in our country painfully clear. A post-COVID-19 strategy is very important. The situation you set out in your question is an explicit illustration of this vulnerability, which we must deal with, including in the development of an industrial strategy aimed at the future and not at the past. I say that because we also want to invite the Antwerp chemist cluster to participate in that future of and for our children and grandchildren. A choice for recycled plastic can indeed be a choice for the future. A choice for plastic from fossil fuels, derived from fracking, is a choice for the past. Allow me briefly to answer your specific questions. I just outlined the framework and the starting point, the Green Deal, for the federal action plan to be prepared. It is clear that, in this context, we will have to take on board the new challenges since the start of the COOVID-19 crisis. Providing legal certainty and investment security for the industry of the future is one of them. All the governments and actors in our country will have to shoulder their responsibilities. By the way, we're going to have a chance for this very soon. Among other things, we already have an EU directive, an EC strategy and a proposal for EU taxation. They will all guide the policy in Belgium. We are undoubtedly facing an interesting and interesting process and, as I have already said, my aim is to protect all generations, present and future, including in the dossier cited. Mr Briers, I suggest that we deal with the subject quickly in the relevant parliamentary committee to discuss it in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u82	You have exceeded your speaking time, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u83	Madam Secretary, every Fleming, every Brusselser and every Waal does it daily, sorting to recycle. That is precisely why it is crucial that we support the circular economy. I have a good feeling about your reaction. Your comprehensive answer makes me very happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u84	Madam Minister, Mr Briers has given you part of his reply. All the beginnings are difficult, but you know the speaking time ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u85	End of Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u86	The following candidates were nominated: - Ms. Eliane Tillieux; - Mrs Valerie Van Peel. The following candidates were nominated: - mevrouw Eliane Tillieux; - Mrs Valerie Van Peel. We can now declare the vote open. I mentioned at the beginning of the sitting when it will be closed. We will announce the results of that vote next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur-designate is our former colleague, Mr Benoît Friart. It seems to me that, out of parliamentary politeness, we must refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u88	That's right, Mr. President. Mr. Friart forgot to tell you when he left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course the government has the essential task of protecting the essential interests of our community. This also means, however, that it must prevent unsuitable persons from offering certain products or services which may be harmful to, inter alia, public health, public security and the public interest. So far, I agree. However, this draft law goes much further. In our opinion, the draft law is problematic. First of all, the European Union is trying to prevent the transposition of a European directive on the limitation of access to certain professions by Belgium, which at the same time would mean that certain sectors will have even more difficulty in protecting themselves from competition from workers from other Member States. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that this obligation, which the European Union imposes on us, affects our autonomy and, at the same time, affects our subsidiarity. Moreover, the regions will naturally also have to assume their responsibilities in this respect. Nevertheless, I would like to add, as I have done before, that Belgium is hopelessly late again. After all, the transposition of this European directive had to take place by 30 July 2020. The draft law itself was submitted by the previous government on 10 July 2020, while the Council of State's opinion was already there on 22 January 2020. The question arises as to whether this still falls under good governance. Colleagues, with this argument, the Flemish interest can only fail to approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u90	Colleagues, on my list of speakers is the name of Mr Roberto D'Amico, who is not present. Normally, it should be. So...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u91	Mr President, normally he should be there, but in view of the Members' order of passage, it is not easy to organise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u92	Mr Van Hees, it is not easy to hear you. I know we have to wear a mouth mask, but if you speak it might be better to take it away for a while. If he's around, he can join us. Is he coming? I think that's what you said!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u93	I think he's got to be here. Are there other stakeholders for this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u94	No, I don't have any other ones in the general discussion. That's the problem! I would like to move on to the discussion of the articles. The discussion is not closed. So if he's in the area, we'll see! Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u95	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1340/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1340/1) The bill has 15 articles. The draft law has 15 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mr Vanbesien.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u98	Mr President, this was the last draft bill of Minister de Croo in his position as Minister of Finance. He managed to get unanimity for it. I would also like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I am a little surprised at the ease with which some parties who claim to be on the left approve of this financing from the IMF. To begin with – as has already been mentioned in committee by some colleagues – the United States has a de facto right of veto in this institution. Let's call a cat a cat: the IMF is an instrument of the United States to export its monetary policy around the world. Therefore, it cannot be said that the IMF, since its existence, has already achieved very good results. Finally, good results for the financial markets, but at the price of disastrous consequences for the people. We can go back a few decades in history to remind you of the extent to which the IMF imposed an ultraliberal policy in Latin America and how catastrophic its management of the Asian crisis was. It has imposed drastic cuts in health, in education; it has imposed privatisations on everything, etc. For example, it has prompted local producers to produce for export rather than for meeting the needs of local populations. Ladies and gentlemen, should we recall what happened in Greece, not so long ago? IMF policy, with the complicity of the European Union, under the leadership of this famous troika, has starved this country. When I say "starved", it is literally, because hundreds of thousands of Greeks suffer from malnutrition, to the point that children lose consciousness in school classes, today, in Greece. But for the IMF, people don't matter. It is the sacrosanct financial stability that comes first, that is, to assure the bankers and speculators that they will not lose their money. It is true that the Socialist colleagues, the PS and the Sp.a – finally, Vooruit, but in the report, it is sp.a! –, pointed out in committee the too strict conditions that the IMF imposes to intervene, to grant loans. But they conclude that they will still approve the bill, because it is multilateral collaboration. I do not understand the logic, according to which we are not too much fan of the IMF, but we are still giving it the means to impose its detestable policy! The IMF insists that all countries approve this financing as soon as possible in order to be able to cope with any currency crises that may arise following the Coronavirus crisis. But we can already see that it imposes political conditions on the aid it could provide in the case in question. For example, it refuses to grant credits to certain countries that are conducting policies too far to the left. It is not a question of aid, if the terms used in the bill under consideration or by the IMF are used, but it is a question of pushing the peoples of those countries even more into misery. In conclusion, Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some of you have invoked international solidarity to support this bill that is part of the IMF's plans. It is in the name of this international solidarity that the PTB will vote against the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is our first meeting. Last week I wanted to ask you a number of questions about your government's budget table, but unfortunately it did not. In the meantime, I have submitted an interview, and I will see you in committee shortly. In this respect, the members of the IMF have long discussed the financial capacity of the institution under the so-called fifteenth quota review. In January 2020, members decided to double the new loan agreements and extend some of the bilateral loans from 2021 onwards. The IMF's resources consist of approximately half of permanent quota resources deposited by the 189 Member States of the IMF. In addition, the IMF makes use of borrowed temporary resources, to which only some 40 Member States contribute. That last group of resources is the subject of today's debate. The Member States of the IMF should approve the shift from focus to this second group of resources by the end of this year. President Trump evokes a lot of controversy day after day, but he also does a number of good things. In the meantime, we know that the United States is doing its bit in this area too. The US represents 15.5% of the new loan agreements. At the beginning of this year, the US government promised to live up to the new commitments and on March 27, the US Congress passed the legislation effectively. So we see that even the Trump administration under an America First policy agrees with this shift, which was approved by the US Congress. President Trump's presence guarantees us that the role and power of international institutions such as the IMF, as well as other institutions, will remain under control. We have seen, among other things, that the role and power of international institutions such as the World Health Organisation, the World Bank or the IMF could grow further. That is no longer the case today. We do regard the IMF as the most important institution to ensure the stability of the international monetary system. On the one hand, the corona crisis has shown that global financial and economic risks have increased due to the interconnectedness of the different financial systems and the volatility of international capital flows. On the other hand, the IMF has not grown in size since 2010, while economies and public debt, including in this country. especially public debt than................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Moreover, since the financial crisis of 2008, the IMF has taken steps, of which I quote three. Firstly, the financial regulation of the IMF has been strengthened, secondly, the monitoring of the development of global financial systemic risks has been improved and thirdly, several regional safety nets have been established in the meantime. To make a long story short, we will approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u101	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u102	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1493/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1493/1) The bill has two articles, as well as an annex. The draft law contains two articles, as well as an annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u104	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kathleen Depoorter
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Jan Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give you a brief but thorough report on the work of our Health Committee on the legislative proposal before us. I hope that we will all be able to act positively together. The first exchange of views on this proposal to amend the law of 25 March 1964 on medicinal products with regard to programmes for use in distressing cases and medical emergencies dates back to March. All the groups, and I would like to emphasise this, broadly agreed, or to some extent, with the intention of the proposal, in particular to relax the conditions under which the exemption programmes can be used, especially for innovative and expensive medicines, the exception programmes on distressing cases and medical emergencies. At present, these programmes cannot be used for the benefit of patients who need medicinal products if an alternative medicinal product is authorised and marketed. This proposal extends the scope of the two exception procedures. It provides for an additional condition, in particular that the alternative medicinal product is also reimbursed by health insurance. Thus, the existence of an alternative medicinal product which is authorised and available on the market but which is not reimbursed will no longer constitute an obstacle to recourse to the mentioned exception procedures. The patient's access to these procedures is thus increased. Access for patients with a mostly rare disease is made wider. The other conditions for the use of the exception procedures, distressing cases, mentioned in the jargon compassionate use, and emergency medical programmes, referred to in the jargon medical need, including the temporary permit to be delivered, remain valid. On the basis of the various substantive and legal opinions sought, the members of the committee discussed the opportunity, the possible side effects of this measure on the pharmaceutical market, and certainly its compatibility with European legislation. The proposal was adopted by a very large majority in committee in both a first and a second reading, after a legislative note from the services of the Chamber, attached to the report. Today the proposal will be put to the vote in this plenary. Mr President, with your permission, I will briefly explain the position of the sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u107	I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u108	Mr President, from the sp.a Group we support this proposal. The affordability and accessibility of medicines have always been a priority for our sp.a group, for which we continue to fight, as you all know. We are therefore pleased, following the hearing in Parliament on the accessibility of medicines, that with the present proposal, we can, of course, solve one element, not everything, but all that one element, namely the accessibility and affordability of medicines for chronic patients, patients with rare or life-threatening diseases. That is a step forward for a certain group of severely affected patients. Not that there is nothing yet, for example the Special Solidarity Fund, but it is nevertheless a step forward. Patients in need of new innovative medicines that have not yet completed the full procedure can now have more flexible access to the exception procedures I have just mentioned. This can be done through an apology for yet another professional jargon called the early temporal authorisation, which I can describe as temporary permits. Therefore, derogations for distressing cases and emergency medical programmes for people with an indication other than those for which the medicinal product has been provisionally described will now be more accessible. We will monitor the impact of this good proposal in order to assess what is actually happening on the ground, both on the pharmaceutical market and on patients. By the way, we are sure that this will have a positive impact. Accessibility, quality and affordability of medicines remain priority number 1 for our group. We will continue to fight for this and the coalition agreement provides for further steps to be taken in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u109	Mr President, as the rapporteur has explained, we are talking about the law on distressing cases and emergency medical programmes. When we talk about innovative medicines and their accessibility, this legislative amendment will make a difference, in particular, for the patient, the few patients but still patients who need these programmes. In March, we started to talk and negotiate this bill, which was supported by the Committee on Medicinal Products and the Flemish Patient Platform. As I said, it is very important for patients. I am very pleased that we can put the legislative proposal to the vote today. We are not going to solve the whole problem of access to medicines, of course, and this has never been said. However, we are going to provide a solution to certain cases which do not have access to very innovative and very expensive medicines. So we will take a very small step that can have a very large impact on society in the lives of certain patients. In distressing cases, the pharmaceutical company will request an exception from the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products for a certain group of patients. These include very sick patients, patients with chronic disease, patients with life-threatening disease, patients whose quality of life is greatly undermined by their chronic disease. As Mr Bertels said, there should at present be no alternative medicine that is authorised and on the market to treat that patient. Once the application has been approved, the patient will be treated at the expense of the pharmaceutical company. This means that we do not impose any burden on the pharmaceutical budget. That was also an important point in the negotiations we had. In the case of emergency medical programmes, the difference is that there is a authorised medicine for the distressing cases, but for another indication. That may seem a bit technical, but I can explain it very simply. A particular medicine authorised for brain tumours can be used to treat a patient with a primary brain tumour. A patient with a metastasis, a metastasis in the brain, cannot be treated with it. What is so important to the patient in question? When one no longer has a great outlook for life, there is no longer time to wait for a permit. This medication is almost always very expensive. If there is no permission to start a medical emergency program, it depends on the patient's environment, on their creativity, whether the therapy can be started or not, for example by holding a fundraising. I am convinced that no one wants to refuse therapies, we have also discussed this in committee, which do not cost health insurance money, for which the pharmaceutical companies commit themselves and which can condemn the patient to life or death. With this amendment of the law, we can thus increase the number of patients in these programmes. Colleague, it is clear that this will be monitored. That is also what we are expected to do when it comes to public health. We have also discussed quite extensively in committee the FAGG and RIZIV's remark that this could distort the market. However, we are talking about a niche and not about a broad spectrum of patients. So I do not think that this market distortion is an argument. In addition, it was noted that these programmes are limited in duration. That also makes sense. The pharmaceutical company is committed to the patient as soon as the program is started. However, this is not a sustainable solution. We need to look at sustainable solutions for innovation. If, in the long term, the two medicines, i.e. the medicine in the program and the alternative, are not authorised or refunded, one can assume that it is either not sufficiently evidence-based or that the price is exuberantly high and not socially responsible. A final remark from the FAGG and the RIZIV questioned the conformity of this legislation with European legislation. We have then received a final note from the Legal Service of the Chamber which reassured us. It's been checked again. So we can move forward with this change of law. What struck me throughout this procedure is that the FAGG and the RIZIV have given contradictory opinions on the Commission for Medicinal Products for Human Use. Perhaps in future we can examine the basis of this in hearings. Belgium is only in the middle of accessibility. Everyone agrees that steps need to be taken there. So how come two public institutions have given contradictory opinions here? We will certainly make the big exercise in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. We really owe it to our patients. Let us be honest, benefits that need to be organized to bring such medication to the patient are heartwarming, but I do not think that stands for the broad and accessible social security we want to ensure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u110	Mr President, are we not following the orders of the groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u111	Mrs. Tillieux is not on my list. But if you want to follow the orders of the groups, I give the floor first to Mrs Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning of the discussions on this bill, my group wanted to support these objectives because we know that today a number of patients, who are actually few, who suffer from chronic disease, a serious disease or are a threat to their lives, are still unable to be treated, simply because no treatment is available on the market. For these patients, programs such as Compassionate Use and Medical Need are often their lifeline, with the pharmaceutical industry making available to them, via AFMPS, a treatment used for another indication or which is only the subject of an application for a marketing authorisation or which is only still in clinical trials. Today, what the text provides for is that these programmes may also be authorised when there is a marketed treatment but the latter is not yet reimbursed because it is also known that, because of the innovative nature of these treatments, they are often extremely expensive. This will enable patients, if the firm consents of course, to still benefit from this unreimbursed treatment. The aim of the text is therefore to improve the accessibility of treatment to patients and, in this regard, we will continue to support it. The advice provided by the Chamber's legal services also confirmed that the text did not contravene European legislation. However, it will be essential to rethink these systems in the future, to frame them further in a broader reflection on our medicine policy so that we can always in the future have innovative medicines, medicines accessible financially for both patients and for our health care insurance and medicines with real therapeutic added value based on the needs of our citizens. Given that these elements are part of the new government agreement, Minister, we will undoubtedly be able to work very constructively on this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u113	Mr President, we all remember the story of Pia. The parents organized a big benefit for that scandalously expensive injection of 1.9 million euros. One of Novartis' excuses at that time for not making this available as part of a medical emergency program or compassionate use was that there was actually an alternative on the market. However, this was not repaid. Sometimes it comes down to the fact that there are actually little words in the law that firms can hide behind. This is now being taken out of the law, allowing more patients to benefit from such programmes. However, many questions remain as to whether the situation is changing effectively. The company Novartis organized a lottery at the time. They've gone through with it. Another patient was able to enjoy that lottery. However, there are many questions about this. Is it normal to do something like that? Is that okay? This law doesn't change that. I find this kind of practice regrettable. You came up with this proposal for the pins. It was indeed interesting to investigate what we are doing with products that are not yet on the market or for any other indication on the market, in the context of very serious diseases. That was the scope. At that time, however, we noted in committee that Novartis did do it against EUR 1.9 million and not through compassionate use. That's an excuse, they did it for a fee. Secondly, they have organized a lottery, which is a truly unethical practice. It is therefore regrettable that at that time the committee was not inclined to hear Novartis in the context of the discussion of this bill and possibly to talk about these unethical practices. We will, of course, approve the bill, because any excuse must be removed from the law. However, the problem remains, among other things, that the initiative still has to come from the firm and that ultimately the firms can continue with these unethical practices. Secondly, the biggest problem is the sky-high price the companies charge for innovative medication. We all know that this is a huge problem for our budget. We will have to find other solutions for this. For example, we have allowed brake desivir to be used as part of the COOVID-19 pandemic. Remdesivir is promising and has already come on the market at some point to combat Ebola. What do we notice? A box actually costs six dollars, but the company that markets the product requires more than 400 euros. That is therefore EUR 2,000 for the whole treatment and thus a much higher price than the actual cost. That is a broader debate that we must continue. That is where the real problem lies. We must therefore look at how we can make innovative medicines available and, at the same time, deal with the usury prices that are being demanded today, which endanger our social security and which, of course, also endanger the health of patients, as may be their personal situation, if the medicine is not yet reimbursed. The PVDA has put forward proposals in the Chamber on this point, such as the proposal on compulsory licences. We hope that we will soon be able to discuss this in order to see what we can do to make innovative medicines available to our patients at a normal price.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a positive initiative that we have supported from the beginning. Of course, these are a small number of patients, but at the same time, they are patients who generally have a serious and rare pathology with a life-threatening commitment. This issue has been the subject of much discussion for several months. Throughout these debates, what really challenged me was the way in which some parties considered that it could disrupt the market. However, in the light of the famous secret agreements, in the context of the former Article 81 which became Article 111, which have multiplied in an incredible way in recent years, the least we can say is that this advance will not disturb the market in contrast to what could be seen in the wake of the explosion of these famous Articles 111 which translate the secret articles for certain innovative medicines. While this is a positive step forward, an essential debate remains on early access to innovative medicines for rare diseases. Let us acknowledge that Belgium is not at the forefront of this matter! There is still a whole debate about the cost to the patient, which must allow for availability and accessibility to all patients. In addition, this debate will also have to move forward on the cost side of social security. In this regard, at the CDH, we continue to argue for reasonable price clauses. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have the opportunity – especially the government with an indispensable evolution of the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products – to take positive steps for health and for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u115	Mr President, I would like to repeat what the honourable Member said. It was never intended to open a witch hunt for certain pharmaceutical manufacturers with the bill; it is intended to give patients access to innovation, in consultation with pharmaceutical companies. That is the crux of the matter. We have experienced the problems of Zolgensma and Spinraza, condemning the lottery. After all, human lives cannot be played with; human lives are not a lottery ticket. This bill was about helping more patients through the programmes for distressing cases and medical needs. That was the consensus in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u116	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u117	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (986/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (986/7) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u120	Mr President, I propose to refer to the written reports. It is true that we accelerated things because it was important. But a report for each of the two readings is now available. I refer to these two reports, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u121	Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u122	Mr President, we have before us an important draft law which should finally provide a definitive legal basis for the databases at Sciensano which centralise the data in the context of the contact investigation, as well as for the contact search application, the so-called corona app. The least we can say about that is that it has had a lot of feet in the earth to arrive at that legal basis. The main problem was the complexity of the division of powers in Belgium. A central data collection has been chosen to ensure that the data are also available for scientific research, while the competence for contact research lies with the Communities. Our concern about this draft law was, in particular, the observation by the Council of State that it raised the problem that the French Community and the French Community Commission were not parties to the cooperation agreement. However, they are competent for the French-speaking university hospitals and for the Brussels university and private hospitals. Because it was not clear after the first reading whether this could have consequences for the validity of the cooperation agreement, our group requested a second reading. The Legal Service then noted that this cooperation agreement could not indeed impose obligations on French-speaking university hospitals and on Brussels university and private hospitals. That is why our group would have preferred the French Community and the French Commission to have co-signed the cooperation agreement. In view of the urgency and importance of the draft law, we have supported the cooperation agreement and we shall do so here too, assuming that we are well aware of its limitations and, above all, in the hope that it will not come into being afterwards. The path of this cooperation agreement is a good illustration of the mess of powers in health care, especially since the crumbling sixth state reform. Again, this dossier is painfully showing that the surrealist construction called Belgium is longing for a major system reform, a paradigmashif. Colleagues of the majority, you know our medicine against this disease: confederalism. If this government succeeds in reaching a consensus on a cure by the end of this legislature, we are afraid that this will be a strange cocktail of seven ingredients that will cause a lot of unwanted side effects which will make the sick patient, we fear, even more sick. We certainly hope that the new Health Minister will work on a pandemic plan. A database should be part of such a pandemic plan. Our motion for a resolution on this matter dates back to July. We will soon be putting it on the agenda of the Health Committee. We therefore hope that this experience, which had to be worked head-on and in different steps, will be a good lesson and that in the coming period, hopefully in a post-pandemic period, a thorough preparation plan will be drawn up so that the necessary databases for any subsequent pandemic can enter into force immediately without having to debate for months and find out who is responsible for what.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I read the original bill, I have to admit that I was spontaneously reminded of the infamous statement: 1984 was a warning, not a manual. The proposal was removed because everyone felt without any doubt that this proposal would not survive the flow of criticism. Fair criticism, by the way. Not only would a huge amount of data be collected about the people, but there would also be unnecessary and double data collected. I am thinking of the national register number, on the one hand, and the date of birth and the sex, on the other. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the national register number contains a reference to the latter two. Apart from the amount of data collected, in practice I can only observe that these databases are always set up with the best of intentions, but at the same time the door is always open for what I would call euphemistically an improper use, an unwanted use. Without wanting to seem paranoid, a number of questions remain, even with this new bill. Who guarantees me the security of my data? Who guarantees me that the data will be deleted when they need to be deleted? How do I get access to the data that is kept about me and how the hell do I get out of that database? I already got a few answers to some of those questions in the Health Committee. Those answers then screened with the GDPR, with the Data Protection Authority, with the technical security of separate databases - and believe me, I know something about that from a long time ago - but still I remain with those kinds of answers to those kinds of questions with a gruesome feeling. After all, there is often a big difference between what can and cannot be done and what in practice does and does not happen with the data from a database. During one of these hearings, Mr Emmanuel André said that everything is related to the confidence of citizens in this system. You will believe me when I say that given the approach, given the handling of this crisis and given the communication so far - so you still enjoy the benefit of the doubt, Minister - public confidence is not particularly high. You will even want to understand that we, as Flemish nationalists, have a bit of trouble, and then I express myself very gently, to get into the umpteenth database of the Belgian State, a database in which not only positive tested people end up, but also people who are suspected of being infected. A presumption is therefore sufficient. Allow me to question that. Not only infected or suspected infected people are included in that database, but also their contacts. Before you know it, the entire population is in that database and, worse still, who's been in touch with who. Personally, I find that unacceptable. With a sense of exaggeration, we could argue that the presumption of innocence and the right to privacy are used as a footsweep, even if that is perhaps not the intention of this bill. That database, together with the so-called mobile brigades, calls to me haunted images of intelligence services of historical and even historically reprehensible regimes that I will not name again, in order to spare the feelings of the former Health Minister. It is a set of databases where potential is very quickly in the full population and also the relational connections of the population. To tell you the truth, I'm getting some goosebumps. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not always a problem when I stand here on the occasion of the speech, there is also some good news to be heard. Despite the fact that we were somewhat behind the facts with the committee on the app, discussions were still taking place on the day the app was launched. The Flemish interest is satisfied that its installation is and remains on a voluntary basis and that no advantages or disadvantages can be attached to the installation of the app. For the Flemish Interest, that is good news. With regard to the database, it is very clear for the Flemish Interest. We do not trust the Belgian State anyway, and certainly not with our data. That is one of the reasons, along with many others, why we will not approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u124	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to close a long story. Since March, we have talked about tracing the application of data banks. Current issues were raised with Minister De Backer. A motion for a resolution was adopted in this House, as were several bills. Finally, a cooperation agreement has been concluded. The purpose of this bill is therefore to seek its concurrence. We are therefore familiar with this subject. Today is an important moment, because the vote on this bill can help us fight the spread of coronavirus. At each National Security Council as well as at the last consultation committee, difficult decisions have been taken. They are not without consequences and affect the daily lives of our citizens, their social lives and the functioning of our economy. Unfortunately, after the summer holidays, we are now witnessing another worrying health situation. The new measures that have been taken, Minister, indicate that you have taken stock of the situation. You are pursuing the policy of the previous government. With your expertise and skill, you inspire us trust. The bill that we have to deal with today therefore endorses a cooperation agreement on the Sciensano database and also provides the legal basis for a co-operation agreement for the Coronalert application. Our behaviors are obviously decisive in the fight against VOCID-19. We must make every effort, through the means at our disposal: the barrier gestures - we will never say enough - the physical or social distance - as we want to call it - but also - and that is what we are dealing with today - the setting up of tracing, in addition to what we are asking for and which you are deploying, namely a large testing capacity and massive screening. All these measures, we hope, will allow us to slow down the spread of this virus and, above all, to avoid further containment. It is also a matter of concern that the Brussels Region had to decide yesterday on the closure of bars and cafes, while perhaps a more neighbourhood-focused approach would have been less harmful and more effective. In addition to strengthening our testing capacity, we support the government's idea of signing a cooperation agreement to allow this tracking of contacts. However, at the time, the draft law had given rise to a series of comments from the Data Protection Authority. The bill and the cooperation agreement take into account some of these remarks. In implementing the Coronalert application, the DP3T protocol was chosen. It is a decentralized solution that allows scientists to control the source code of the application and to verify compliance with the protection of personal data. The lack of geolocation data processing in the application is also good news, which we support, with regard to the protection of privacy, which is obviously very important for the Liberals. Some of the suggestions we made were not taken into account in the cooperation agreement, and I regret that. If the project actually provides, in accordance with a recommendation from the Authority, for the publication of the data protection impact assessment, it should, in the interests of transparency, also require the publication of the opinion of the Authority on the data protection impact assessment. We hope, moreover, that the need for tracing, manual by call centres and digital by the Coronalert application, will be assessed over time, and that at regular intervals, the necessary interference in the right to privacy is verified to be justified and to be proportionate to the aim pursued, depending on the evolution of the epidemiological situation. Following the analysis of the text at second reading after our work in the Committee on Health, the legal note from the Chamber's Legal Service, a service which I would like to thank for its work, reassured us that the French Community and the Joint Community Commission should not be involved in the cooperation agreement. There is therefore no concern about this. There is no reason to wait or to reach agreement on their behalf. All this being said, as we have already mentioned, the MR Group will support this very important bill in the fight against the spread of the virus, a virus that we have been fighting tirelessly for several months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u125	Mr President, I would like to stress that contact and source research is essential for us to combat the epidemic. Today, however, contact research is failing, which is largely explained by the bureaucratic approach of using commercial call centres among others. Contact research requires trust and knowledge of what is happening on the ground. So we need a local approach, with a crucial role for the first line. This first line must be supported and it is not for nothing that we do local contract tracing with our patients with our medical group practices for the People themselves. The present cooperation agreement combines two cases, following a destructive opinion from the Council of State, namely the legal framework for the central databases of Sciensano and the legal framework for a corona app. Firstly, as far as the corona app is concerned, I can be brief, because we are not convinced that such an application will contribute much to a better contact investigation. A corona app hasn't proved really effective so far. It also involves democratic dangers and may lead to additional discrimination. What about the people who don't have the app? In our view, technology can help in the fight against the virus, but it should above all support the health workers in the field and should not be used to replace them. Secondly, on the original bill for the database for classical contact research there was severe criticism from human rights organisations such as the Ligue des droits humains. Together with Amnesty International, the league submitted an alternative bill. We note that some aspects of this have been taken over, which is positive, but others have not been taken over and it was not always clear in the discussions why this did not happen. However, the discussion in committee has not been able to reassure us that all the necessary measures have been taken to adequately protect the right to privacy. I would also like to stress that the dossier is a very painful illustration of the institutional difficulties in our country. We need to establish a total of five databases today, each with their controller, for example. It would be much simpler and more normal for there to be a single central database, which could also be used locally in the first-line zones. In conclusion, we see how the contact research on the ground is going to fail today. A fundamental ingredient is lacking, namely the confidence of the population, and what is now before us, in particular the solutions sought in digital applications, is not being met, quite the contrary. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u126	Mr President, today we are voting on an important cooperation agreement. This agreement is necessary in order to adapt the databases of Sciensano and make them available to the Communities in order to make contact tracing possible. As Mrs Merckx says, that is essential to break the chain of infection. Different databases are needed. In doing so, we also follow the opinions of the Data Protection Authority and the Information Security Committee. It was the Council of State which considered that a cooperation agreement was necessary in order to make the Sciensano database available to the Communities. The cooperation agreement was also made quickly, which contrasts with my experience at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which sometimes takes a year and a half before cooperation agreements are concluded. It was a great deal of work for many people, and I would like to thank everyone who participated in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u127	Mr President, very briefly, the tracing, not of patients but of the virus, - is it necessary to repeat it again and hammer it? Because when we talk about tracing, some people, and it's legitimate, are worried that it's they that are traced, while it's the virus - is an extremely important pillar in the fight against any pandemic, and a fortiori for VOCID-19. Indeed, it allows positive cases to be detected as quickly as possible among a patient's contacts, but also mainly to isolate and break transmission chains. As far as the principle of tracing is concerned, we are very much in favour of it. We will therefore support this cooperation agreement, even if the way in which the database was designed in this cooperation agreement poses a twofold problem: firstly, because the type of data is pseudoimmunized and non-anonymized data, which in my view is a real problem, because it is therefore possible to trace and cross-check data from several other banks concerning patients, such as diabetic patients and other types of patients. In this regard, I am making a reservation. Secondly, I have another reservation about the shelf life of certain types of data, which goes beyond what is necessary in relation to the management of the pandemic. This therefore concerns the data bank, unlike digital tracing. And despite the costume that some have wanted to trim him from the beginning, let us remember that digital tracing actually respects people's anonymity much more than manual tracing, especially since it does not refer to the databases used and whose use is not at all the same. Mr Minister, I would like to take advantage of your presence, since earlier on I was asking you questions about the importance of testing, tracing, the effectiveness of isolation, the speed of having an appointment, the results, the problem of testing centres, which are now saturated and for some, temporarily closed. There are weak links. Operational tracing is a weak link in the fight against VOCID. It's the same reasoning, it's the same comment we have to make on testing, and that's the stakes we need to be able to correct quickly. Having a theoretical ability is good, but being effective from an operational point of view is better. To my knowledge, more or less 800,000 people have already downloaded the Coronalert app. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that each of you has done so. It is up to each and every one of us to convince the citizens, to reassure them that the stake is great, not only for them but for their loved ones, the most vulnerable of them, and also for the people they work with, that they meet in the street, for the friends with whom they are going to have a drink. I hope that in this area we can move the schmilblick forward together and that we will soon be able to strengthen testing and tracing in operational terms, but also that the isolation of the carriers of the virus will become effective. This is an emergency. It has been discussed for weeks now, but these issues are vital.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u128	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion we have today on the bill approving the cooperation agreement is fundamental. We have had an important debate on the current epidemiological situation. It is important for two main reasons. Firstly, tracing or rather tracking contacts, as it should be called, is an integral part of the famous triptych, which serves as an indispensable tool against the spread of coronavirus, i.e. mask, testing and tracing. This is an overall strategy. However, manual tracing has shown its limitations. It therefore deserved to be complemented by a more optimal system, although it must be admitted that monitoring manual contacts remains the only solution for people in situations of great insecurity, as well as for the elderly, as I have said on several occasions in committee. Secondly, the monitoring of contacts required a legal basis both for legal certainty and for citizens' necessary adherence to this system. This legal basis comes after a long saga – it has been recalled by some of my colleagues; indeed, it was first referred to a decree of special powers, then a bill of law and, finally, a cooperation agreement. However, this legal basis is finally there, which, of course, we can only rejoice in the light of the second wave of the epidemic that we are facing today and our international commitments. Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights is very clear and requires the possibility of interference by a public authority in the exercise of the right to privacy to the existence of a law. Because our privacy is the very condition of our other freedoms, but also because the data that are processed in the context of tracing are sensitive. These are medical data related to our state of health. As I said, this legal basis comes late, since the Coronalert app is already at our disposal and has already been downloaded more than 800,000 times, which corresponds to a coverage rate of 10% among the phones on which the application can be downloaded. These are encouraging results, except that today the most difficult thing remains to be done, namely to convince the most indecisive, the most reluctant, the most sceptical. And to do that, we have our role to play. We must encourage our fellow citizens to download this application. But that will not be enough. Besides that, we must also meet all the safeguards contained in the resolution we voted on on 14 May. The very effectiveness of this follow-up of contacts is at stake. That is why my party, Défi, will play the game of federal loyalty by supporting this cooperation agreement. We have participated in the Kern of the Ten in a constructive way, in order to manage this health crisis as best we can. It is therefore consistent that today we are assisting in the legal finalization of this database and tracing. However, ladies and gentlemen, this support is in no way a blank cheque. This cooperation agreement will first of all have to be accompanied by real support for general practitioners and screening centres which are already under demand and which will be even more so as the population installs this application. We will also be extremely vigilant about how the monitoring of contacts will take place in practice, how the data will be managed by Sciensano, and how data will be effectively deleted. The system will therefore have to be evaluated throughout its use, so that in the event of a failure or breach of privacy, it will have to be revised.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u129	Mr President, it has already been said in detail here: this draft law approving the cooperation agreement concerns an essential pillar of our action against COOVID-19, the contact detection. This requires a performant data management and data processing, in a stable legal framework that indeed, as the last speaker stressed, offers maximum guarantees of efficiency and protection of privacy. In order to respond to the crisis situation, a temporary legal framework was created by the previous government, in particular by the power of attorney decisions Nos 18, 25 and 44. These decisions regulate both data management and data processing for manual and digital contact detection. However, as has already been mentioned, the deadlines for applying both decisions will expire on 15 October 2020. In view of the end of both decisions, the government is asking for urgent treatment here today. In order to ensure a smooth transition between the two regulations by that date, not only should the cooperation agreement and the various consent documents appear in the Official Journal, but also an executive cooperation agreement on the digital contact search application. If not, the manual and digital contact detection will end up in a legal vacuum on 15 October. The implementing cooperation agreement on the digital contact search application can only be concluded after all the parliaments concerned have given their consent to the cooperation agreement. It is essential that the continuity of the manual and digital contact detection, and thus a fortiori also its legal basis, be ensured. This cooperation agreement has been drawn up precisely to ensure this continuity and to respond to the comments of the Council of State. In addition, the observations of the Data Protection Authority are integrated as far as possible into this agreement. The agreement was approved by the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, the federal and state governments, and already by most Land Parliaments. The speakers also referred to the comments made by the Council of State. That's important. The Council of State considers in its opinion that, in addition to the present parties to the agreement, the French Community and the French Community Commission should also be involved as parties, to the extent that the arrangements contained in the cooperation agreement also include obligations for university and private hospitals. The French Community is competent to impose obligations on university hospitals in the French language region and in the bilingual region of Brussels-Capital, and the French Community Commission is competent to impose obligations on private hospitals in the bilingual region of Brussels-Capital. However, this cooperation agreement does not contain any obligations with regard to university and private hospitals. This statement is also documented in the note from the Court's Legal Service. Article 6 (3), second paragraph, and Article 2 (1) of the Cooperation Agreement to which the Council of State refers do indeed relate only to the competent persons, not to the hospitals as such. It is therefore the care providers who are competent to collect and communicate personal data from persons who have contracted an infectious disease to the competent authorities or to the persons whom they instruct to communicate the data. These persons are, of course, free to transfer the data through their institution, in particular the hospital or the lab, but the obligation applies only to the competent persons, not to this institution as such. Since the cooperation agreement does not impose any obligations on university and private hospitals, the French Community and the French Community Commission should not be party to the cooperation agreement. The comments are valuable and several other comments are also valuable. Finally, I would like to support Mrs Fonck's plea. We all need Coronalert on our smartphone. For those who wouldn't have done that, it's definitely the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u130	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u131	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1490/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1490/6) The title has been amended by the committee in "draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 25 August 2020 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Commission concerning the joint processing of data by Sciensano and the contact centres designated by the competent federated entities or by the competent agencies, by the hygiene inspection services and by mobile teams as part of a follow-up of contacts with (presumed) persons infected with the VOCID-19 coronavirus based on a database with Sciensano, concluded in Brussels on 25 August 2020 and withdrawing Royal Decree No 18 of 4 May 2020, Royal Decree No 25 of 28 May 2020 and Royal Decree No 44 of 26 June 2020 concerning a database with Sciensano in the context of the fight against the spread of the VOCID-19 coronavirus (1490/1-6)". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 25 August 2020 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Commission, on the joint data processing by Sciensano and the contact centres designated by the competent federated entities or by the competent agencies, health inspections and mobile teams in the framework of a contact investigation in persons infected with the coronavirus COVID-19 (probably) on the basis of a database at Sciensano, closed in Brussels on 25 August 2020 and repealing Royal Decree No. 18 of 4 May 2020, Royal Decree No. 25 of 28 May 2020 and Royal Decree No. 44 of 26 June 2020 on a data base at Sciensano in the context of the fight against the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19 (1490/1-6) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u133	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Christophe Lacroix, Sophie Thémont, Patrick Prévot, Ludivine Dedonder, Malik Ben Accour, Ahmed Laaouej, Philippe Tison, Melissa Depraetere .
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u134	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mr Freilich, whom I assume he refers to in writing. There's an affirmative nodding. The first speaker in the general debate is Mr Lacroix, whom I have confused with Mr. Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u135	Mr President, of course there is no problem. I do not have such a sensibility as to be confused with my colleague and friend Malik Ben Achour would cause me a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we have worked a great deal in committee on this bill. Parliament has worked for many years on the subject of artificial intelligence, on its remarkable progress, but also on the dangers underlying the use that can be made of it. Parliament, in the past, has been concerned and has taken initiatives on the major issue of consumer protection, in particular consumer protection linked to the introduction of new technologies into our economy. I would like to quote, without going back to Mathusalem, the work that was done under the previous legislature in the Senate, where I was sitting at the time, at the initiative of my group. This work resulted in an information report on the impact of the development of new technologies and artificial intelligence on the economy. And then, under the previous legislature, much of the work was done in the House by the Advisory Committee on Science and Technology. He had investigated the use of big data in the health sector. The resolution, adopted in March 2019, included a number of recommendations, including one specifically related to our work and the text on which we are going to vote earlier. The recommendation stated that care should be taken to ensure that patients are protected against any risk of abuse of their health data, including by insurers or for commercial purposes. This proposal is therefore entirely in line with this perspective and with this dimension. Colleagues, today, connected objects are present in an important way in our daily lives, whether it is home automation, mobile applications to calculate the number of steps or the number of calories we ingest per day, GPS geolocation on smartphone, etc. On a global scale, in 2020, we are identifying, stand by, nearly 20 billion connected objects. While the data collected can be an opportunity in the medical field and really interesting opportunities, they represent a specific risk in the insurance field, both in terms of privacy protection and in terms of access or the cost of insurance for our citizens. There is no shortage of examples. In Belgium, car insurance for young people under the age of 26 already grants a premium reduction if the driver embarks in his vehicle a connected object which analyses his driving, his speed, his speed, his braking, his accelerations at all times. Outside Canada, some insurance schemes incorporate the sports habits and eating behaviours of customers measured with a connected bracelet, good behaviour leading to premium reductions or benefits such as cinema spots or airline tickets. It can be said that, indeed, having a system that encourages good behaviour and that leads to a reduction in costs for the consumer is a good solution, but the perverse effect of this system is that one individualizes the price, the price, the access to insurance. The cost of health care does not take into account the non-equality of each person with respect to health. When you are more precarised and live in a dwelling that is at the limit of unsanitaryness, that there is moisture in this dwelling, that there are mushrooms, funguses that develop in this dwelling, your health suffers, your health suffers, yours, that of your children. You are a victim of social and economic insecurity. It would therefore not be normal for those citizens who are already victims of social or economic insecurity to be subject to an additional insurance cost or a refusal of insurance because they are believed to be at risk and the insurance companies decide not to insure such persons in terms of health care insurance. However, if there is something that is on the agenda today and that will be on the agenda for a long time, it is health concern. How do we ensure that our citizens remain healthy regardless of their socio-economic situation? In relation to these dangers underlying artificial intelligence, I would like to share with you two quotations to feed your thinking. The first one really does not come from a socialist or a communist. It came from Henri de Castries, CEO of AXA in 2014. I do not think it is part of the section of the Communal Socialist Union in my area. Henri de Castries says: "The Big Data makes it possible to understand the customer much better than he understands himself." It's still fundamental. And he says it without fear. A second quote comes from the boss of Insurtech Capital, Minh Tran, who said in 2018: "Insurers today have the ability to make personalized insurance, thanks in particular to the data of the user that can be recovered through connected objects. And then, it's more interesting to ensure healthy people." CQFD. So you see how the insurance industry wants, through connected objects, to ensure the "good" risks, i.e. to ensure that people who are least likely to become ill or who, in any case, are least likely to be hospitalized because they benefit from a health-care capital which is of interest to the insurance company. In the course of the debates that we have had in committee, the majority of colleagues have, and I will say this again, rejected this model of insurance where personal data from connected objects are collected on the internet and allow the insurer to exclude "bad" risks - and we know who they are: the most disadvantaged people - or else to charge more for those than an algorithm (artificial intelligence), regardless of any medical examination, will have considered as being part of the "bad" risks. A principle seems fundamental to us Socialists - but this must be the case for other Members - because we believe that solidarity between insured persons must remain a central part of the functioning of insurance. That is why this bill provides for two measures in the field of insurance (life and health). First, consumers must be given the right to refuse to acquire or use a connected object under their insurance contract without the risk that the company will remove it or exclude it. Secondly, the purpose of this bill is to prohibit the insurer from charging different rates, which are referred to as segmentations, depending on whether or not the consumer agrees to use a connected object or on the basis of data from the said objects. The aim of this bill is, therefore, to better protect the consumer and to avoid certain abuses related to the use of connected objects in the field of insurance (life and health). I really thank all the colleagues in the Committee on the Economy for their constructive cooperation on this issue. Madam President, thank you for having access to the perch for a few moments, which will allow me to greet you in a very nice way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, we are all in a constantly changing world. New technologies, digital advances have many advantages and, it is true, allow a real improvement in our quality of life. Data backup, ease of access to commercial services, mobility at work, direct exchange with consumers, there are many advantages. But in the area of health, while new technologies are also a real opportunity to revolutionize medicine, it is not without perverse effects on consumer protection and respect for the right to privacy. The new applications that are being developed allow users to record data related to their lifestyle or health status, and this is a matter of concern. Some insurers require access to this private data, which raises many questions about the security and confidentiality of this data. There has even been some discrimination between their healthy clients and those in poorer health. A legislative framework was therefore essential to prevent such drifts. The objective is simple: to protect personal data and to prohibit the use of this information by insurance companies. For my group, it is essential to encourage technological innovation, of course, but not to the detriment of consumers. The protection of their personal data is a priority. That is why we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u137	Madam President, I wanted to speak to support a bill that, in our view, provides an indispensable framework for current technological developments. We recognize that these developments want to make some progress, such as the fact that connected objects can improve our way of life. But we want these advances to be directed to the service of the people, just at their service. Because we all know that these new technologies currently represent, and even more so in the future, an extremely successful business. Multinationals, with their unlimited choice of profits, obviously do not fail to claim their share of the cake. Unsurprisingly, the insurance sector is not left behind. He understood that the use of personal data from connected objects increases their margin, as if it was not already comfortable enough by the way. With the PTB, we refuse this vultures behavior. We refuse to allow the marketing of our personal data to serve to increase the profits of certain companies, unscrupulous of ethical values. The practices of a few companies abroad already bear witness to this trend. Thus, the price of certain life and health insurances are conditioned to the results of the connected object, which measures the good sports and food behaviour of the person. This means that it is again vulnerable audiences who will pay the high price. For example, because a person does not know how to afford a healthy diet, he or she will pay more for his or her insurance premiums. It's a double penalty for these people. So, yes, this kind of practice that comes all right from the United States must be banned in Belgium! This is not our model of society! Insurers must know! Here, we mutualize risks, we don't individualize them. This is the foundation of our social protection system. Insurers will not derogate from this. Secondly, there is the question of the treatment of our private information, which is raised by this bill. At the time of Big Data and the monopoly of some IT giants, such as Google, citizens are dispossessed of their own personal data. So forbidding them to use some of our data from connected objects is sending a strong message to these multinationals. They must understand that we don't do anything. For all these reasons, the PTB will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u138	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u139	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (263/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (263/10) The title has been amended by the committee in "proposal for a law amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance with a view to establishing in the field of health insurance and individual life insurance a restriction on the processing of personal data concerning the lifestyle or health of connected objects". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance in order to impose restrictions on the processing of life-style or health personal data collected by devices connected to the Internet'. The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u141	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1270: Sophie Thémont, Marc Goblet, Nahima Lanjri, Anja Vanrobaeys, Marie-Colline Leroy, Barbara Creemers, Florence Reuter, Tania De Jonge. - 1527: Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u142	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Willaert, but he is not here. It therefore refers to the written report. I give the floor to Mr Anseeeuw as the first speaker in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u143	Colleagues, the corona crisis has been testing the whole of society for months. Also for working parents it is not always easy when the daycare, class or school closes because of corona from one day to the next. At that time, especially in the case of younger children, a change of care must be provided quickly, but this is not always easy. Also for many employers, it has been an important task since mid-March to ensure the organisation of their business, often SMEs. Problems with the organisation of work inevitably have an impact on turnover and, in the short term, a harmful effect on employment. It must therefore be clear that the interests of the employer and the employee in these are the same. Good cooperation is therefore of the utmost importance. However, this legislative proposal runs counter to this principle. It ensures that workers are entitled to temporary unemployment as soon as their minor child is unable to attend the classroom, daycare or school because the daycare, classroom or school has to close because of corona. Children with disabilities do not have the age limit of 18 years. The employee has that right as long as the child cannot go back to class, child care or school. The fact that temporary unemployment is now becoming a right for the employee is without precedent. Temporary unemployment is normally granted by the employer. In this way, work organisation in the company can also be taken into account. This bill allows an employee to stay away from the work without consultation and the problem of receiving care is shifted to the employer. That's not a good thing either. Consultation in this is very important, because the interests of the employer are also the interests of the employee. Even though I know that some people see a contradiction in this, it is a false contradiction to me. In addition, the legislative proposal implies that a possible reception problem can only be solved by allowing parents to stay at home and not work throughout the period of care. However, reality is different. Today, such problems are often solved by, for example, agreeing alternative timetables or facilitating homework. It gets worse. Parents who have no problems with receiving care can also stay away from work without any problems with this bill. If a parent of a 16-year-old child gives the appropriate certificate to the employer, the worker is also entitled to temporary unemployment. That's not a good thing. The day before yesterday in the committee, all parties except the N-VA approved the bill. In the course of the discussion in committee, when I cited the example of the sixteen-year-old who is perfectly capable of taking care of himself, several Members argued that such "abuse" would be the exception rather than the rule. I myself never said the word "abuse." When this bill is finally adopted, what you call "abuse" is enshrined in the law as a right. It is remarkable that you will knowingly and willingly embed what you call abuse as a right in the law. This law also organises the inactivity where it can be avoided perfectly, especially if the benefit paid to those affected by such unemployment is significantly higher than the benefit paid for, for example, thematic leave, such as parental leave, even without taking into account additional compensation from the regions. It is therefore all the more strange that the current purple-green government, led by the Liberals, approves much too broad a measure, although it has the ambition to increase the rate of effectiveness to 80%. What's completely out of control is that when that same perfectly healthy sixteen-year-old teenager isn't allowed to go to school, not only mom but also daddy can stay home with Mom. Worse still, even on weekends, when children do not go to school anyway, this temporary unemployment is a right for those parents, which is incomprehensible. This brings us to the essence of the problem. After all, when a measure is taken, it must always be intended to meet a real need. Otherwise, social security is unnecessarily costly, employers, including a large number of small businesses, are unnecessarily pushed into the misery and, in the long run, jobs are put at risk, which puts the worker in question in trouble. What, after all, is the need to make a living here? That is not necessarily the care of the child itself, but the organisation of that care. For this, not every parent should stay at home for the entire period of closure. This law does not even need to prove the need for the interruption of work. Thus, more workers will receive unemployment benefits than necessary, many more employers will be under pressure from their work organisation and many more jobs will be called into question than necessary. Colleagues, it is particularly regrettable that you want to open up a right to a group of people, regardless of whether they need that right or not. We have had a very interesting discussion in committee. Mrs. Ludivine Dedonder of the PS indicated, when it was about abuse, that there was no point focusing on abuse. I must confess that those words did not surprise me very much, but they nevertheless remain striking. Mr Reuter insisted that the risk of abuse with false doctor's notes was many times greater. Mr. Leroy... [[Rumur on the benches]] I notice some nervousness among the colleagues of the PS. Mr Laaouej, you may find it annoying that Mr Dedonder, a member of your group, said in committee that there is no point in focusing on abuse. We believe that attention should be paid to this, apparently not to you. I understand that it bothers you, but the facts have their right. Mr Leroy admitted that abuse might occur. After that, they all anchored together what they themselves called abuse as a right in the law. We have to do it. [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u144	Mr Anseuw, Mr Leroy wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u145	Mr Anseeuw, I hope that this is not a problem of linguistic understanding. About a minute and a half ago, you described Mrs. Dedonder's words as "nothing about abuse." A minute and thirty later, you say that I mentioned abuses with you, while you were not talking about that. Already during the debates, you used this exercise around the word abuse. You tried to reverse the arguments by saying that we were talking about abuse. We never spoke of abuse! What we did in committee, remember, is simply to clarify what you were saying by systematically referring to a catastrophic situation. All of a sudden, parents by tens and hundreds, would use this leave, this unemployment of force majeure, while they would not need it. All we have said is that I would interpret it as an abuse, that is to say, to use a right that we do not need. I told you about trust and I'll repeat it later. I told you: it's not about abuse, it's about trusting and offering parents an alternative to quarantine. You can't both say that Ludivine Dedonder is talking about abuse, that I'm talking about non-abuse, and vice versa. All this becomes incomprehensible to people who listen. I'd like you to clarify this element of language, as a minimum, if possible, Mr. Anseew.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u146	Mr Leroy, you are now saying that you would not have spoken of abuse. Actually, I find that special. You should have made that point earlier, at the time when the report was discussed, even though reference was made to the written report. In that report, however, your admission that there might be abuse has been noted. You are now shaking your head in denial, but it is literally so in the report. You should not make that comment against me, you should make that comment against the rapporteur. By the way, you said the same thing. The committee meeting was public. The images can be re-examined. I simply note that Mr Dedonder, Mr Reuter and you too have made a comment about abuse, which I have never said. It is undoubtedly annoying that I make it clear here that what you described as abuse in committee will soon be enshrined in a law, but that is the choice you make. We will not make that choice. Mr De Jonge van Open Vld also stressed that the combination of greatly increased benefits and the fact that the employer's agreement is not required is risky. She is right in that. More importantly, this could threaten the economic recovery. The fact that parents, without the employer's agreement, can suspend full-time work until the end of the year with a benefit equal to 70% of their income, goes too far for the speaker, after which Mr De Jonge has approved the whole scheme. I suggest, Mrs De Jonge, that you visit some SMEs in the coming weeks. You must have made it. Of course we understand the N-VA for parents who have more time for care through corona...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u147	Mr Anseuw, I do not know on which committee I would have said that. I merely said in committee that we are not in favour of extending parental leave, but that we are in favour of introducing temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure as an alternative. That's what's on the table here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u148	I quote literally from the report, which nobody has made a comment about. When you review the images of your speech, you will find that the report is in line with what you said in committee. You may have changed your mind by now, and that wouldn't be the first time. However, what you said in committee has been said. It is also in the report. It is very strange that everyone makes a problem with a report when it was raised and nobody made a comment. Mrs. De Jonge, I advise you to visit some SMEs, they will welcome you with open arms, or with eggs and tomatoes, who knows. We naturally understand parents who need more time to care for their children by corona, especially when it comes to children with disabilities. However, the present scheme does not start from a real need. With a scheme that does not start from a real need, a scheme that makes inactivity unnecessarily attractive, a scheme that assumes that parents leave home from work to solve a reception problem, is the only solution, a scheme that would unnecessarily jeopardise the continuity of our businesses, including a large number of SMEs, which would threaten unnecessarily jobs, which would also create unnecessary costs for social security, we cannot agree. When discussing the legislative proposal, we have consistently argued for a more precise measure, which was much more targeted, and at least the need for the interruption of work must be demonstrated and objectified in one way or another. But there was no answer to our arguments. That is why we will vote against it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u149	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall a few points before I speak about this legislation. Around March 15, 2020, parents find themselves in a very complicated situation. Not only do they not know how they are going to continue working, whether they are independent, on the front line, or in a company where they feel a form of unemployment, they have very few answers, but in addition they are in a situation where their children will no longer be able to go to school. Except possibly with a childcare system. At that time, however, they were asked to limit the presence in day care facilities to ensure that confinement was as effective as possible. For the past seven months, these parents have been working to comply with the demands, the rules, the instructions so that everyone can get out of the current situation as quickly as possible. Anxiety, anxiety, anxiety, fatigue, etc. Summer's going on. The situation is always complicated. On 1 September, we learn that there will also be equally legitimate arrangements in place. I can't believe it. The aim is to quarantine certain groups, certain classes. It will not take ten days before the first class is quarantined. Since then, hundreds of children have been quarantined and parents have had to find solutions. The important thing is to remember the solutions that had already been found before: leave, annual leave, leave without pay, etc. There, again, they are asked to take a leave of absence, one day after another. Yesterday, the Moustier municipal school decided around 5 p.m. to close today. I think the mayor started calling the parents around 9 p.m. to warn them that this morning, the kids couldn't go to school. This situation is absolutely unbearable. In addition, it was known that on September 30, the leave called 'corona parental leave' was ending. He did not explicitly respond to this situation, but there was no longer even that option. There was therefore a need to find an urgent solution, a solution that would respond to new difficulties and sudden quarantines. We tried the government way, but it was complicated, it was a dead end. Remember the situation that prevailed a fortnight ago. We have therefore decided to go through the parliamentary channel, whose effectiveness I recognise. It is true that we have worked urgently, but seriously. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the services that wrote the reports very quickly and efficiently to allow us to debate this bill in plenary today. We have chosen to work on the basis of unemployment for force majeure. This may not be the ideal situation. Maybe it's not the best answer. Maybe we could have worked on a leave of absence. But that was the way to work the fastest, most efficient way, with a 70% allowance. So it seemed to us that this was the most interesting route. Other options were mentioned. We could have asked the grandparents to take over. But this solution soon proved impossible. We could have called on sick guards, but we weren't going to entrust potentially ill children to them. We could have asked family members, but that was not possible either, because we all want to get out of this crisis. So there was no solution. A child who is quarantined must be kept within the nearest bubble. There are no other possibilities. In doing so, some people cannot do anything other than use their employer for force majeure. And that's where he comes in. It is true that this can be complicated for a company, but as the Minister of Health has pointed out, this crisis is unfair. And the only way to overcome this crisis is, no doubt, solidarity. Everyone has to make a contribution. It is also true that we will sometimes give a little more, perhaps a little too much. But the ecologists we are preferring to give a little more than too little, as tried to do – as I remember correctly – the N-VA with the energy premium in Flanders for people who are temporarily unemployed, to which everyone was finally entitled. Here too it can be said that this is an extended aid. And why not, actually? Why not say that people, after seven months of an unprecedented crisis, in anguish, whether they are employers or employees, are able to measure their need for help, support, compensation or appeal, in a situation like this, which is a matter of force majeure? Here's another reason. What do we prefer? Workers who will still go to get their last ounce of energy, then take the leave without pay because there is no other option, then return to exhausted work, at the end of nerves, with increased financial difficulties? I fear him, and I want to protect these parents from a burn-out. This is not good for the worker, nor for his recognition, nor for his well-being, nor for the employer, nor for society. All of these things have made us say that it is better today to offer an option that, frankly, is not the most incredible boon in the world either! We are talking about an unemployment benefit of force majeure for the duration of about 40 years. Today the duration of quarantine is set at seven days for schools. That means five days since there is a weekend. Nor is it the most transcendental reform of the universe. I even have to admit it myself. It's just a very punctual help. We have discussed a great deal in committee and I quite frankly understand this situation. Is it fair and fair? Yes, it is fair from the moment when it is solidarity and it aims to reduce catastrophic situations financially, economically, for mental health, and for children. We do not have to go much further to justify this bill. That is why our Ecolo-Groen Group will support and vote on this law today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, since 30 September, the parental leave has ended. Parents are concerned that the figures for the spread of coronavirus are not good, that measures may be taken to protect our health and that of the most vulnerable, and that they know that they do not have a real solution to the possible closure of their child's school, nursery or reception centre. All of us were arrested by parents and by the League of Families, who asked us to act. We heard them. Together, we have taken on our responsibilities, leading to this bill. With retroactive effect from 1 October, this text will allow parents facing the closure of their child's school, nursery or institution to be absent from work to stay with them. To benefit from this right, they simply need to provide their employer with a certificate of closure. In addition, this right will be properly compensated, since parents will be entitled to an allowance covering more than 70 per cent of their earnings. It is for us, in the Socialist Party, a real social advance. We look forward to being able to confirm the measure by a vote today in plenary. It has also been confirmed that self-employed persons will be entitled to the right of access. On the part of government officials, contractual agents will be able to benefit from this right; in addition, we will ensure that a solution is found soon for the benefit of statutory agents. Colleagues, thank you for your support for this bill. I would like to join Mrs Leroy in thanking the services for their efficiency in putting this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u151	Mr President, in order to maintain the balance between work and family in times of corona, corona parental leave was created. Corona parental leave was extended several times, but ended on 30 September last. In the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Dedonder, now Minister, initially put forward a proposal to extend corona parental leave until the end of this year, but, as is often the case in the Committee on Social Affairs, the initial proposal was accepted. A working meeting was even held with all parties, except the Flemish Interest, to unravel the bill again. In the end, what is before us has nothing to do with corona parental leave, but provides for the worker's right to take temporary unemployment, provided that a quarantine certificate is submitted, in the event of the closure of a school, reception or reception for persons with disabilities, so that one can receive his or her own child. In the middle of June, I already pointed out to Minister Muylle that parents of children with disabilities over 12 years of age, who did not reach the necessary number of points in the previous scheme, but unfortunately this scheme could no longer be corrected or adapted in the previous Corona parental leave. The extension to all children who are less than 18 years old, but especially all children who are less than 18 years old, without distinction, is now in line with my earlier sighs and is therefore a good thing. Many parents of children who fell off the boat have not been able to take corona parental leave during the great holiday, which was not only financially but also physically and psychologically difficult for them. Our group will therefore vote for this proposal without delay, but I would like to express some reservations. The demand for this form of temporary unemployment is based on the worker. This sets a precedent, since the use of temporary unemployment has always been at the employer's initiative. Here, therefore, a special effort is again requested from the employer. The financial impact of this measure has apparently not yet been studied and the government has no idea what it will eventually be, because the virus is not yet at the end of its Latin. Once again, we support this bill in the interests of parents who, unfortunately, cannot go to grandparents or third parties for the sake of the risk group to which they belong, and we certainly also support it in the interests of the parents of all disabled children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although there is no longer a complete lockdown, Corona continues to ruin our lives. Any one of us can face it at any time. Parents can, for example, get a call from the school at night or from the nursery saying that their child is no longer welcome the next day, because the nursery, a class or even the entire school must be closed down preventively because of cases of corona infections. At that time, the parent is in the hair, especially when there are no grandparents to fall back on, neither friends, family or neighbors who can take care of the child and when all holiday days are used up. However, that parent is expected to be back at work the next day. Many parents are confronted with this reality, now even more than at first. The bill now before us is trying to solve it, and it won't be a day too soon. A lot of parents are in their hands when they are confronted with such a situation. What's in store now is quarantine leave. It is true that at the beginning there was an extension of corona parental leave, but very soon we saw that this was not a solution. The measure must be able to be invoked quickly. The parents concerned do not need a structural measure, while corona parental leave was intended, for example, to take up half-time or one day a week for a long period of time. What's in store now is something completely different. Parents are told in a telephone message that their child can't go to school or crèche the next day. Preventive quarantine starts almost immediately and the period now covers a week. To solve this, we have chosen the path of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure. I am therefore pleased that I was able to amend the legislative proposal in that direction until we had found a solution. What exactly the solution is doesn't matter, because it'll be the parents' worst thing about how we all handle it here, as long as they have a solution for their child. We are doing this now: we are ensuring that parents who are confronted with such a communication and who do not have a reception can apply for quarantine leave. I really believe that parents who have another solution will not apply for quarantine leave, but if they do not have a solution, they have the right to apply to their employer, who will forward the application to the RVA. This applies, of course, to all minors. Moreover, I have always argued that parental leave should be increased to the age of 18. Mrs Samyn, for children with disabilities, the age has even been raised to 21 years. I think that's only logical. If the child cannot go to an institution and can no longer receive care or care at home, then the amendment I have tabled now also provides a solution for them. It is a good solution because it is flexible and can be requested without too much fuss. Contrary to normal parental leave, this is rapid and, in addition, a slightly higher remuneration is paid, i.e. 70% of the salary plus the daily allowance of EUR 5.63 and possibly an additional amount that the employer can adjust. Of course, there is still some loss of pay. We do not want parents who are actually obliged to take leave to sanction too much. That is why we are working through the temporary unemployment system for reasons of force majeure. So these people don't lose too much income. I am confident that employers and employees will always work together to find the best solutions if they are suddenly faced with a temporary closure of the school or nursery. This quarantine leave can then provide a solution. I therefore believe in good cooperation between employees or contractual officials and their employers. After all, no one likes to abandon their employer suddenly and leave the work alone, but if there is no other way, then this system can offer a solution. By the way, this is an emergency solution for a very short period of time. I am very pleased that we have been able to work together on this emergency solution and I would like to thank everyone who has made this bill, which I was allowed to sign, possible. I would also like to thank Minister Muylle's cabinet for its technical assistance in drafting a number of amendments. It was important to make all this legal and substantively complete. Now we have a good bill that we will be happy to approve later. Mr Anseeeuw, you were waiting for it: everyone in the committee approved this proposal, including members of the opposition, of Flemish Interest and of the PVDA-PTB, not only the majority. The only group that did not approve the bill and opposed it was your group. I therefore propose, Mr Anseuw, that you tell your constituents that you seem to think that the problem of caring for parents is not a real problem and that we should not do anything about it. You have voted against this bill, you have already announced that you will vote against it later, so I hope that you or your family or your electorate will never need it and will not have to apply for it. You do not believe in it, so you should not use it. So tell your constituents that you do not agree that we are looking for a solution to their reception problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u153	Mrs Lanjri, you obviously did not listen very carefully to what I said earlier. We do, of course, have an eye for the need to respond, namely the organisation of the reception problem, but the proposal before us reduces the possible solutions. Even if there are two parents in the family, they can both stay at home, both during the week and at the weekend, when the child otherwise cannot go to school. This is particularly illogical, especially because it could jeopardise the continuity of a number of companies, especially SMEs, not least in Flanders. Moreover, we do not think it is serious to say that 16-year-olds, who can safely take care of themselves during the day, should have one or two parents next to them. You have said again today that you trust that all these workers will not make improper use of it, and I hope that most will not, but there will undoubtedly be those who will find it convenient or welcome, and it cannot be that a right is opened up to a group of people, regardless of whether that group needs that right. That is not serious and we are opposed to it. You also create a right of temporary unemployment, which is always granted, while otherwise there is always consultation between the employee and the employer. You said that you rely on the good cooperation between them, but in fact you do not, because you make it a right and so you actually put in the law that that consultation is unnecessary. Well, for us that is much needed and anything but unnecessary. These are the reasons why we do not want to approve this proposal. We have said that we have an ear and an eye for the need to organise childcare, but not all of these parents must, by definition, stay at home throughout the period of closure. This bill does not even require proof of the need for a break in work, so this is not good legislation. That is why we do not approve this proposal, not because we do not have an ear and an eye for the needs of certain parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u154	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u155	I respect the order of the groups. You have to understand that. I won't allow ping-ponging. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Reuter, and then I shall go further down the list. Mrs Lanjri, you will see if you wish to intervene in the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u156	Mr President, I recognize you: the will to ensure that our rights are respected! That's very good. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed essential that all children should be able to return to school in September. I have repeated this in this House. We knew it wouldn't be easy. We knew there were risks. The number of students who have been quarantined since the school year, the number of closed classes, as well as crèches and reception facilities for disabled children, has been reduced. There was therefore a need for an emergency solution for working parents who had no solution at all to care for their child. This is true, if not, the risk of medical certificates existed not by abuse but simply because these parents had no other choice. And if that risk were real, it was ultimately up to the companies to pay the price. Let's be serious, Mr. Anseew! Do you really think that a worker will agree to lose 30% of his salary to hold the hand of his 16-year-old teenager? I'm a big teen mom. I don't think they need me to hold their hands. It was therefore necessary to find a solution that was just for both businesses, SMEs, TPEs and employees and/or self-employed. The Corona leave which was created during confinement and which ended on 30 September 2020 no longer met this emergency and the current situation of resumption of school activity with strict quarantine procedures. There was therefore a need for a balanced alternative that would not further undermine the functioning and organisation of enterprises, adding a new leave of absence to the many possibilities that already existed. But an alternative was needed that would allow parents to turn around and organize in an emergency, without exposing grandparents to contamination of course. It should be remembered that not everyone has the opportunity to telework. Some functions do not allow this and it is not always possible to work at home with young children. It was therefore necessary to find a solution, temporary of course, linked to the constant development of the situation. This "quarantine leave" therefore allows this balance. It allows temporary unemployment for force majeure to be used on the basis of a specific quarantine certificate. And we called him back, 40 years ago, now it's seven days. So for us liberals, it is a good balanced solution, because the virus continues to spread. Caution is more current than ever, and we cannot take any risks. Again, to those who believe that this is a privilege that some workers may abuse, I register falsely. It is only a matter of providing a practical solution for families, a flexible solution, I repeat, a temporary solution for workers who have no other choice without having to penalize companies. It is therefore clear that my group will support this proposal. I thank all colleagues for the hard work they have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u157	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, finally, we are here to vote on this bill, which was absolutely necessary to respond to a great urgency on the ground. I do not know where the people who have fought this bill from the beginning live, but in any case, here, it also responds and above all, to what the field associations have explained to us. I will mainly name the League of Families, which today welcomes the vote on this proposal. Perhaps I will quote the coordinator of the League of Families: "We had pleaded for a leave of absence which the parents could take overnight as soon as the closure of the nursery or school was announced, without asking for the agreement of their employer, and we were heard. That's a great relief. We are more reserved in terms of compensation. This leave will be paid up to 70 per cent of the salary. This is certainly better than the previous "corona" parental leave, but a 30% loss of wages remains a problem for some parents. However, this is a serious solution that will meet expectations." It is in response to this reality that we have conducted debates in committee. Moreover, it was not very logical that it should be discussed in committee because the government in day-to-day affairs decided that, when there were cases of VOCID-19 in schools, they had to close. Well, we think it's right. Unfortunately, this government in day-to-day affairs has not gone to the end of its thinking. Indeed, this government should have set up a royal decree to extend the corona leave directly, but also to make a proposal to increase the remuneration required for all parents and especially for women. In fact, we must not fool ourselves, it is mostly women who stay at home when their children cannot go to school. For us, this is really a big step forward in the fight for women's equality in the workplace. So we're looking forward to it. It was also important that it be a right. Of course, we do not question the fact that some employers are willing and willing to talk to the worker so that he can be on leave overnight, but feedback indicates that "our employer is not our friend". We're not gonna talk to his employer quietly. We see around these debates that there are divergent interests between employers and workers. In this period of corona, you obviously have to choose your camp. We have chosen ours and I register falsely in front of everyone who shouts that this is going to be a disaster for employers. Until proven otherwise, since the beginning of this pandemic, social security has meant that workers have been able to hold their heads out of the water a little bit. Social security was not founded by employers but by workers. That's what we're looking forward to. It is the struggle of the workers that has made it possible to obtain this social security. We want to stress positively the fact that we have gone beyond the age of 18 for children with disabilities. It is regrettable, however, that the two amendments that we tabled were not supported by all the parties that supported this project. The first amendment concerned remuneration. As has already been said, losing 30% of his salary is really not nothing. I am thinking in particular of women who have part-time or low wages. For them, 30% is huge. The second amendment dealt with something that existed in the old parental leave system: protection against dismissal. There, we regret that in the new system, we have not continued in this direction. Despite all this, we are in favour of this law that we are going to vote on today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the corona crisis has had an important impact on education, but also on other sectors. During the lockdown, schools were closed and most children stayed at home with parents who were either temporarily unemployed or at home working. Often hilarious situations for families where the combination of work and home and children is very difficult. In particular, the combination of homework and care for young children, but also the support of children in distance learning, was far from obvious. Many parents have had to work extra hours in the morning or late at night to make up for the work they could not do during the day or much less. However, the former government quickly switched over. Corona parental leave was introduced on 1 May. It was originally foreseen only for the months of May and June, and was subsequently extended until 30 September 2020. It was extra parental leave, on top of the four-month classic parental leave credit that every parent is entitled to anyway. It was not a right, in other words the employer had to agree. That is why we have said that extending parental leave was a risk, because it is not necessarily linked to quarantine. Corona parental leave was a success: at its peak in June, just under 69,000 people took corona parental leave. Almost 70% of them included it in a fifth scheme. This bill, in its original form, was intended to extend corona parental leave. I told you we weren't in favour of that. In the meantime, of course, the schools have reopened, but some children cannot go to school temporarily because of a quarantine measure. For these parents there is therefore an effective temporary problem, which also existed during the lockdown. However, according to our group, the extension of parental leave is not a good idea. After all, leave was intended for the many parents who had to combine homework with care for young children for whom they had no care during the lockdown. However, the lockdown is already over. There is therefore no need to extend a general measure to solve a problem which only arises in very specific cases. Today, some classes and extension centres and crèches have to be quarantined after it has been found that a teacher, a tutor or a pupil has become infected with the COVID-19 virus. The children must stay at home and in that case parents are de facto obliged to stay at home to take care of the child or to ensure that there is care, even for 16-year-olds. After all, not every sixteen-year-old is equal. Some children have the maturity to stay home alone, but some do not have that maturity. It is therefore much more logical to work out a solution to this situation, which is in fact a situation of force majeure, through temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure. We had already proposed this in committee. To this end, amendments have already been tabled which have led to this proposal. I would like to thank those Members who worked it out. We are very pleased that our suggestion has been followed. On the basis of a specific certificate to be delivered by the school, crèche or centre for the care of children with disabilities, this law will place the parents concerned in temporary unemployment. The certificate must clearly indicate the period during which the child cannot go to the school, nursery or centre. Since this is a situation of force majeure, we must also deal with the situation as such. That is why we give workers the right to use it on the basis of the certificate. This is different from the corona parental leave for which the employer's consent was required. However, this is once again a very specific situation. We assume that employers and employees will also consult constructively on this issue. After all, have we ever considered that, if a child is infected and applies for parental quarantine leave or temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure, the manager concerned may not take the risk of having the worker concerned working in the undertaking? Has that ever stopped? The workers concerned often have leave days or catch-up periods and it may be appropriate to make use of them first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u159	Mrs De Jonge, you have just explained the certificate that an employee must use to exercise that right. Do you think it is normal that in a family with two working parents both parents can stay at home during the child's entire period of care? You welcome the fact that this is a right. This also gives a group that does not need it the right to do so. The consultation between employers and employees to examine possible alternatives such as homework or other timetables is apparently not so important. Do you think it's normal for both working parents in a family, for that one child who can't go to school, to stay at home at the same time? Do you think that's normal? Do you think that's justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u160	Mrs Lanjri says that Mr Anseuw was allowed to interrupt now, which she was not allowed to do just now. I now give Mrs Lanjri the opportunity to make her point to Mr Anseuw. Let the debate go.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u161	Mr Anseuw, I would like to say that we should not repeat the debate we have had in committee. A number of questions have already been answered in committee, but you do not seem to have any interest in them. You said 18 years, right? For one 16- or 17-year-olds it is possible, for the other with behavioural problems or learning problems. We do not know that, but these parents themselves know when to apply for leave. The RVA is now working out everything and drawing up the application forms. I really don't think parents will take this leave if they don't have to. After all, there is a loss of income. One will certainly not record that with two if it is not necessary. You don't seem to have any faith in the people. You always assume the worst in people. You think everyone's gonna apply for this now, that everyone's gonna take advantage of this. Those are your words. You already assume that there is no consultation. I have always said in committee that this is a right because it has to be done quickly. If one has to go into quarantine for a week, one must have a solution immediately. There is nothing about ordinary parental leave. It's gotta be quick. It's the employee who's applying for it. There will also be dialogue. But it's a right. If someone does not have an effective alternative solution, that person will be able to apply for temporary unemployment. But, I'm sure no one will risk their job if they don't have to. That is the difference, Mr Anseuw, between you and me. Apparently, you don't think there should be a solution to this problem. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u162	Luckily, there are differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u163	You know, Mr Lanjri, there are far more differences between us than the one you mention. I do not think you are well placed to say how other Members of Parliament should be holding the debate here. We have a chairman for this, and he is doing an excellent job. The question I have just asked Mr De Jonge, whether she thinks it is logical that both working parents can stay home at the same time for one child who cannot go to school, has not even been addressed in committee. I have indeed asked a lot of questions, but this question has not even been addressed. So what you're saying is wrong. I am now giving Mrs De Jonge the opportunity to answer my question as to whether she thinks it is logical that this legislation allows two working parents from the same family to stay home at the same time for one child who cannot go to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u164	We have had this exchange of views. Mrs. De Jonge, may I ask you to proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u165	Mr President, I will answer the question. Mr Anseuw, I agree with what Mrs Lanjri says. It is very often about the trust between employees and employers. I assume that a family is duty-bound and that only one parent applies for temporary unemployment because of force majeure for the care of a child. There is always a dialogue between employee and employer. Always. Because the employee must contact the employer to indicate that he is in an emergency. 'Cause that's what it's about. Suddenly one gets the message from the nursery, or from the care center for people with disabilities, or from the school, that the child is being quarantined because the whole class has to be quarantined. I assume that when parents find themselves in such a situation, they deal with it with common sense and that one of the two parents will apply for temporary unemployment. That's what I'm assuming. I wonder what the loyalty to the employer is to two parents who would apply for it at the same time. Moreover, it is seven days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure. If the consultation with the employer takes place, another proposal can be made. The employer may then propose to his employee to take up catch-up or remaining leave days. In the end, this temporary unemployment still represents a loss of wages for that worker. That is something we must also bear in mind. Mr President, Mr Anseuw wishes to interrupt me, or may I finish my remarks? With all due respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u166	I will not comment on it, because I intend to conclude this meeting without any incident with anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u167	Several colleagues, and also you, Mrs De Jonge, are talking about trust versus mistrust. It's not like I'm suspicious of every employee. I note that you, and others, have a great deal of faith in all employees. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. I simply wonder why such an attestation is still needed if everyone is to deal with it so wisely. Of course, it's one or the other. For the sake of clarity, my question was also more rhetorical in nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u168	That's what I understood. Mrs De Jonge, you may answer rhetorical questions, but you may also continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u169	I will continue my speech, because I feel that this is a deaf debate. Employers can, of course, allow family leave or seek other solutions, in consultation with the employee. In fact, in the case of temporary unemployment, there is usually a loss of income. It will therefore be more advantageous for the employee to find another solution for those few days. This draft law provides for a safety net for parents who should be able to provide for the care of children at home in the short term. It is therefore not an extension of corona parental leave, but a specific solution within the framework of temporary unemployment, as we proposed in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. We will therefore be delighted to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u170	Mrs Vanrobaeys, it has taken a while, but now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u171	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in mid-September I received a phone call from a friend who said that she was called by the school at 3.30 p.m. to pick up her son immediately. From the day after, the school closed for a week, possibly even fourteen days. That girlfriend asked me what to do and how to fix it. Judging by the newspaper articles, she's certainly not the only one who's had that going on ever since. Here, there's a nursery or a shelter, there's a school. Each time, the parents concerned face the problem of having to take care of their children at home. In the middle of September, when we debated this in committee, the alternatives were pointed out, such as annual holidays. However, some parents have already taken their holidays. Unpaid leave is also an option, but a lot of income losses have already been made. Not everyone can work at home. Not everyone has alternative timetables. Parental leave, which ends at the end of September, is not an adequate solution for parents who need early leave from one day to receive their child. For this reason, I initially tabled an amendment to propose a kind of leave equivalent to hospitalization leave for parents whose children are in preventive quarantine. The latter is a medical leave that can be taken very quickly and flexibly by parents in the event of hospitalization. That gave me inspiration to also work out a solution for rapidly entering quarantine measures. Mrs Lanjri said just now that the parents concerned are in need and need a solution. From the beginning I showed willingness to consult, so that we found a majority to work something out, so that parents no longer stand with their hands in their hair because they don't know what to do with their children the next day. It has become a solution through temporary unemployment. I am extremely pleased that we have worked out a solution across party boundaries for parents with children who have to undergo preventive quarantine. I would like to ask a lot of questions about the delay manoeuvres that N-VA has carried out here. What kind of world do you actually live in if you think that parents who have suffered a lot of income losses in recent months will now stay home at 70% of their wages for pleasure? This is a solution for people in need. What you do is parents who take on their responsibilities and take on their children at home because we all have to fight this virus together, stigmatize and point the finger at them. I would like to thank the colleagues I have worked with - I do not know if you have noticed, but they are all women - for this cooperation, which allows us to approve this bill here today. I would also like to thank the previous Minister for Work, Mrs Muylle, for taking part in the preparatory work and for having already instructed the RVA, despite these delays, to roll this out so that parents can make use of it. For the self-employed too, the directive has been distributed that they can receive their children through the right of bridging, and I hope that there will be a solution for civil servants soon. I would nevertheless like to take as my starting point equal treatment between contractual and statutory officials. I think that an amendment to the letter will do the trick. Finally, I would like to thank the services, who have somewhat countered the delay manoeuvres by delivering the written report very quickly today. Our group will support this proposal with conviction because we are convinced that this will provide a solution to parents in need and because it can help to prevent the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had tabled a bill on a somewhat different path, since it was a question of a double-modified corona leave. In fact, it was intended to allow for immediate leave, not with a delay, as provided for in the original Corona project. However, such leave was conditional upon quarantine, following the decision to close a nursery, classroom or school. The path that has been chosen here with the support of Minister Muylle is obviously a positive one. However, temporary unemployment for force majeure is restricted to employees. There is no provision in the text for the self-employed. In our original text, however, we had provided for an independent component. It would be important if, by means of a royal decree adopted as part of the extension of the bridge law, that measure were applied to them, just as it should to civil servants. Children must therefore be taken into account and families must be provided with a response regardless of their professional status. I have heard the debates and I would like to react on a few points. These include adolescents and the question of whether they are self-governing or not. I understand that the question may arise. But it seems to me impossible to provide, in one law, rules that are very different from one family to another, from one adolescent to another. On this point, the ONEM has an important role to play with the transposition for the application of this law, but also with the drafting of an explanatory circular. I come to another point which calls upon me. This measure is obviously not taken for the pleasure of the parents. There is a health issue, but with closures of classes, schools, crèches that are imposed by the authorities, overnight. All of us had to know about school directions that found themselves in extremely difficult situations, ahead of us, overnight, calling all parents to inform them that they would not be able to take their child(s) to school the next day. Once the authorities impose measures, they must find solutions for the persons concerned. The economic impact was also discussed. It is not negligible, whether it is for the self-employed who employs staff or for a small or medium-sized enterprise, which must happen overnight after an employee. However, the fact of going through temporary unemployment means that this absence is not the responsibility of companies. Let us be careful, it is certain that these parents would have called for the possibility of a medical certificate, which would have had consequences for the employer who should have paid. Moreover, on the business side, let us not forget one thing: the economic impact of the crisis is important, but the less well the health crisis is managed, the more the economic impact will increase. Breaking transmission channels and isolating porters in schools and crèches will also help to alleviate the health crisis we are going through, and thus reduce this economic impact. Finally, we can vote on texts and then not necessarily share the views of colleagues. Personally, I am in full opposition to what the PTB colleague said, according to whom, in the health crisis, one has to choose one's side: the workers or the employers. You say yourself, Mrs. Moscufo, that you choose the workers' camp. I do not agree with you at all. In this health crisis, we must pay attention to workers, regardless of their status (employee, independent or civil servant), but we must also pay great attention to employers. In fact, I am astonished at your position in relation to this, since, at some point, you told us that we had to defend Horeca, defend the cultural sector, etc. Well, I tell you, dear lady: the small self-employed in the horeca sector, whether they are coffees or restaurants, the small self-employed in the cultural sector employ employees; when these employees, overnight, do not present themselves at work, the small self-employed in these sectors that you claim to defend face difficult situations! My group will vote for this text, but I insist that we do not choose the workers' side against that of employers; we want to defend and provide solutions to both workers and employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u173	Mrs Fonck, without wishing to argue with you, I would like to clarify. I was saying that in response to another political party. I am, of course, with my party, very aware that small businesses and small self-employed people are also the victims of this crisis, as are workers. However, in committee discussion, we also alluded to the pressure that the Voka had put to curb this bill. When I was commenting on employers, I was talking to these dozens of multinationals who made even greater profits thanks to the VOCID-19 crisis, and not to small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u174	The last speaker, Mr. From Smet, will reconcile all these differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u175	What a pressure! I don't know if I should say thank you this time, Mr. President! I'll try to close, but I'll be brief. In exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. I believe that we are facing a proposal that should bring together, beyond partisan interests alone, and I am pleased to see that this is generally the case. Since the beginning of September, the League of Families had called for specific leave to cope with the numerous closures of classes and nurseries, but also for protection of parents from dismissal, as long as the colour code system persisted in schools. The situation of parents whose children are deprived of school and crèche is a matter of concern, particularly since the beginning of the school year. Either because the children are directly affected by VOCID-19, or because the children are placed in a quarter while both parents work. This proposal, tabled in May 2020, originally provided, as you know, for an extension of the Corona leave. Adopted and supported by the Kern+10 parties until 31 December 2020, it also made the Corona leave more accessible, more flexible and better compensated. However, it had to be noted that she did not fully meet the concerns of many parents faced with the closure of schools and crèches. That will now be the case. We find it positive that this proposal no longer provides for the right of veto on the part of the employer. In order to benefit from the new Corona parental leave, the worker will only have to inform his employer and provide without delay a certificate from the nursery, school or reception centre for disabled persons confirming the closure. In the same way that we supported, during the Kern+10 process, the introduction of the Corona leave, we will continue to support measures to support working parents, both direct and indirect victims of the health crisis. It is a balanced, common-sense measure that should be widely brought together. That's why DEFI will obviously support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u176	Goedenavond, mijnheer de voorzitter, ladies in here, leden van het Parliament, I would like to thank the Members of this House who put this proposal on the parliamentary track. This important mechanism is becoming increasingly necessary for many parents, due to the end of the parental leave coronavirus and, above all, with the explosion of contamination and the increase in closures of classes, schools or institutions for people with disabilities. The mechanism proposed here is, of course, an emergency measure - as Mrs Reuter has pointed out - which is part of a new context - which I will obviously not recall - and which must be used to respond to cases of force majeure, as Mrs De Jonge said. Ms Leroy, Ms Lanjri and Ms Vanrobaeys, with specific and concrete examples, pointed out that it was on their feet that parents had to find solutions - a few hours or even minutes before the opening of classes - to keep their children. For the little story, I have, moreover, experienced it before entering this plenary room. Today, the parliamentary path is on the way to government, since, as you know, this mechanism is included in the government agreement. Without assuming the vote in this House tonight, I have nevertheless taken the lead. I've already asked the RVA to prepare a standard form so we can activate the right immediately for parents who need it. I also pointed out to Mr Petra De Sutter the need to introduce a similar system for civil servants. She immediately replied that she had requested her administration to put in place a similar arrangement for statutory officials, so that employees, contractual officials, statutory officials or, through bridge law, the independents, each and every one of them faced with this situation and this case of force majeure could ensure that his children were kept. As some have said here, I do not think that this mechanism will be abused. This is in any case the confidence I have in the Belgian population. As mentioned above, no one voluntarily chooses to reduce their treatment by 70 per cent. This is something that should make some and some think about the degressivity of unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u177	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u178	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1270/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1270/8) The title has been amended by the committee in "Proposal for a law extending to salaried workers the benefit of the temporary unemployment scheme for force majeure corona in the event of the closure of their child's school, day-care centre or reception centre for disabled persons". The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal to open temporary unemployment force majeure corona for workers in the event of closure of the school, shelter or shelter centre for persons with disabilities of their child." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u179	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u180	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Peter Buysrogge, Theo Francken, Michael Freilich, Jan Briers, Hendrik Bogaert, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u181	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1049/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1049/5) The title has been amended by the committee in "proposal for a resolution to improve the geographical distribution of barracks in Belgium, in particular through the creation of new military districts in East Flanders and Hainaut". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Resolution on a better geographical distribution of barracks in Belgium, in particular by setting up new military quarters in East Flanders and Hainaut." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u182	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u183	The rapporteur refers to his written report. Mr Buysrogge was entered as the first speaker in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u184	Mr President, should we wait until the Minister arrives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u185	This is not essential in a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u186	Apparently, there is not much interest from the Minister in this resolution. Colleagues, at the beginning of 2020 there was the New Year's reception of the CHOD, the top defense officer, who has now been waved off. He made a warm plea for the defense to ensure a better regional distribution. In particular, General Compernol also mentioned the site of Gavere. At that time, it had just left the site, the air traffic controllers. So that barracks was just empty and there was an opportunity to maybe start something new there with the Defense Department. The air traffic controllers had been sheltered in Steenokkerzeel and since then that barracks has been empty. Apparently it is also turned on as a depot to distribute mouth masks during the corona crisis, but otherwise the barracks are empty. In recent years and decades there has even been a lot of empty barracks throughout East Flanders, for example the site Westakkers in Sint-Niklaas, Beervelde, the Leopoldskazerne in Ghent. All these barracks have become empty and there is no barracks in all of East Flanders anymore. For the record, although I am an East Fleming, I really do not want to make a provincial plea, but I do want to make a plea for the recruitment of people by Defence and also the preservation of military forces in Defense. This is, after all, a point of concern which we have had a lot of discussions about in committee in the recent past. Recently we heard General Thys, who was then a transition manager, although some called him crisis manager, and who meanwhile became the second man within the Defense Department and worked in tandem with Admiral Hofman. He then talked about East Flanders as a recruitment desert because there is a lack of barracks and too few people can be recruited and can stay. Who wants to commute daily from, for example, West or East Flanders to Limburg or elsewhere? Those distances scare people to choose Defense, let alone stay within Defense. I'm glad to hear that further plans are being developed in the Defense Department's lap. In that sense we could hear that a para-unit is being thought to be housed in the barracks of Gavere. Some of the people from Tielen would be there. I have also read about it in the coalition agreement which is thought of ideas such as the firehouse of the future, where it should be possible to use it as a hub or development, to enable telework and from there to provide training, training, exercises, training sessions, whatever. This is entirely in line with the resolution before us today, for which there was a considerable support in committee. Colleagues, I won't last too long. Mr President, I will not put your patience to the test for too long. By the way, you're running this meeting very neatly today. I'd like to give you two concerns. A first concern is that our country is apparently linked to something like a waffle iron, even when it comes to such concrete proposals. This motion for a resolution was inspired by what is alive within the Defense Department and by a number of issues raised in hearings. It could only support the approval of our French-speaking colleagues if attention was also paid to Hainaut. We have therefore extended this resolution to allow investment in Hainaut in the future. Who could be against that? If that increases the support for this resolution, we also support it. One can ask questions about the methodology, because this is an opportunity that occurs in Gavere. Anyway, we've registered in that logic. A second concern, Mr President, concerns the regional distribution. This is literally in the coalition agreement, just like the barracks of the future. Our group is concerned about the development of such barracks, because this must of course be supported in the budget. We have not yet had a chance to discuss this with the Minister, but we hope to be able to do so soon. We hope, then, to hear how this clarity can be established and how we can obtain assurances about the budgetary concerns that exist, not only with regard to this barracks, but also in a wider perspective. When it comes to investing in Defense, I hope to get an answer from the Minister soon. This resolution and investing in the Gavere site is really an opportunity. I am pleased that this resolution was widely supported in committee. A group abstained, but I have the ambition that that group should reconsider its position in a positive way. I look forward to the vote and further concreteisation for our people of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u187	No one from Ecolo-Groen has entered the discussion. I shall then give the floor to Mr Lacroix.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u188	Mr President, may I intervene for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u189	I follow the size of the political groups in determining the order of the speakers. We all have to adapt to that a little bit, Mr Briers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u190	Mr President, I would like to reassure Mr Briers that the order of passage depends on the importance of the political groups and not on the quality of the men who speak, otherwise I think that Mr Briers is a brilliant and quality man and he could have spoken before me. I would also like to thank Mr Buysrogge for having presented this resolution, even though we in the Socialist Party, which has been supported by other political parties, have had the aim of improving its basic proposal. It's a good improvement, I think. Indeed, we must remember the general context in which this resolution was discussed and brought by Mr Buysrogge. Before the summer break, on a proposal from our group, we voted for a resolution that points to human resources in Defence as the priority of the next government, in any case, one of the priorities to be re-established in the government that we have finally been able to form. The resolution provided that a balanced distribution of defence across the national territory was an argument that should become a priority in the action of the future or the future Minister of National Defence. It is quite logical that, in this resolution, which has been voted on almost unanimously, we have ensured that there is a balance. And no, colleagues, I do not think that the claim that another defence desert should be brought to the attention of the government and the Minister of National Defence, namely the repetition of the policy of the waffler, the policy of the good father Belgium! I don't think so! It is simply a recognition that in Flanders, and particularly in East Flanders, there is indeed a lack of a barracks or that in any case there is an opportunity to set up a neighbourhood of the future. As I said to you in committee, in college, I will never blame you for defending the interests of your province and of Flanders more broadly, but there is clearly also a need in Wallonia. This need is expressed in Hainaut. It is not a replica of a traditional Belgian policy such as that we have known in the past where, in the end, investments were made to ensure a balance, to make pleasure. Here, there is a utility in East Flanders and there is a real utility in Hainaut. It is therefore this preservation of a useful balance that is important to us. In fact, on the occasion of the debate, we regretted that we did not take sufficient account of the Flemish reality and the Walloon reality, the Brussels reality in this case. We know that the province of Hainaut is completely devoid of a large military quarter when it is a large pool of jobs in our country and its territory has many defence-related companies. I could talk about Sonaca and others. These companies are also linked to research and innovation, which are strictly and highly intertwined defence-related areas. This province also has many potential grounds for such development, indeed an opportunity for the future of our Defence. It is therefore in this sense that I have proposed an amendment to improve your basic text. This amendment has been adopted and I thank colleagues who have voted in this direction. Since then, the government agreement has been published. At the heart of this government agreement are the central issues for the future of our Defence, including, among other things, the improvement of the working conditions of the women and men who make up our army, including in infrastructure and military quarters. I really think that the government agreement offers a major and significant opportunity by speaking black and white about future neighbourhood projects in Flanders and Wallonia. On this basis, it will be a matter of balanced geographical reflection, taking account of a number of factors, including the balance between the different regions. We will therefore be particularly vigilant to ensure that the Minister of Defence can have the necessary budgets for this year's future budget work as well as for the coming years. In any case, it will be able to build on this resolution, which I hope will receive the greatest support in this House in order to be able to rely not only on a government agreement but also on a resolution voted by parliamentarians by overcoming the traditional divisions of political factions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u191	Mr Briers, I will not put your patience to the test for more than five minutes, after which you will undoubtedly be able to make a very interesting speech. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 July we adopted a motion for a resolution on HR policy in defence. After all, this HR policy is currently in difficulty. In 2019, the media reported that almost half of the military would retire in the coming years. In fact, the internal figures of the Defense Department showed that some 11,400 soldiers would be retired in the coming years. As if that retirement wave weren't bad enough, more and more experienced soldiers between 30 and 40 years of age appeared to cancel their contract with Defense on their own initiative to look for better places. If I can believe the union president of the ACMP, there were 343 last year alone. We can only hope that the resolution does not die silently, now that the PS delivers the Secretary of Defense. Madam Minister, your group has adopted the PS resolution, like all other groups of the majority and the Flemish Interest, with one abstention. There is therefore no reason to stick to words alone, because even beyond the limits of majority and opposition there is a great consensus on the HR resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the PS resolution that brings us to the proposal for a resolution before us today. The first to take an initiative on the military domain in Gavere was colleague Pieter De Spiegeleer. In February of this year, he questioned Minister Goffin about the future of the military domain in Gavere. Maybe that gave him the impetus to the text before us today. The motion for a resolution was tabled in unsuspecting times, when the chairman of the N-VA and the chairman of the Open Vld had not yet had a cup of coffee, and the N-VA probably still had full conviction that it would end up in the government. Mr Buysrogge, this is not just the fact that you did not ask me to sign the text. Luckily, after a few sessions at the psychologist's, I survived. The fact is that not only your name, but also the names of Mr Freilich and Mr Francken are included in the list of applicants, as well as the names of Mr Brier's, Mr Bogaert's and Mr Horresco's referens, I would almost say also of Mr Egbert Lachaert. What did Bredero say? It was something about "can" and "reverse," but I kind of forgot. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, the text before us is perfectly in line with the PS resolution. During the discussion of the proposal, I pointed out in all modesty that you know me already that the aspect of accessibility and proximity to the employer is too often overlooked, especially in the personnel policy of the Defence Department. However, the motion for a resolution before us does not do so and takes it into account. With the departure of the Air Traffic Control Centre or ATCC from Gavere, as Mr Buysrogge rightly pointed out, the canvas threatened to fall over the last real barracks in East Flanders. Fortunately, the text tries to deal with this problem. In other words, there was an opportunity in East Flanders, on which the proposal before us by Mr Buysrogge and his cheerful friends played out perfectly in the majority. One asks for the reinforcement of the regional distribution of the barracks, by inserting a unit of the land component in East Flanders, in particular, these were the options originally intended in the text by creating a unit on the one hand and housing them in East Flanders and more specifically in Gavere and, on the other hand, possibly transferring an existing unit to Gavere in part or in part. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Buysrogge will not be surprised, but the Flemish interest is very much in favour of the motion for a resolution. Even the PS amendments mentioned by Mr Buysrogge, which brought back the old Belgian waffle iron policy from never really went away, cannot spoil the fun for me and my group. Colleagues, it may seem that we Flemings have let us roll because we in Gavere are satisfied with existing infrastructure, which already has a few kilometres on the counter, while the proposal, through the amendments, calls for a completely new military complex to be built in Hainaut. Apart from these reservations, I can conclude with good news for the proposers. That good news, Mr Buysrogge, is that we will be enthusiastically adopting this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the last four barracks in East Flanders are closed. The population of the second province of our country in terms of population, with more than one and a half million in the meantime, remained in the cold. As the provincial governor of East Flanders, I have been working for years to preserve or establish at least one barracks, and as a supporter I had the former Chief of Staff of the Army, Marc Compernolle, as Mr Buysrogge rightly confirms. Defence is urgently looking for new recruits, and the East and West Fleming must be given the opportunity to find work in their own spacious region. In the Committee on Defence, the support was very strong, and I would like to thank my colleagues from the other parties for supporting this resolution with great consensus. A land combat unit in Gavere, 15 km from Ghent and 10 km from the West Flemish border, is therefore the best solution and fits perfectly into the strategic vision set out by the Defense Department. Colleagues, I was speaking of course about East Flanders, but I also welcome the spread to Hainaut. Young people from all over our country need to be able to get a place to work within a radius of 50 to 60 km and this is a possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we agree on one thing, it is that Defence must have the ambition of getting another forceful army. I believe that there are three very important priorities for this. First of all, find new motivated soldiers. Secondly, finding new motivated soldiers. And third, finding new motivated soldiers. 'Cause that's where today's big problem is with the DOD. To do that, Defense must be an attractive employer. That has to do with the remuneration, that has to do with the infrastructure, that has to do with the material. But that also has to do with the framework conditions of the job. That's what today's about. So there's a lot of work to be done. What is ahead today is a small but not insignificant part of it. If we want to find new motivated soldiers, we need to know that these soldiers have a family, that they have family, that they have friends, and that they are no different than many workers in our country. They want to be fully committed to their job, but they also want to be okay with their work-life balance. So it's very important to them that the barracks are nearby. Reference has already been made here to the coalition agreement. That coalition agreement already contains a number of things that are very interesting to put into practice. I expect that this will also be reflected in the policy paper, which we will certainly be able to discuss extensively in committee. Mr Buysrogge, if you are concerned about the budget, I can tell you one thing: this government will invest more in defence than the previous one. You referred to the buildings. There are more chapters in the coalition agreement than just that on Defense. There is also a chapter on the renovation of public buildings. You should know that the renovation of those public buildings is a spearhead in the Recovery Fund. Barracks are part of that, as far as I'm concerned. I believe that we will also have your support at the time when we will be calling for these old buildings to be dealt with. With all due respect to colleagues from East Flanders and Hainaut, we have had an extra remark written in the text. For us it is a general spread of the barracks. We want a better spread. That way the soldiers can work closer to home. They can use public transport to work. And that way we can attract new soldiers. Since that has been added, we will support the text before us. For us it is clear: the army will be family-friendly, or it will not be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u194	Mr Buysrogge wishes to interrupt you for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u195	Mr President, since the honourable Member was so polite as to mention my name, I would like to take the floor. Mr Verduyckt, you speak rather comfortingly, but I hope I can agree with you when you say that there will be investment in the defence sector. I am trying to remember last week's debate when I questioned Mr Lachaert about the resources for defence. The Minister himself did not allow me to receive an answer, but I hope to get it soon. Mr Lachaert said that, at the moment, the famous budget table does not provide any additional euros for the defence sector in terms of operating and personnel expenditure. I find that very painful. That is why I hope that you, together with your government coalition partners, can do something about that. It is not just a question of much-needed investment, but also, for example, of recurrent resources for HR policy. I hope that the necessary investments will be made in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u196	Mr Buysrogge, we have no lessons to learn from the N-VA. There were many promises in the previous coalition agreement. I remember the very first budgetary exercise of that government in 2015. It was then that EUR 225 million of savings were made. Most people will remember the stories about the shutting down of elevators, the falling heating and a shortage of bullets. I hope we don't go back to such times. In the coming weeks and months, we will discuss this in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u197	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u198	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u199	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Melissa Depraetere, Anja Vanrobaeys, Jan Bertels, Nahima Lanjri, Sophie Thémont, Tania De Jonge, Evita Willaert, Marie-Colline Leroy, Benoît Piedboeuf, Vicky Reynaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u200	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I think our rapporteur is Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u201	Mr President, as we do not yet have the written report, I will take care of the oral report. The aim of this bill is to allow the use by CPAS of the subsidy granted in 2020, which would normally be used before 31 December, by extending it until the end of 2021. This is due to the fact that beneficiaries are even more acutely affected by the VOCID-19 pandemic than others. In the course of the committee discussions, it became clear that everyone was committed to validating this proposal to extend the period during which the grant can be used. In addition, it is a matter of allowing for fair and adequate use by the CPAS, by means of a correct allocation and not of an expenditure on the rush. As a reminder, this gesture was widely requested and supported by the CPAS. Two technical amendments were tabled with the aim of bringing the dates into line. Small additional amendments have been made to the basic draft law to allow this extension until the end of 2021. I shall end by saying that the vote in favour of this text was unanimous. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to announce that we will support this bill tonight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group will support this proposal because spending such a budget properly in the short term is an impossible matter for the OMCWs and to avoid being almost forced to spend the money on less good things than if they were given more time. That wouldn't be good governance. That makes sense to me. The OMCWs have also clearly indicated this in the previous hearings. From next year on, people will really only know and see what the consequences of this corona crisis are for them. As always with OCMW's, this doesn't come up until after a while. Those are all very legitimate things. It is a very fair proposal from colleagues and the sp.a colleague in particular. I must add, however, that we rightly said at the time in the nuclear cabinet that the EUR 110 million that we postponed for questions was based on nothing. At a certain point, there was a sintering-clay policy which was mostly unsubstantiated. OMCWs will need money, and at least next year. That's not where the discussion is. The president of the PPS Social Integration even had to admit in the hearing that it was EUR 110 million based on nothing and that there was no basis for that. I hope that the new government will deal with this in a different way in the future. It shall be without prejudice to this proposal. The N-VA Group is absolutely in favour of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u203	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for us this bill was obvious. Indeed, – the CPAS Federation had pulled the alarm bell – we did not want to give the impression that it was an announcement effect by saying: "You can get 110 million euros, but they are to be spent before 31 December", otherwise it is clearly that these 110 million euros were not really necessary. Actually, it's all the other way around. This need is there, but especially it happens. This has been mentioned, the delayed effect, that is, the fact that many people will, within a few weeks and for a few weeks, try to find alternatives not to get into the CPAS, by using their little wool stockings, their savings, friends to provide for problematic moments, believing that they are only accidental, that the situation will start again, etc. It is clear, however, that the current situation is not favourable from an economic point of view. For us, it is important to be able to send this signal to the CPAS and say: "You can still orientate, work even more efficiently and structured to meet expectations more appropriately". Also, lying down was a very good thing for us. I would therefore like to thank the Group of the European People's Party on the initiative of this text, because it has brought it very, very quickly, so that we can vote on it today. And that's a good signal for CPAS. From now on, they know they can work differently. I also wanted to highlight an extremely positive element in my view. In this committee - and I have pointed it out to the minister - this is not always the case, but this week there was a particularly good exchange of views. We voted unanimously on this text and everyone was able to support a bill for the most vulnerable audiences. The fact deserves to be stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u204	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, we are experiencing an unprecedented health and social crisis. It is true that many families are permanently affected. Savings are often made on basic needs, such as food or health care. The previous government had put this envelope on the table. A boon for CPAS who are in great need of it and who are waging daily battles to fight poverty in this very difficult time. An indispensable budget, but as has been said, limited in time to 31 December 2020. Thanks to my colleague's bill, this envelope will be extended until December 31, 2021. We can of course welcome this, since CPAS will have sufficient time to put in place effective policies for the most vulnerable and to respond to the consequences of the long-term crisis. I co-signed this text for my party. It was voted unanimously. It's true that it's rare. That's an exception. He was supported, I would also point out, by our new minister, who was also present in committee, and I thank her. I imagine that she will continue, and I am convinced, to carry out important work in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u205	Mr President, the previous minority government decided at the end of June to grant an additional subsidy of EUR 110 million to the OMCWs in the framework of the COOVID-19 measures with the aim of helping people who have financial problems due to the corona crisis. Initially, this amount had to be spent between 1 June and 31 December of this year, which is very tight timing. Expenditure on additional resources is not a good thing, especially since these budgets must be used wherever they are needed to help families financially affected by the corona crisis. We can assume that not everyone has yet found their way to the OCMW. Given the current flare-up of the virus, it is not excluded that vulnerable people will still be financially affected by the corona crisis in 2021. Moreover, OMCWs are themselves requesting the extension of the spending period until the end of December 2021. The present bill responds to the demands of the OMCWs. The Flemish Interest will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u206	Mr President, we have co-signed. As my colleagues have pointed out, this has been voted unanimously. I would therefore like to reassure my colleague, Marie-Colline Leroy, that this was obviously not an announcement effect. Now that we constitute a majority together, she will realize that we are not promising days and that we will continue in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u207	The later the evening, the shorter the speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u208	Mr President, you will not be surprised that we will vote in favour of this proposal quite rightly and firmly. It was very clear in recent weeks that the alarm bell at OCMW's began to ring in different cities, so it was certainly not five to twelve, but five to twelve. Our concern was, of course, that the money would come to the right people. As I have also made clear in committee this week, the PVDA will, of course, go fully ahead with this extension. Of course, we would have liked Minister Ducarme of the MR to have given this a lot of thought from the outset or that the previous government had changed faster, then there would not have been such a panic with the OCMWs. It is, however, a good thing that the three parties of the previous government have realised their mistake and now support this extension. Chapeau! I would add that I hope that it will not end with this additional support for the OMCWs. There are still a lot of needs, both among the right holders and the staff who are currently in full swing due to the corona crisis. Therefore, the new government can still do a lot for them by working on structural solutions to the administrative burden of the OMCWs, their underfunding and certainly the benefits below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u209	Mr President, many of our colleagues also have local mandates and have undoubtedly heard the distress call of the OCMW services that they will have difficulty presenting a full plan by 31 December 2020. We must not forget that during the corona period many sectors have been deciphered to help, care for and serve others. Our social services were also on the line of fire to help people who are having a hard time. The increase in the files is not unusual. This will have been the case in most cities and municipalities. On top of that, getting the files processed in the framework of the support measures granted by the federal government was very difficult. Therefore, there was little time to analyse the use of these funds, thereby jeopardising the qualitative impact of support projects. Apart from that, the needs of the most vulnerable will only be really visible in 2021. I would like to thank Mrs Depraetere as her initiator and all my fellow Members. Everyone has heard this cry for help. We have signed the proposal with great pleasure and, of course, we will be happy to approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u210	Mr President, I would like to thank colleagues for their reasonableness. What is present here ensures that the OMCWs are given the necessary resources to be able to use them for the right target group. I believe that this is very reasonable. I would therefore like to thank both the Minister and all my fellow Members for their support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u211	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words to thank all the colleagues who have tabled this bill, who have signed it and who will vote unanimously. It's a great signal for all the CPAS in the country. It was a request from the field. Sometimes it is said that this Parliament is far from the ground, but here you have heard the CPAS, the CPAS federations and their appeal. It was necessary for that money, as you said, Mrs Van Peel, to go where he should go. I would remind you that these are all individual files that must be written by CPAS workers and employees. The workload is substantial. It is also financed by another budget that has been released. Of course, I believe that this will help not only the most vulnerable people today but also the victims of the crisis, who, unfortunately, will still have to come knocking on the door of CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u212	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u213	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1528/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1528/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u214	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u215	By messages of 23 September 2020 the Assembly of the French Community Commission and the Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie announce that they have formed themselves in their meetings today. By letters dated 23 September 2020, the Assemblée de la Commission Community française and the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that they had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 28 September 2020, the Vlaams Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting. By letter dated 28 September 2020, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u216	I propose that Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber be made applicable to the work of the Justice Committee concerning the file transmitted by the Conference of Presidents on the issue of the composition and functioning of the Data Protection Authority. I propose that Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure be applied to the work of the Committee on Justice on the file transmitted by the Conference of Presidents on the issues of the composition and operation of the Data Protection Authority. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u217	Petra De Sutter, Member of the European Parliament, was appointed Minister on 1 October 2020. Ms Petra De Sutter, Member of the European Parliament, became Minister of the Federal Government on 1 October 2020. Given the incompatibility of these terms, she is automatically resigning as a Member of the European Parliament. Since these mandates are incompatible, it is therefore automatically resigning as a Member of the European Parliament. The first alternate to replace her is Ms. Sara Matthieu. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was validated by our Assembly during the sitting on 27 June 2019. The first successor to replace her is Ms. Sara Matthieu. The election of the latter as an alternate member of the European Parliament was approved at the plenary session of our assembly on 27 June 2019. The person concerned fulfils the conditions of eligibility laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. The person concerned fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. I therefore propose that you introduce Mrs Sara Matthieu as an effective member of the European Parliament. I therefore propose that Mrs Sara Matthieu be proposed as a permanent member of the European Parliament. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u218	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u219	I myself ask the urgency for my bill No. 1556/1 amending the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and open accounting of the political parties as regards the financial report. In accordance with what our experts send us, this bill wants to adapt the legislation to the amended company law. We must bring this law into line with it. This is also a bicameral matter, which will take some time. This must be done before the end of the year. That is why I dare to ask you to grant urgency to this proposal. Is there a consensus on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u220	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 111 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u221	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 130 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u222	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[109]] Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[113]] Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u224	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u225	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 121 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u226	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 126 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u227	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-08-55-plenair-ip062x.u228	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 13 October 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Tuesday, October 13, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
