ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u1	Minister, I'm not going to read my whole question. I refer to the written text of my question, but I will be very attentive to the additional information that you can give us. You have already addressed the subject in part in your responses during the presentation of the guidance note. I'd like to know what new initiatives you've started. In terms of humanitarian aid, what role Belgium could play for people suffering in Nagorny Karabakh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u2	Madam Minister, in September 2020 the outbreak of the frozen conflict on the historically autonomous Armenian region of Nagorno-Karabakh, including the surrounding border provinces, known as the Republic of Artsakh, put the international status of the region back on the agenda. Artsakh had for centuries an autonomous status as an ethnic Armenian region, both within the larger Armenia and within the territory of present-day Azerbaijan. The historical cultural Armenian roots of the area go back to the fifth century BC. From the late fifth century to the early twentieth century, successive Persian, Arabic and Russian rulers have allowed great autonomy to the area known as Karabach. After a short independent period after the First World War, Artsakh was again overrun by the Russians and assigned to the Soviet Republic of Azerbaijan in 1921. Artsakh was artificially cut off from the rest of Armenia, which formed its own Soviet republic, by housing it in Azerbaijan. It was a strategic manoeuvre by the Soviet Union in an attempt to keep the new secular Turkish republic out of the western sphere of influence. In 1923, however, under Stalin, Upper Karabakh was once again recognized as an autonomous oblast within the Republic of Azerbaijan. Artsakh was separated from the historical Armenian motherland with an Azerbaijani corridor, where the majority of Armenians lived. That history already makes it clear that the contemporary republic of Artsakh is rooted in an historically autonomous Armenian nation, which depended on foreign rulers alternately connected with Armenia. In the 1990s, after the break-up of the Soviet Union, this historic autonomy was again called into question by the Azerbaijanis who claimed the area. An armed conflict broke out, which was frozen with an armistice in 1994, which respected and marked the borders of the autonomous republic of Artsakh. But, unfortunately, in the early morning of 27 September 2020, the civilian population of the Republic of Artsakh is shocked by violent bombings. A few hours later, with military support from Turkey, Azerbaijan declared war on the Republic. This led to war crimes such as the use of cluster bombs and chemical weapons and attacks at schools and hospitals. Infrastructure, graves, churches and monuments were destroyed. Eventually, a significant part of Nagorno-Karabakh was occupied by the Azeris, including the surrounding provinces. With a cease-fire under pressure from Russia and outside the framework of the OSCE Minsk Group, the conflict was temporarily resolved. Both Turkey, Russia and Azerbaijan actually win the result and leave the Armenian people as the great loser. There is no longer any mention of the 1994 borders. Thousands of Armenians have been driven from their lands and homes and fleeing the violence of war. It is clear that this disastrous situation is not an acceptable outcome for the Armenians and cannot therefore mean lasting peace. The result of the recent conflict is not only humanitarian suffering, but also a complete denial by Azerbaijan of Artsakh's ancient autonomy. Madam Secretary, will the Belgian Government recognize the Republic as an independent sovereign state? If not, will the government at least establish diplomatic relations with the Republic of Artsakh?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, I am not going to go back to the situation in Nagorny Karabakh. We have had an opportunity to discuss this at length, whether in plenary or here in committee. I would just like to say that a resolution I have put forward with several colleagues will, I hope, be adopted tomorrow in plenary by Parliament. Of course, one of the many aspects it addresses is the issue of the ceasefire. One of the main demands is that the parties to the conflict strictly respect it. On the ground, the situation seems to be at least troubled. Indeed, we learned this weekend that a violation of this ceasefire had been reported by the Russian army on 11 December in the Hadrout district. More specifically, automatic gunfire would have taken place. Requests for compliance with the cease-fire were then sent promptly to both parties. Minister, do you have any further information on the current situation in Nagorny Karabakh? Do you have more details about this ceasefire violation? According to your information, is this an isolated case? Could the situation have been calmed down? To your knowledge, what have been the results and consequences of this event? I would also like to refer briefly to the latest statements by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, during his visit to Baku to celebrate the Azerbaijani victory, said that he wanted "Azerbaijan's struggle against Armenia to continue". According to the Turkish President, "the struggle will now continue on many other fronts". Those are his words. These statements must of course encourage us to be more cautious than ever before. Minister, my question is simple: how do you react to it? What could be the consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u4	Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am not going to go back to the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. We have discussed this issue at length in the context of the resolution to be adopted by the House tomorrow. I would just like to go back to the Turkish President's statements on 10 December. My colleague Mr. De Maegd has already referred to it. At the very moment when the Heads of State and Government of the European Union were meeting in Brussels, with a form of formidable nose or arm of honour, President Erdogan made Turkish troops march in Baku at the same time as Azerbaijan's troops. This is proof that these troops fought. We don't parade troops that wouldn't fight. The Turkish President had so far denied that these troops had been involved in this conflict. The Turkish President made outrageous remarks about the Armenian genocide. He said that "the struggle that has been waged so far in the military and political field will now continue on many different fronts". He glorified the memory of Enver Pasha, one of the three main sponsors of the 1915 Armenian genocide. Azerbaijan's president, for his part, affirmed Baku's ambitions for Yerevan, the Zanguezour region and the Lake Sevan region. These regions represent a large part of the territory of the current Republic of Armenia. The message of the two Heads of State is clear: after having emptied Western Armenia from its Armenian population during the 1915 genocide, the Nakhichevan region during the 20th century and now part of Nagorny Karabakh, Erdogan and Aliyev joined forces to "complete the work of their ancestors", according to the Turkish President's formulation. This is obviously extremely shocking. We knew President Erdogan was a negationist. There he seems to want to continue the massacres. He even referred to the Armenian genocide of 1915 to "finish the work", according to his words. Today, Madam Minister, it is up to us, you must protect the Armenian population, strongly condemn this totally scandalous and unacceptable statement, and finally have a firm and determined attitude towards the Erdogan regime, which will definitely allow itself everything, before it becomes guilty of new illegal war adventures, causing new human tragedies. I expect you, Madam Minister, to take an extremely firm stance on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u6	Madam President, we have already started this discussion on Nagorny Karabakh during the discussion on the policy note. I am not going to go back to the events at the root of the conflict or to the war that took place from 27 September to 9 November last. Before I answer the questions in more detail, I will first try to draw up the current picture of the situation on the spot, in any case based on the information at our disposal. As you know, a ceasefire agreement was finally reached on 9 November and it was followed by the ultra-fast deployment of a 1960 Russian peacekeeping force. Overall – I say quite well – the agreement was fairly well respected but a serious problem occurred on 11 and 12 December in the region north of the city of Hadrout, occupied by the Azerbaijani forces. The intervention of the Russian peacekeeping forces has helped to calm the situation. Regrettably, both sides have died and wounded. Observers in the area are of the opinion that this is only an isolated incident – if it can be described as such – due to a flaw in the monitoring system that the Russian peacekeeping forces have put in place. In the meantime, this flaw has clearly been corrected. Russia has not only deployed units to patrol along the new lines of contact between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces in Karabakh. It also includes demining and civil engineering units. In addition, an interdepartmental centre for technical and humanitarian assistance has been established, whose teams have been sent to Karabakh and are responsible for repairing power lines, gas distribution network, main roads and medical infrastructure. Stepanakert Airport will also receive humanitarian and medical assistance directly by air. A mission coordinated by the United Nations representative in Baku and composed of representatives of United Nations humanitarian organizations is also preparing to visit Karabakh to assess humanitarian, medical and technical needs. The report of this mission will be very useful because it will serve as a beacon for the international community, therefore also for European bodies, their member countries and therefore also for Belgium, which is ready to provide assistance in the reconstruction of infrastructure, housing, the protection of cultural heritage and the delivery of emergency products – I am thinking, for example, of foodstuffs or medicines. The Red Cross and the Russian peacekeeping forces play a facilitating role between the two sides in negotiating an agreement on the exchange of prisoners of war and remains. The Armenian side wishes to have a single major exchange rather than a step-by-step exchange. An exchange finally took place on Monday, 14 December 2020. A Russian plane first transported 16 Azerbaijani prisoners of war from Yerevan to Baku and then brought 44 Armenian prisoners of war back to their country of origin, the exchange of prisoners being somewhat delayed. As for the remains, several hundred have already been exchanged, including 600 Armenian remains. The end of hostilities would also seem to have given confidence to a part of the population of Nagorny Karabakh, since 50,000 Armenians who had sought refuge in Armenia during the hostilities have returned to Karabakh, which is undoubtedly a positive development, even if it is not enough. The Minsk Group, which, as you will recall, was unable to play its role of negotiating the ceasefire, has resumed the reindeer of the diplomatic process. The French, American and Russian co-chairs had met on the margins of the OSCE monthly meeting on 2 and 3 December. On 11 and 12 December 2020, they visited Azerbaijan together, then Armenia and, according to our information, the purpose of the visit was to take the pulse of the situation in Baku and Yerevan. They also met with the leaders of the Armenian community in Nagorny Karabakh, with the Minsk Group remaining the only international forum authorized by the United Nations Security Council to facilitate negotiations on a comprehensive and lasting solution to the situation in Nagorny Karabakh. This does not mean, however, that the European bodies and the Member States of the European Union cannot contribute to the search for a solution. Of course, the broad lines of the solution, such as the status of the future of Nagorny Karabakh and the normalization of relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia, will be discussed in the Minsk Group. But, in addition to these negotiations, in the case of a comprehensive agreement, other tasks will have to be undertaken: reconstruction, the development of economic, commercial, transport links between the belligerents, the protection of the cultural and religious heritage, the launching of regional cooperation between the three countries of the South Caucasus and their three major neighbours, namely Turkey, Russia, Iran, etc. In each of these cases, the European Union has a toolbox for development, reconciliation and reconstruction measures. It should therefore be able to play an important role in the above-mentioned areas, which should guide the diplomatic process and consolidate the confidence that should be developed between the parties. So much for my explanation of the situation in the field and the state of the diplomatic process. That diplomatic process will start with caution because of the political situation in Armenia. The military defeat has deeply shocked the Armenian people and the position of Prime Minister Pashinian has weakened. The parliamentary and non-parliamentary opposition has united in a movement. It demands the resignation of Prime Minister Pashinian, the formation of a provisional government of national unity and early elections. The influential Armenian Church supports the opposition's appeal. While Prime Minister Pashinian still has a parliamentary majority, his position is systematically undermined by the opposition. After all, he blames him for defeat in its entirety. At some point, the Armenian political elite must close ranks to take place at the negotiating table with the co-chair of the Minsk Group and the Azerbaijani leadership. During the forty-four days of conflict and then atrocities were committed against civilians and soldiers? Both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch indicate that atrocities have occurred on both sides against soldiers. She believes she has two court executions of Armenian soldiers by Azerbaijani troops and one execution of an Azerbaijani soldier by Armenian soldiers. However, this does not reflect the full situation. In addition, images of beatings and humiliating behavior towards captured soldiers have appeared on social media. It is up to both parties to investigate these allegations and, if necessary, to punish the perpetrators. A positive development in this respect took place on Monday 14 December. Four Azerbaijani soldiers were charged by the Attorney General of their country, two for the destruction and violation of Armenian graves and two for the dishonorable treatment of physical remains of fallen enemies. The burden of proof relied on by the Azerbaijani Public Prosecutor's Office comes from the military themselves. After all, they had filmed their misdeeds and posted them on their Facebook page. It is positive that the Azerbaijani authorities apparently do not intend to sweep the documented proven wrongdoings of their soldiers under the mat. Information on the destruction of cultural and religious monuments, the destruction of cemeteries and the threat of torture of civilians by Azerbaijani soldiers has so far proved rare. They remain, of course, unacceptable. We must therefore be vigilant. The destruction in and around Nagorno-Karabakh is great. The reconstruction needs are extensive. Thousands have been killed and major destruction has been carried out. In addition, we are familiar with the images of Armenian citizens living in areas that need to be returned to Azerbaijan, who refused to wait for the arrival of the Azerbaijani army, set fire to their homes and left for Armenia with them. I would also like to consider the request for recognition of the Republic of Artsakh. Since 1994, no country has taken the decision to recognise the Republic of Artsakh, not even Armenia. The future status of Nagorno-Karabakh will be negotiated in the Minsk Group. It is not up to individual states and even less to a country such as Belgium, which values international law, to ignore the international legal order. However, it will be the first country to recognise a negotiated outcome. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interest in the issue of Nagorno-Karabakh. I personally follow them with great interest, also and above all because I am convinced that, once the military conflict is a thing of the past, there is the possibility of achieving a lasting normalization of the relationship. Such an evolution, which I would very much welcome, would make an important contribution to peace and stability on the European continent and the South Caucasus in particular. In the coming days, I will meet my Armenian and Azerbaijani colleagues and address the situation on the ground, the humanitarian needs of the people and, of course, the future of the region, including the role that the EU and Belgium can play in this. Finally, I was asked about the recent speeches by President Aliyev and President Erdogan in Baku during the parade on 10 December. It is obvious that the reference to history and its interpretation are more than questionable. Of course, we condemn such provocations and call for reason and, as always, negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u7	Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive answers as usual. Of course, the words that Mr Dallemagne spoke about are regrettable with the reference to the Armenian genocide and the fact that they now want to finish the work of their ancestors. This is unacceptable for Belgium, which is at the forefront of the defence and recognition of the Armenian genocide. If one makes a historical connection with this, it is terribly painful and unacceptable. I say this all the more because I am also elected in the commune which houses the memorial of the Armenian genocide and which also made it possible to erect the first Armenian church. On the European Union side, I regret to note that Russia has taken the lead. When the European Union, in recent days, is at the forefront in the field of climate and digital technology, one can truly regret, as a fervent defender of European integration, that the European Union and its Member States are not going any further in foreign policy cooperation. That's the call I'd like to make. I know that you are a convinced European and that you certainly share this observation. We hope that the European Union and its member countries will put as much dynamism in the common foreign policy as in digital and climate issues. That would be great. Thank you, Minister, and I would like to offer you my encouragement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u8	Madam Minister, the speeches in yesterday's plenary and in committee meetings on the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh show that the situation there certainly does not leave us unmoved. All of us, opposition and majority, have a warm heart to the people in need. But it takes more than being concerned and concerned. The military conflict seems to be frozen for the time being, except for some sporadic aggression from the Azarian corner, but it is only a matter of time before the conflict flares up again, especially after the statements of the President of Azerbaijan, who threatens to destroy the Armenians militaryly. The unclear international status of the Republic of Artsakh, the lack of recognition of its independent status and, in addition, the reluctance of the international community will ensure that Azerbaijan continues its policy of aggression. Belgium could take the lead in the first instance by establishing diplomatic relations with the Republic of Artsakh, but as far as we are concerned, one more step should be taken. Minister, you referred in your reply to the Minsk Group, but since there are sufficient historical reasons and convincing international judicial arguments for the Republic of Artsakh to regard it as an independent state, and the French Senate has already set a good example, Belgium may also have the courage to recognise the Republic of Artsakh as an independent sovereign state in the world as the first country in the world. In addition to protecting the civilian population and the Armenian heritage, that fact would be of enormous value to the Armenians in Artsakh, the Armenians and the diaspora, and we, as an ally in a just struggle, show our sincere solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u9	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I am pleased to hear that 600 Armenian remains have been returned to their families. The prisoners in both camps must be allowed to return to their countries and join their own. But, I have to tell you, I'm still particularly worried. At a time when tens of thousands of refugees from Nagorny Karabakh are surviving and unable to return to their homes safely, the Turkish President, on his way to Baku, is holding shocking and unacceptable remarks to the memory of the victims of the Armenian genocide and, on the other hand, the Westerns whom he describes as imperialists, while he himself makes his Turkish troops march in Baku. He presented the Turkish drones who had sat in Azerbaijan's military victory. At the same time, in his speech, he states that the struggle will continue "on many other fronts". I am pleased that you clearly condemn these facts. More than ever, international pressure must be exerted to bring Ankara back to reason in such a situation. Intensify all-out discussions to re-create a stable relationship with Turkey, which, I would remind you, is still part of NATO. The ceasefire and the 11 November agreement are in no way a final resolution of the conflict. The Minsk Group must define the contours of the future status of Nagorny Karabakh. It is up to the Minsk Group to do so, and on its own, regardless of the threats and ambitions of the current Turkish President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u10	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You're referring to the Minsk group. Having said that, we must note the failure of the Minsk Group over the past three decades. It can also be seen that Azerbaijan mocks the Minsk group. You read the words of President Aliyev, as I did: when the representatives of the Minsk Group arrived in Baku, he laughed at them and said that he had not invited them. If Azerbaijan were to put this group out of play, it would be necessary to find new political and diplomatic initiatives and to adopt a more convincing and firm attitude on the part of that group. As for President Erdogan's remarks, I must say that I expected a more firm answer from you. You speak of more than questionable and provocative words and you condemn them, but this is a new and extremely serious red line crossed by President Erdogan at the time of the European Summit. He knew exactly what he was doing and was saying at that time. He called for the continuation of the work done by his ancestors. I think these are unbearable words from any president and even more so from a NATO ally. I hope that in today's analysis by the European Union of the attitude to be adopted at the next European Summit in March, this new red line crossed by President Erdogan will be taken into account in the way in which we react. This is an extremely serious red alert. We know that President Erdogan is implementing his threats and that they should not be taken lightly. He did it for the Kurds. He did it in a whole series of situations. We must not take his terms lightly. I think that it is better to have a much stronger term and posture today than to suggest that these are words that could be discussed. When you hear it literally, "disputable" is what that means.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u11	Mr Dallemagne, we are not going to fight because I agree perfectly with you. I still hope that in my answer which lasted several minutes and where I sought my words by saying "more than questionable", we do not take this expression in the literal sense. "More than questionable" means it's a real problem. In the next sentence, I say that I strongly condemn these words. Frankly, making a trial of intent that I would not be alarmed enough or that I would not find them serious enough to condemn them, I think you are in error of appreciation. I know we're going to find ourselves on this path, Mr. Dallemagne, because we have the same conviction, but you understand that I can't let this unfold as if I had said that we could discuss what Mr. Erdogan had said. I didn't say that. I didn't think so. That is why I would like to interrupt you with great respect for your parliamentary work. As for a distortion of my remarks, I prefer to say things again in a clear way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u12	Minister, thank you for the clarifications that I appreciate. I was expecting a reaction from you because I really found that remark insufficient. You did well to clarify your remarks. I appreciate that we were able, through this exchange, to go further in the interpretation of your remarks. President Erdogan's remarks are extremely serious. In my view, it was very important that we could clarify your position in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u13	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - there are sufficient historical reasons for the Republic of Artsakh and convincing international legal arguments to regard the Republic of Artsakh as an independent State; - having regard to the fact that this political appreciation was made by the French Senate, which adopted a resolution on 25 November calling on the French Government to recognise the independence of the Republic of Artsakh; calls on the Government to recognize the Republic of Artsakh as its own, independent and sovereign state under international law." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - in view of the sufficient historical reasons and convincing arguments from an international law point of view to consider the Republic of Artsakh as an independent State; - when this political assessment emanates from the Senate of the French Republic, which adopted on 25 November a resolution calling on the French Government to recognize the independence of the Republic of Artsakh; asks the government to recognize the Republic of Artsakh as a fully-fledged, independent and sovereign State under international law." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u14	Madam Minister, my question concerns the conflict between the government army of Ethiopia and the forces of the regional government of Tigray. The situation there is still very alarming, including in the humanitarian field. According to the UN, nine million people could become dependent on humanitarian aid. There is also a great deal of uncertainty about the current course of the conflict. There are claims from the Ethiopian Government that the conflict would have ended, but that is strongly contradicted by other sources. The area is also closed off from communication, internet, electricity and telephony. There is a serious food crisis. Food aid is struggling to reach the people. The fear of famine is real there. A U.N. team was also recently shot at. Human rights organisations do not have access to the region. What was first a civil war threatens to escalate into a regional war, or has it actually become a bit. We need diplomatic humanitarian action to avoid further escalation. A humanitarian corridor from the Afar region to Tigray is also under negotiation. Meanwhile, the European Union has decided to suspend financial aid to Ethiopia for two reasons: alleged human rights violations and the blocking of food aid to the region. I have some questions about your position and what you think is still possible in the region. Firstly, has work been done at Belgian or European level to provide emergency aid? Secondly, are there any diplomatic initiatives that Belgium or Europe will take to de-escalate the situation? What is the state of play in this respect? Thirdly, is there any possibility for our country to take action in the UN Security Council? Are there any initiatives on the table that could force the humanitarian corridor, along with a cease-fire in that conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u15	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u16	Madam Minister, as has already been said, the situation in northern Ethiopia is becoming more and more grim and complex. It will be an international conflict, involving Eritrea and Sudan. Over the last few days, more and more reports have been reported that 96,000 Eritreans who have been living in refugee camps in Tigray have been seriously threatened. They are killed or kidnapped and forced to return to Eritrea under pressure from the Ethiopian army, where they are at great risk. More than 50,000 people have also fled from Tigray to neighbouring Sudan. Within Tigray himself, tens of thousands of people would be fleeing the war. In addition to military violence, there is also a problem of food security, due to the locust plague that causes 80% of farmers there problems. Diplomatic action is urgently needed to avoid a new famine and to avoid destabilisation in the Horn of Africa and thus to save thousands of innocent civilian lives. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, what diplomatic action is being taken to find a peaceful solution under the auspices of the African Union and the regional organisation of the countries of the Horn of Africa? Secondly, will Belgium, as a member of the Security Council, table a resolution on the humanitarian corridors, which are essential but not enough today? Among other things, the corridors from the nearby Afar region, which the United Nations and the Red Cross were able to open after negotiations, are unsafe and too limited. Thirdly, will our country within the European Union advocate offering all diplomatic aid to the African Union and Ethiopia in order to reach a negotiated solution? Fourthly, what actions are you taking to launch an international investigation into human rights violations, with the aim of bringing those responsible to justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u17	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, I am still concerned about the situation in Ethiopia. After all, there is still fighting and the humanitarian situation remains alarming. Since the beginning of the conflict, Sudan has absorbed more than 50 000 refugees. Many displaced Eritrean refugees in Tigray and other civilian victims still do not receive all the help they need. Since 6 November 2020, Belgium has been calling for immediate de-escalation and protection of its citizens. Since then, Belgium has also advocated an immediate ceasefire, respect for international humanitarian law and ensuring unlimited humanitarian access. Belgium also stated that it was alarmed by reports, such as Amnesty International's report, which reported misdeeds. Our country called for an immediate and independent investigation into the allegations. These are the messages that I sent here in Brussels on 24 November 2020 to my Ethiopian official, who was travelling around Europe. We have already discussed the subject during the discussion of the note which we discussed a few weeks ago. Our embassy in Ethiopia also had an exchange of views with the authorities on the conflict and recalled our position. At European level, on 19 November 2020, the European Commission released EUR 4 million for immediate humanitarian assistance to Ethiopia. During his three-day visit to the region at the beginning of December 2020, EU Commissioner Lenarcic pointed out that the signed agreement with the UN Aid Organisation is insufficient, as it is limited to the Federally Controlled Zone within Tigray. The European Union Foreign Ministers discussed the situation in Ethiopia on 19 November 2020 and 7 December 2020. On 7 December, I myself pointed out the importance of unconditional humanitarian access and a ceasefire. In the United Nations Security Council, Belgium, together with other European members, raised the situation in Tigray on 24 November and 14 December. At the Security Council meeting on 4 December, I took the floor on cooperation between the African Union, sub-regional organisations and the United Nations to express Belgian support for the African Union's initiative in favour of dialogue in Ethiopia. The timing for tabling a resolution to the UN Security Council must be carefully chosen, which should contribute to a positive outcome. At the moment, the views of the 15 Members are divided and it would be unnecessary to increase the tension if a motion for a resolution were tabled at this stage. In view of the urgency of the matter, it is essential to support the dialogue between the United Nations and the Ethiopian Government with a view to a compromise allowing immediate and unlimited humanitarian access to Tigray. In this context, I regret that the first agreement between them is not in line with international standards and subjecting access to humanitarian aid to conditions. The African Union's mediation efforts, like other efforts by African Heads of State, were unfortunately rejected by the Federal Government of Ethiopia. It considers the conflict in Tigray to be a purely national affair and refuses any foreign initiative. Sudan has announced its intention to organise a regional summit on 20 December and I support this initiative to avoid further regional destabilization, to engage in dialogue and to end the conflict. Finally, I would like to point out that Belgium mainly supports non-targeted multilateral flexible funds financially. These can be deployed quickly where the need is highest. For example, Belgium has financed agencies such as the United Nations Humanitarian Office, the Red Cross, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other humanitarian organisations. For more details, I invite you to contact Mr Kitir, who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is clear that you have already taken a whole series of diplomatic initiatives and have also had many contacts, including personally, both bilaterally and with the European Union and the United Nations. We would ask you to stick to the priority and attention you give to this and to continue along this path. A UN resolution can indeed be a coercive measure if it turns out that there is no willingness to do so through other channels, especially on the humanitarian corridor. Humanitarian access to resources is now the most important thing. The resources and many aid organisations are ready and the funds have already been mobilised to some extent. It is therefore absolutely important that a corridor can be created.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u19	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. I hear very clearly that the situation is of concern to you and that you have already made many efforts to contribute to a peaceful solution, both in your contacts with the Minister of Ethiopia, in your role in the European Union on 7 December, and at the United Nations meeting. In the United Nations, you tried to achieve a humanitarian approach and a peaceful solution to the conflict. It is therefore regrettable that the 15 Members are divided in this respect. I hope that agreement will soon be reached, because the people on the ground are suffering and there are a large number of refugees. The statement made by the Federal Government of Ethiopia that this is a national conflict has certainly been withdrawn. It has clearly become a regional and even an international conflict, for which we must make every effort, including in the coming weeks, to prevent it from escalating further. Humanitarian aid on the ground is indeed the first priority, which you and your colleague, Mr Kitir, will certainly have to continue to put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the conflict has been anaesthetized in Western Sahara for almost thirty years and, more specifically, since the ceasefire signed at the end of violent conflicts in 1991. But since 13 November, fire has again been exchanged between Western Sahara and Morocco. The situation is particularly disturbing and disturbing. One of my colleagues, Guillaume Defossé, has been following the situation closely for many years. It is known that the leader of the Saharawi independence movement, Ghali, decreed the cessation of the ceasefire after Morocco launched, on 13 November, a military intervention in Guerguerat, a border town in the extreme south-west of Western Sahara. We know this is an important passageway. But now we see that the conflict is somehow internationalizing, with President Trump, who has just unilaterally recognized Morocco's sovereignty over Western Sahara, apparently in exchange for Israel's recognition. I would like to know Belgium's position on the end of the cease-fire, both in the European fora and in the United Nations. Similarly, how does Belgium perceive President Trump's destabilising act? What is Belgium's position on the holding of a referendum on the right to self-determination of peoples, as appears to have been called for for many decades in Western Sahara? I would also like to know how Belgium supports the civilian populations in these territories, because, beyond the political conflict, there are obviously civilian victims who live in sometimes dangerous conditions in refugee camps. Why has the United Nations not yet appointed a successor to the former envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to Western Sahara, Mr. Horst Köhler? How does Belgium support the mandate of MINURSO? Do you think that MINURSO should have the opportunity in its mandate to ensure respect for human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u21	Madam Minister, on 10 December last, two tweets by Donald Trump announced, suddenly, the unilateral recognition by the United States of Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara, and then the conclusion of an agreement to normalize relations between Tel Aviv and Rabat. The first takes place in a context of increased tensions in that territory, following the breakdown of the ceasefire between Morocco and the Frente Polisario, signed in 1991 under the auspices of the United Nations. As for the second, it represents a further blow to a just solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by the outgoing administration of Donald Trump. If King Mohammed VI confirmed to Mahmoud Abbas the commitment, I quote, "permanent and supported by Morocco in favour of the just Palestinian cause", the latter, on the other hand, refrained from any comment at first. The method used in the "diplomatic troc" raises questions and is a new illustration of Donald Trump's purely transactional vision of international relations. This process damages the framework for resolving the conflict offered by international law and endangers the search for a lasting solution. Rebalancing must take place, and from our point of view, it requires recognition, in particular, of the State of Palestine. As far as our country is concerned, the government agreement offers this opportunity. I therefore come to my questions. Minister, how do you judge this double announcement made by Donald Trump on Tweeter? What information do you have from our diplomatic representation in Morocco on the situation in Western Sahara? We have been contacted by the Ambassador of Morocco to Belgium and Luxembourg who considers that this announcement is likely to facilitate the definition of a balanced agreement. What do you think? As far as the Palestinian question is concerned, do you not think and could we join in the idea that the time has come to make a strong gesture by embarking on the path of recognition of Palestine as being in the perspective of a rebalancing of relations and relations of power on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u22	First, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres and EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs Josep Borrell expressed concern about recent developments in the Guerguerat buffer zone. They stress the importance of continuing to respect the 1991 ceasefire agreement and our country aligns itself with their statements in this regard. It is important that the EU continue to support the efforts of the United Nations and the Secretary-General to find a political, peaceful and inclusive solution to this conflict. On the question of sovereignty, the Secretary-General's position remains unchanged and he remains convinced that a solution to the question of Western Sahara is possible, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 2440 and 2548, to name but a few. MINURSO plays an important role in reducing tensions, monitoring the ceasefire and supporting confidence-building measures. In the last vote for the renewal of the mandate of MINURSO, our country stressed the important role of MINURSO and expressed its concern at the increasing violations of the ceasefire. We have full confidence in MINURSO and its neutral role and call on all parties concerned to cooperate fully with it in order to avoid further escalation. At the same time, as you mentioned, Belgium has indeed advocated to the United Nations Security Council for the prompt appointment of a new Special Envoy for Western Sahara, so that the efforts of the former Special Envoy can be continued. I had already told you about this during the debate on the policy note. I also have a telephone appointment with Secretary-General Guterres tonight, and I intend to raise this point again with him. As regards the humanitarian dimension, the European Union has provided €258 million in humanitarian aid since 1993. In 2020, as part of European humanitarian aid operations, the European Union provided €9 million in aid to refugee camps. The World Food Programme has been active in refugee camps since 1986 and is responsible for the distribution of food parcels. We do not financially support projects in the Tindouf refugee camps, which is a province in southwestern Algeria, but the Department of Foreign Affairs is in regular contact with Oxfam, which informs us about its work and the situation in these camps. Furthermore, we encourage the parties to make the necessary efforts to ensure the protection of human rights and humanitarian conditions in Western Sahara as well as in refugee camps. We also welcome the Security Council's recommendations in this regard and continue to encourage the parties to cooperate more closely with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. With regard to the question on the announcement of the normalization of relations between the Kingdom of Morocco and Israel, I can confirm that, like the European Union, Belgium welcomes the resumption of diplomatic relations between the two countries. With the other standardization agreements, this announcement is likely – it is not an immediate and automatic consequence – to contribute to peace and stability in the region. However, it is true that these normalization agreements cannot obliterate the impasse in the Middle East peace process. Peace and stability in the region can only be achieved if a lasting and viable solution is found to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through negotiation, in accordance with international law and agreed parameters. We have once again referred to this subject, just two weeks ago, and I will repeat what I was able to say. Whatever the conflict, Belgium favours the primacy of international law, the path of negotiation and multilateralism. This also applies to the Israeli conflict and to the situation in Western Sahara. With regard to the recognition of the State of Palestine, Belgium will continue to support a solution based on the coexistence of two States, with the State of Israel and an independent, sovereign, democratic, one-tenant and viable State of Palestine, co-existing in peace and security. In principle, it is clear that the recognition of a Palestinian State is the corollary of our support for the paradigm of the two States, otherwise it would not make sense. The question, therefore, is not about the principle of recognition itself, but about the most appropriate time to do so and the configuration to be preferred in order to make this gesture. It is useless and counterproductive, in our view, to recognize Palestine if our country is not accompanied in this direction by a significant number of European partners. Such unilateral recognition would also have no impact on the peace process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you. It is true that there is a real upsurge in tensions and a violent conflict. I believe that Belgium must, of course, and as you have said, do everything possible to enforce the 1991 ceasefire agreement and at all costs avoid a further escalation. The countries of the European Union must stand alongside Morocco and the local civilian populations who have been suffering for many years from this conflict. I would like to stress that. Belgium's support for both MINURSO and the efforts of the new Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Western Sahara was important. Those efforts must count on ensuring respect for the primacy of international law and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u24	Minister, thank you for these answers. It was obviously feared that between the American elections and the installation of the new president, outgoing President Trump would engage in unilateral initiatives that were difficult to reverse and ultimately consist of a policy of fait accompli. What happened with Morocco is a new illustration. What happened in Iran is another example. It is therefore to be hoped that, by 20 January, we will not be confronted with other situations of this type because – and it is important to say so – these diplomatic barterings of which Donald Trump has made himself a speciality do not offer peace but the illusion of peace and are a form of deception which, in our view, destroys the foundations of multilateralism and common rules which should serve as a basis for international relations. Of course, these common rules are essentially based on international law. I would like to quote Jean-Paul Chagnollaud, professor emeritus of universities and president of the Institute of Mediterranean Research and Studies Middle East. He says: "In reality, these normalizations marginalize the Israeli-Palestinian question". So from the point of view of peace in the Middle East, it is rather counterproductive. "This announcement aggravates the imbalance between Israel and Palestine as the Hebrew state wins a victory without any concessions. Not only does the Palestinians not get anything from it, but on the ground, colonization has intensified in recent weeks." Given the challenge of recognizing Palestine as a State, you mentioned two conditions: the momentum and the commitment of other European partners in this direction. I want to say, momentum, if it's not now, when is it? What does it take for Belgium to perhaps start a European movement to move in this direction? In any case, we will no longer be able to content ourselves with reciting the speeches that have already been so for fifteen or twenty years. We're gonna have to change the registry and take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u25	Madam President, according to UNESCO, nine out of ten journalists remain unpunished in the world. These nine out of ten journalists are often local journalists. Contrary to widespread opinion, countries at war and areas of conflict are not the most dangerous areas for journalists; Colombia and Mexico have been the most dangerous countries in the world in recent years. The most serious violation of press freedom is, of course, the murder of a journalist. In addition to the loss of a worker in the performance of his or her duties, self-censorship becomes a quasi-automatic consequence on sensitive subjects. The phenomenon has also recently affected Europe, with the murders of Daphne Caruana Galicia in Malta, Jan Kuciak in Slovakia and Viktoria Marinova in Bulgaria. While a popular reaction has led to the resignation of a government and a substantive investigation in Slovakia, in Malta, the perpetrators of the assassination of Daphne Caruana Galicia, which took place several years ago, are still unknown. In Bulgaria, the murder of Viktoria Marinova was quickly classified as a mere sexual affair, unrelated to the corruption cases she was working on. With the desire to "end impunity", the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) has launched a campaign at the UN to raise awareness of the need to create an "International Convention for the Safety and Independence of Journalists and Other Media Professionals". Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following question: does Belgium, with its legitimacy in the field of press freedom, intend to support this convention at the level of the United Nations, along with 40 other States? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u26	Minister, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) has recently claimed that, since the first January of this year, no fewer than 32 journalists and press workers have been killed. A number in decline, but to relate to the health crisis that we are going through. In 2018, 80 information professionals had been killed. There were 49 of them last year. A decrease, according to RSF, could be explained by an increasingly smaller presence of journalists in areas of armed conflict. Threats and intimidation are reportedly increasing. For myself to have been a great reporter in many conflicts – Kosovo, Bosnia, Burundi and Rwanda – I know how essential this profession is as dangerous as it is dangerous and ungrateful, and during an exchange with your colleague Mr Clarinval, Mr Clarinval explained to me the many efforts you are making, particularly within the Council of Europe, the European Union and the United Nations, to promote and improve the freedom and security of journalists in the world. I thank you and am proud to live in a country that has made press freedom in the world one of its priorities. In order to address this worrying problem further, RSF has asked the UN to create a position of "Special Representative for the Safety of Journalists". Its incumbent would have the political weight, the ability to act quickly, and the legitimacy to coordinate United Nations efforts for the safety of journalists. Minister, have you heard this request? Do you think that this is a relevant request and that such an introduction could bring tangible benefits? If so, would Belgium be prepared to support this request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u27	In its foreign policy, Belgium consistently insists on better application of the existing universal human rights framework. At the United Nations level, a significant number of international legal instruments provide the main tools available to the international community in its fight for the safety of journalists and against impunity. These include the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention against Torture and Other Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. Furthermore, the special procedures of the Human Rights Council and, in particular, the Special Rapporteur on the protection and promotion of the right to freedom of opinion and expression and the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders also deal with the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press, including violations in individual cases. To make the implementation of the numerous legally binding tools and instruments more effective, a United Nations plan of action on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity was developed and approved in 2012. It aims to create a free and secure environment for journalists, media professionals in and outside conflict situations and provides a general framework for cooperation between all relevant parties, including United Nations bodies, national authorities, media actors and national, regional and international organizations. It should also be noted that since 2008, UNESCO has published a report every two years on the safety of journalists and the dangers of impunity. This report shall include the replies received from the Member States concerned on the judicial follow-up to the murders of journalists. Belgium supports these initiatives in the various UN fora, and our country also regularly asks questions and makes recommendations on freedom of expression, freedom of the press, the protection of journalists in the framework of the universal periodic review within the Human Rights Council. Of course, these issues are also raised in bilateral contacts. We therefore support the idea that led to the proposal for an International Convention on the Safety and Independence of Journalists and Other Media Professionals, namely that journalists need to be better protected from the various threats. However, the following conclusion should also be accepted: the current shortcomings in this respect are less of a normative nature than of a field nature. This means that there is no need to bring the existing provisions together in an additional instrument – we see that there are many. Instead, the priority is to make the implementation of these UN instruments effective, and it is precisely compliance with existing standards that can be improved, and we will continue our commitment to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u28	Madam President, I very much thank our Deputy Prime Minister, who confirms that for her and for the government of which she is a member, freedom of the press and the protection of journalists and therefore the rule of law – as you said, Madam Deputy Prime Minister – remains one of the foreign policy priorities. I welcome this message, which is a form of continuity with your predecessor Didier Reynders, who, at European level, was able to set up the rule of law and its annual inspection. This shows that by clinging to such an important issue and sticking to it, we reach the end of the line with a result. I agree with you that supporting a UN declaration is not enough, and we must go beyond it and ensure that the proposed measures are strictly enforced, and that the human rights rules are strictly enforced in the countries where they are violated. We count on you to continue to be this relay, this spokesperson and this effective vector of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your constant attention to the issue of freedom of the press and the safety of journalists. I believe that your support for the United Nations initiatives in this area is a valuable and concrete support for the exercise of this essential profession for our democracies. I encourage you, of course, to persevere in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u30	Madam Minister, metis children were subjected to social stigmatisation and sanctions in the colonial state. Among other things, the Belgian State ensured that these children were kidnapped and displaced. They often went to orphanages or adoptive parents in Belgium and have been fighting for family and administrative recognition for a long time. The Belgian Church and the then Prime Minister apologized to the community. In 2018, the Chamber of Representatives unanimously adopted a resolution on metis children. That resolution recognises the targeted segregation and the related policy of forced kidnapping of which metises were victims under the colonial rule of the Belgian Congo and Rwanda and Burundi until 1962 and after decolonization. This resolution contains a number of recommendations and requests to the Belgian Government. I am a member of the special committee on the colonial past and the association of metises of Belgium should also be involved. We are already trying to strengthen that commitment. Madam Minister, can you tell me to what extent the government has so far followed the recommendations of the resolution? What else will the government do about this? At the Rijksarchief a cell was established around the resolution and a phased research project is currently under way. What is the state of play and what is the timeline for the phased investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u31	Madam Secretary, I agree with that question. Reference has already been made to the resolution that I tabled on 29 March 2018 on the targeted segregation of the metises during the period of Belgian colonisation and the subsequent policy of forced abduction of which they were and are still the victims, as it continues to affect those concerned today. That resolution was adopted unanimously. A fairly emotional and solemn memorial statement also took place on 4 April 2019, when Prime Minister Michel apologized for the discrimination against colonial metises. He committed himself to the immediate restoration of the effects of discrimination, as mentioned in the resolution adopted unanimously. I was present at that celebration and can testify that this had a lot of impact, especially with the target group itself. There were 11 recovery measures. Quite a few of these remedial measures have been implemented. However, two specific measures still raise questions for the Metis group. There is no funding yet for the historical research section of the supplementary study of the General Kingdom Archive CegeSoma on the problem of Belgian metises. The cost is estimated at 1.516.304 euros. The FPS Foreign Affairs has already paid 400,000 euros to the Science Policy FPS, so that one could start the study of the "Archive" section. An additional budget of EUR 1.100.000 is therefore needed. Also, there is no memorial stone to perpetuate the memory of that painful history. The Metisses insist on these two measures. They're very sensitive to that, too. Madam Secretary, can you state the state of play on the two points? When will the funding for the study be available? What steps will you take to place a memorial stone to perpetuate the memory of that painful history?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u32	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, on 10 September the first sitting of the trial was held against the Belgian State, where five Métis women, like others under the Belgian colonial regime, were abducted from their families and placed in religious institutions. Between 14,000 and 20,000 Métis children were said to have been born during those years in the Congo and Rwanda-Urundi. They were almost systematically taken away from their parents and entrusted to Belgian religious in orphanages and residential schools. On April 4, 2019, in plenary session, the Prime Minister presented Belgium's official apology to the Métis from colonization and their families for "the injustices and suffering they have suffered". It responded to one of the recommendations of the resolution adopted by the House in March 2018. Last June, I asked your predecessor about the other requests in this document. He had given me a long, detailed answer as usual. However, it appears that there are some points that need to be clarified today, especially since the government agreement provides for the full implementation of the text. I would therefore like to know how soon the inventory and transfer of colonial archives to the General Archives of the Kingdom will be completed. What are the possible ways to finance Phase 2 of the CegeSoma study? With regard to moral and administrative redress, what are the objective criteria established for the "case-by-case" examination of cases? How can we explain that the stele project is no more advanced today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u33	On 19 March 2018, the Chamber of Representatives unanimously adopted a resolution on the segregation of which the metises during the period of Belgian colonisation in Africa were the victims. The Metissen resolution addressed 11 requests to the federal government. Since the accession of the new government, we have informed the government partners of the file and re-contacted with the association. As regards questions relating to civil status, the FPS Justice shall examine the applications submitted by the colonial metises concerned. To this end, a contact point has been set up whose address has been communicated to the persons concerned so that they can provide their individual files. It was proposed that the parties concerned should apply in advance to Child and Family and to the Central Authority of the Community to ensure that the files submitted were complete. As far as birth certificates are concerned, the Minister of Justice has begun an analysis. In order to ensure that all possible cooperation from the Belgian embassy and the diplomatic posts on the ground is available to those concerned, the department has also given instructions so that Belgian metises of colonial origin can receive assistance from our embassy and diplomatic posts in the identification of their African biological parents in accordance with the Belgian regulatory framework. That was the second request. As for access to the colonial archives, the third and fourth requests, I can report that the FPS Interior has decided to declassify its colonial archives and transfer them to the FPS Foreign Affairs. That transfer is in full swing. However, a large proportion of the archives must be treated as fungus prior to the transfer because of superficial deterioration. The transfer has also been delayed by the current health situation. We believe that the transfer of the archives that depend on the FPS Foreign Affairs Office will take a few more years, which does not prevent the documents from remaining accessible to the research project. The department is also in contact with other federal services about the declassification and transfer of the parts of the colonial archives that are in our possession, but which are legally part of them. As regards the access of the colonial metises to their personal files kept in the archives of the religious congregation in Rome, the fifth request, the Belgian embassy at the Holy See raised the question of access to the archives at the relevant religious congregation in Rome. The Congregation for the Evangelization of the Nations was asked to open its archives so that the metis children can find out who their biological parents are. It agreed in principle, on the understanding that the parties concerned must submit a written application, which will examine the services of the congregation. In addition, following the adoption of the meti resolution, a working group was set up and a research project was set up. That was in the sixth and seventh requests. The working group met several times in 2018 and concluded that the investigation into the segregation of the metises from Belgian colonisation will take place in two successive phases. Phase 1 of the project consists of creating a database of the individual, family and collective trajectories of the colonial metises. It started on 1 September 2019 under the joint direction of Foreign Affairs, which finances the research, and the General National Archives. The aim of the first phase of the research project is to provide the metries and their rightholders who request them with the reference of all identified files relating to them and their place of detention. The database should also allow the reconstruction of the individual and collective trajectories of colonial metises and of their family ties, which are sometimes broken. That extensive work is carried out in compliance with the privacy law and the law on the protection of personal data. The first phase of research should facilitate and prepare the second phase, namely a comprehensive historical study of the role of civil and ecclesiastical authorities in the treatment of metises in the colonial period in the Belgian Congo and Rwanda-Urundi. The financing of the second phase has yet to be decided. Now that the new government is in office and the first phase has begun, consultations will be held in the government. The research team has already made significant progress, including the progressive identification of records on the Métis of the Belgian settlement period. From the 9.5 kilometres of African archives, more than 2,000 individual and general records have already been identified. There has been the creation of a database and the progressive coding of data, the monitoring and processing of individual claims by Métis and their beneficiaries to examine origins, the development of a project website that will include an online application form and also serve as a communication point for the public and stakeholders. The federal government continues to encourage institutions and organizations to open their archives on Métis children transferred to Belgium. This is application number 8. As for the request to examine how, by moral and administrative means, the government can redress, on the one hand, past injustices to African mothers to whom the children have been abducted and, on the other hand, the harm caused to the Métis from Belgian colonization, claims for reparation will be considered on a case-by-case basis under existing laws. This is application number 9. As you know, the Prime Minister made a solemn and memorial statement at the plenary session of the Federal Parliament on April 4, 2019, and on this occasion, on behalf of the federal government, the Prime Minister apologized to the Métis of Belgian colonization and their families for the injustice and suffering they had to endure. With respect to the erection of a stele or any other physical memorial mark, this issue will be considered now that the federal government is in place. Finally, coordination has already taken place between the federal government and the federated entities, as well as with the FPS Justice, Kind en Gezin and the central community authority. This is demand 11. The FPS Justice also stated that it was available to collaborate in the CegeSoma complementary study. Similarly, following the transfer to the Kingdom's General Archives of the personal records of the previously displaced colonial Métis to the Tervuren Africa Museum, coordination has also been established between the Kingdom's General Archives, which hold the original documents, Kind en Gezin and ACC, which now have digitalized copies of these records. For those who would have forgotten it, I would remind you that at the time when I was Minister of Science Policy, I had initiated this matter myself because it is indeed important that one can be respected in his past and above all, for some, to be able to understand it better. In accordance with the Government Agreement of 30 September 2020, I stress that the federal government will support the memory work and, in particular, the implementation of the resolution-metis. I just demonstrated to you that, even if everything is not done yet, everything is on its way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u34	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. It is clear that the requests contained in the resolution did not fall on a cold stone and that the government is also working on them. It is also logical that the process is currently running. After the apology and the declaration of intent of recovery, of course, the clarification and the measures and action will follow. In my view, it is important that sufficient support and funding is provided on behalf of the government for the next stages, and that, above all, cross-policy action is carried out. Your answer is reassuring in that respect. There is an active dialogue with the Communities. We will continue to follow the file closely, along with the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. It is good that you have also discussed the 11 questions in the resolution. The various associations, which played a very strong and constructive part in the drafting of the resolution, at the time Minister Reynders was also involved - are very vigilant about its implementation. They have shown patience, because the then government was in current affairs. Nevertheless, they have already contacted us with the question of the state of play. It would be good if you would also receive them for consultation and consider the time frame for implementing the remaining recovery measures, including the second part of the investigation. I am pleased that you will also consult in the government. It is also important that you look with them at how things are done with the memorial stone, which nevertheless has a very emotional value for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for these answers and for this renewed expression of voluntarism, which is indeed very positive. I invite you, too, to continue this work – you have probably already planned to do so – and this commitment with the active associations on this subject. I would also like to take advantage of my reply time to draw your attention to the state of the archives. These archives will certainly be very useful in the pursuit of this work of memory and you know the deplorable state in which some of them are found (roasted by mushrooms, etc.). Of course, it is necessary to provide the necessary budgets to make these archives exploitable again and, therefore, to continue and complete this essential memory work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u37	Madam President, Minister, you have already touched on this issue in your policy statement and also in response to my interplay on the subject. But each time new elements emerge in connection with Hong Kong and in the pro-democratic struggle that rages on the ground. I will make the introduction to my question brief. You've also seen the introduction to my interplay. On the ground, democracy is constantly being trampled on. The influence of mainland China is getting three-star and harder. It also ensures that there is currently an exodus of Hong Kong citizens who apply for a British passport and thus try to escape the threat that is currently raging. All these new elements, following the introduction of the new Chinese Security Act, ensure that the situation on the ground remains extremely precarious. I would therefore ask you once again to clarify the current situation, to see whether the Belgian Government can take further steps or to consult the EU with a view to sending a strong signal to all the parties involved, including the international bodies, governments and ambassadors. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u38	Minister, on June 21, 2019, thousands of demonstrators gathered in front of Hong Kong police headquarters. Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam, the leading figures of the pro-democratic protest movement of 2019 in Hong Kong, have been imprisoned. The local government uses the offence of "incitement to protest" to justify the prosecution of persons who have only expressed and demonstrated peacefully under the Hong Kong Ordinance on the maintenance of public order. This incarceration is a warning from the authorities to all those who dare openly criticize the regime. In addition, the Hong Kong Ordinance on the Maintenance of Public Order has long been pointed out as non-compliant with international standards and considered as a means of suppressing the civil liberties of the people of Hong Kong. Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam are not isolated cases. More than 10,000 people were arrested in total in connection with the 2019 protest movement and more than 2,000 were prosecuted. Added to this are additional charges against these three activists. Indeed, as a result of their participation in other gatherings defending democratic values, convictions are likely to accumulate and it is impossible to know at this time when these young people will ever be released from prison. What is the Belgian government's position on these arbitrary arrests? By what diplomatic means can Belgium act to defend Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam? To what extent can Belgium and the European Union sanction this Ordinance on the maintenance of public order which is not in conformity with international standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said. It is indeed about the situation in Hong Kong, about the controversial security law that was introduced and what followed it, including the pro-democratic opposition members who were expelled from parliament, on which all democratic Members of Parliament then resigned. By making patriotism a legal requirement for the members of the Hong Kong Parliament in future, it is possible for the Chinese parliament to dismiss Members directly, without the intervention of a judge. As a result, China is de facto restricting Hong Kong's autonomy. The principle of 'one country, two systems', which I know you are defending, is becoming more and more questionable. What will you do about this? You have said it before, but do you insist that China systematically harms the principle of 'one country, two systems'? In what ways has Belgium in the meantime expressed its concern about the events in Hong Kong? Was this also discussed with other European countries? Are you thinking of taking specific measures or sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u40	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, as I indicated in reply to previous questions on the implementation of the Security Act in Hong Kong, the erosion of Hong Kong's autonomy and freedoms has continued since the adoption of the law on 30 June 2020. The arrests of pro-democratic citizens are an example of this and recently the independence of the judiciary is increasingly under pressure. Like Mr. From Smet, it is the Hong Kong Ordinance on the maintenance of public order that is used to justify these arrests. The use of this order makes it possible to prosecute persons for acts prior to the adoption of this Act. Moreover, this is part of a strategy of intimidation of the authorities because the prosecutions based on the new law will be more severe and will take place in conditions more unfavourable to the accused. In addition to the violation of fundamental freedoms that it represents, the new security law violates China's international obligations to respect the 'one country, two systems' principle and, as you know, support for human rights defenders is an integral part of our foreign policy and a priority that we continue to insist on. Our country has also called in relevant multilateral forums for respect for human rights in Hong Kong, including respect for freedom of expression and association. Belgium also intervened during China's universal periodic review in November 2018 on this topic and recommended that steps be taken to ensure that human rights defenders can exercise their freedom of expression and association. Since the implementation of the law, as in previous incidents, Belgium has also supported the statements made by the EU states. The competent authorities in our country will also continue to implement the conclusion of the European Council of 28 July on Hong Kong. In the course of 2021, the European Council will assess the effectiveness of these measures. The EU has made the discussion on human rights a precondition for the resumption of a strategic dialogue with Hong Kong. The resumption of the human rights dialogue with Beijing, which was interrupted as a result of the pandemic, is also a priority for 2021. On a bilateral level, there are fewer contacts at a higher level due to the pandemic, but my services regularly raise our concerns with the competent Chinese authorities, both in Brussels and in Beijing and Hong Kong. Our attention is now also focused on the follow-up and defence of the rule of law in Hong Kong.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It remains a very precarious situation. You confirmed that, too. The continuing violation of human rights and democratic rights on the ground calls for more than what is currently happening. The measures taken, the regular mention and the identification of the problems seem to be inadequate. For us, these measures must be strengthened and expressed very clearly. That is why I asked you, in my interview, during the discussion of your policy letter, to call the Chinese ambassador to account here. You have said that you have spoken to him, but I would ask you to include this in the Beijing policy that puts this government first. I would ask you to continue to share your concerns and ask that human rights and democratic rights be set out everywhere in the world. I also ask this government to publicly condemn the violation of human rights and democratic rights of citizens in Hong Kong in all international fora. I'm sure I'll follow up on this case further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your extremely clear language on this issue. The drift of the authorities in Hong Kong is real and challenging and must be denounced on an ongoing basis. Only concerted and continuous pressure can bear fruit in such a case. Belgium has its own place. I trust you in this matter, as well as in our diplomacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u43	Madam Secretary, I know that the rule of law and human rights are close to your heart. I am counting on it, and I am sure that you will take the necessary steps here too and make the necessary pleas, both at European and international level, to show that the current situation in Hong Kong and China's attitude on this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u44	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55011255C, 55011257C, 550111258C and 550111259C by Mrs Ponthier will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u45	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Professor Djalali's case was discussed extensively at last week's plenary session, if I am not mistaken. So you know the situation. I will certainly not repeat them, but refer to the written question I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u46	What is the current state of affairs, however? Where are we? What's the situation on the ground? What contacts have you made recently? What was the result of those conversations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u47	Madam President, Minister, I do not need to explain the situation of Professor Djalali. Parliament adopted a resolution unanimously. You are certainly aware of this too. I'll be very brief. My questions are also about the state of affairs. What diplomatic steps are you taking to save him? After all, he's still innocent in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u48	Minister, I refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u49	I would just like to point out that, for many observers, Professor Djalali's condemnation is a retaliatory measure and an attempt by the Iranian regime to pressure the Belgian judicial and political authorities to release their diplomat, who is currently being tried in Antwerp. Iran's state terrorism and its attempts to intimidate our democratic institutions as well as the death sentence for imaginary crimes by Professor Djalali are obviously shocking and totally unacceptable. Minister, I join my colleagues in asking you what your diplomatic initiatives are. Have you strongly protested against Iran to refrain from any attempt to attack abroad and to intimidate our institutions and residents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u50	As you have heard from the media, Dr. Djalali's case has accelerated in the past week. There were first reports that he would be placed in isolation and then transferred to another institution, where his death penalty would be executed. The last relocation has not yet taken place, but Dr Djalali's situation remains very serious and worrying. Both myself and my services in Brussels and Tehran are following Dr Djalali's case very closely. As you heard on 2 December, I had telephone contact with my Iranian fellow foreign minister, Mr Zarif. I gave him our position on the death penalty in clear terms. I have also argued in particular that Mr Djalali's death penalty should not be enforced. Prime Minister De Croo also sent a letter to Iranian President Rohani calling for the death penalty not to be imposed by Mr Djalali. Previously, my services had interviewed the Iranian ambassador and, of course, called for the death penalty not to be carried out. We also asked the services of the European High Representative Borrell to send a clear message on this matter to Iran. Furthermore, our embassy in Tehran met Mr Djalali's sister and lawyer to get a final update on his condition. The situation is really being closely monitored diplomatically by Belgium, you will not disapprove of it. As regards the potential link established by the press between Mr Jalali's case and the trial of an Iranian diplomat in our country, I repeat what I said in plenary on this subject, namely that Belgium is a state governed by the rule of law. The principle of separation of powers was essential, and the judiciary must do its work independently and without external influence. I have nothing to add on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u51	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, of course you are quite right to follow it closely, but it remains painfully clear that the Iranian regime is playing a very dirty game with our government, among other things. On the ground itself, it is a country which does not take any account of human rights or citizens' rights. We have to deal with this very carefully. We therefore question the diplomatic openness that is being discussed. All well and good when fighting with equal weapons, but that is not the case in the case of Iran at all. We therefore ask the federal government to accept its responsibility and to assess future contacts with Iran and to assess the relationship with a strict Islamic regime such as Iran. In our group's view, this cannot be treated as a normal country. Everything stands and falls with that fact. We must not assume that we are fighting with equal weapons here. We also hope, of course, that the matter can be brought to a successful conclusion. I am counting on you, on behalf of the government, to make all possible diplomatic and other efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u52	Madam Secretary, I am glad to hear that you are following this closely and checking everything. That's the only way. We can put pressure on you, but I just need to ask you something. This is something very serious. You also know that last week the journalist, Ruhollah Zam, was executed in Iran. He was in France, too. So they actually take the citizens of Western European countries as hostages if they don't get what they want. That is why it is very important that we also raise this issue at European level. You are in the right place, together with your colleague and party colleague, Mr Michel. You can also tackle it at European level and much wider. They're not gonna stop the execution machine. That's why all these innocent people are in prison. If one can ever achieve something like this on a broad scale, it would be a real achievement for those people and for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for your response and for your diplomatic efforts, which I fully support. I think that this threat of execution must of course be taken very seriously, knowing that a French journalist has just been hanged by the Iranian regime. I will therefore support any initiative that would make it possible to get this professor out of prison, and I also appreciate that you insist that no intimidation of our judicial, political or parliamentary institutions is acceptable from any country, and from Iran in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u54	Question No 55011273C by Mr. From Smet is postponed. Questions Nos 55011276C and 55011277C De Maegd is transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u55	Mr President, in response to your questions, I can tell you that the situation on the ground remains fragile. Street tension remains palpable. Calls for demonstrations are regularly launched by the opposition, of which several members are currently imprisoned. Belgium strongly condemns the violence and abuses committed by any perpetrators, including those committed in this post-election period. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Belgium regularly coordinates with its partners in the Council on the situation in Guinea. The United Nations is actively engaged through its Special Representative for West Africa, Mr. Chambas. Its report is expected by the end of December and will be followed by a debate in early January. According to my information, an investigation into the electoral process is not on the agenda. In this course, priority is given to dialogue. Belgium continues to call for full clarification of these events and stresses the importance of supporting Guinea on the road to political stability and transparency. The European Heads of Mission based in Conakry in the Belgian mission also finalised a report on the local situation, including recommendations discussed in early December within the European Union's Africa Group. Political dialogue, governance and the fight against impunity are thus the priorities of the European Union's future relations with Guinea. Our country fully supports these priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u56	Thank you for that answer, Minister. I'm counting on you to follow this situation closely. As you know, there is an important Guinean community in Belgium, which follows the unrest that is taking place there. It is therefore important to find solutions for stability, transparency, the return of the rule of law and the end of violence. It seems to me very important to follow all this closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u57	Mrs. Rohonyi is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u58	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, according to a communiqué of the CAL, taking advantage of the proclamation of strict confinement, the Hungarian authorities have recently adopted constitutional changes consolidating the place of religious conservatism in the legal order. As soon as Tuesday, steps were taken to ensure that Amnesty International Hungary, through David Viq, its director commented as follows: "It is a dark day for human rights and for the LGBTQI community in Hungary". These amendments to the Constitution stipulate that "the mother is a woman, the father is a man" and that "Hungary protects the right of children to identify by sex". Opposition to the recognition of the rights of transgender people and the adoption by same-sex couples acquires constitutional value, at the same time as the European Commission adopts its first strategy for equal rights for LGBTQI people. In addition, the Constitution will specify that "Hungary protects the right of children to education in accordance with Hungary's constitutional identity and the system of values of Christian culture". This follows a 2018 amendment, which makes the "protection of Hungary's constitutional identity and Christian culture" an obligation of every organ of the state. The inclusion of religious principles is contrary to the principle of secularism and neutrality of the State and the root of discrimination against persons belonging to sexual and gender minorities. Moreover, the use of the rhetoric of "child rights" is particularly shocking, while the government's goal is to limit their rights, in particular their right to education, including sex education based on science and not on religious prejudice. According to the NGO Freedom House, these constitutional changes are accompanied by the growing authoritarianism of power, which has pushed Hungary into the category of "partly free" countries. Minister, can you confirm this information? What does our diplomacy say on the spot? The vote took place on Tuesday with regard to the Hungarian Constitution and the amendments I am referring to. Do you discuss these obstacles to secularism and state neutrality with your European counterparts and, if so, what position do you stand for?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u59	Mr Lacroix, thank you very much for putting this issue on the agenda. Indeed, I can confirm that on 10 November last the Hungarian authorities carried out a 9th amendment to the Constitution, which was itself dated to 2011. Acts of discrimination against LBGTQI people in Hungary are indeed a major concern for our country. The situation is closely monitored by the Foreign Affairs Department in Brussels and through our diplomatic post in Budapest. Following the introduction of these amendments, our embassy in Budapest quickly joined a joint declaration in favour of equality and non-discrimination made by diplomatic representations of countries that share the same vision. The European Union is certainly the most appropriate vehicle for ensuring the protection of the rights of all (and of LGBTQI) throughout the Union. Belgium therefore fully supports the EU in its efforts to combat homophobic violence, discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender characteristics. The European Commission is closely following developments related to respect for the rule of law in Hungary. The Article 7 procedure of the EU Treaty was already initiated against Hungary in September 2018 and allows for regular monitoring and dialogue on these issues with the Hungarian government. A statement of the matter was presented by the Commission in its proceedings at the General Affairs Council on 22 September, where a firm position was expressed by the Member States and the institutions. In the context of a joint Benelux intervention, Belgium also reiterated its support for the Commission in its role as guardian of the Treaties and guarantor of the fundamental values of the EU. The EC also presented on 12 November the first ever EU strategy for the equality of LGBTQI people in the EU and the EU Court of Justice has already condemned Hungary in cases related to the rule of law and fundamental rights. Furthermore, the Regulation establishing the mechanism for the protection of the European budget against Member States violating the principles of the rule of law has been the subject of political agreement and is expected to enter into force soon. Belgium has taken a strong position throughout the discussions in favour of a robust and effective mechanism to combat anti-democratic drifts. I also add the possibility in the peer review for Member States to participate in the analysis of the rule of law in each of the different countries. It will also be an opportunity to raise the issue. I share your concerns, the indignation over what is happening in some EU countries. I recall that those who wanted to be part of this union entered voluntarily and with full knowledge of things. Full knowledge is based on compliance with Article 2 of our Treaty, which guarantees equality and non-discrimination. So I am always surprised, interlocked and shocked when we try to circumvent what is one of the fundamental foundations of our union. I really share your indignation and thank you for bringing this subject to the agenda. This is not an easy situation for a Member State. Perhaps when it comes to a Member State, we must be all the more able to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u60	Madam President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her full commitment to the service of human rights and in particular to the service of LGBTQI people. Madam Minister, you have spoken with your reason, your European commitment, but also with your heart, and it is therefore a pleasure to see that there are rulers who have this human feeling in the body. Like you, I find it regrettable that there are states that are partners in a European project, but they are actually punctuating what is right for them, without adhering to the basic values that have done and which make the European project. In addition to the economic project, there were, as you recalled, strong values of humanity, international law and human rights. We really need to pay attention to what is happening in Hungary, as you have said. Indeed, in May, taking advantage of the state of emergency, President Orbàn also passed legislative amendments that prevent transgender or intersex people from being recognized, which is a real tragedy for these people. I will allow myself, quite personally, to say that the regime of Viktor Orbàn navigates in the total hypocrisy and the greatest tartufferie. One of his MEPs was surprised in flagrante delicto to commit an unacceptable fact by violating the rules of covid established in Belgium and in Brussels in particular, by being also homosexual, and by having such practices, which is obviously not condemnable at all. But it is the hypocrisy of this person and of this regime that is condemnable. This regime establishes laws and rules against LGBTQI people while some of the people in this regime are part of it. It's tartuffery and it's a nameless hypocrisy. It disgusts me and revulses me; I wanted to say it. I know that you share my opinion and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u61	I think that many people agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u62	Madam Secretary, I understand you can be here until noon. Then we'll close the session here. On behalf of the committee, I wish you and your family a happy and healthy year-end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a happy and healthy year at the end of the year. We will have to face the situation as it is and keep a lot of courage. It is with great friendship that I say good-bye and very soon in full shape.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic318x.u64	Thank you very much, Minister.
