ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-18-55-commissie-ic304x.u1	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your attention today. Mr. Secretary, 'they forgot us', 'is nous ont oubliés'. Peter Mertens wrote a book about that. It is also the message I get from the employees at the airport, a cri du coeur of the airport staff. I have heard many poignant stories; unfortunately I cannot share them all with you. During the first corona wave, the airport was often discussed here in Parliament. Everyone was talking about the economic importance of the airport: Zaventem as the second most important economic pool, accounting for 24,000 direct jobs and 40,000 indirect jobs, with an annual added value of 3.2 billion euros to the Belgian economy. However, the social importance of the airport is not reflected either in the Government Declaration or in the Minister of Mobility's policy statement. No social, sustainable and ecological future plan for the aviation sector in Belgium. A missed opportunity, a misapprehension for the thousands of employees at the airport. However, we are facing the biggest crisis in the history of the airport. Today our national airport is in the dark red, because of the ongoing corona problem the airport family is hit hard. The water is on the lips of the companies and the many thousands of workers. In July we tabled a resolution with many proposals and solutions. I'd like to raise three issues. First of all, the jobs. The first wave has already given a heavy blow, 1,500 Swissport employees have been put on the street like 'dirty'. Their material was put in garbage bags and threw their clothes on a pile, most of them haven't even gotten all their personal stuff back yet. Do you know how these people are doing now? Of those 1,500 employees, Alyzia, the new baggage dealer, took over 150 people, although with an interim contract. I'm talking, among other things, about bagagists, people working on the check-in. The clean-up people are employed by Alyzia under sub-contracting with Aero Services. I'm sketching the short story of Koen, a daddy of four children. Since 1996, he has worked at the airport. He's been through two bankruptcies, first Sabena, then Swissport. He had a passion for the airport. He was tired of school and started as a low-skilled worker and worked himself up as a servant. He worked shifts, worked weekends and holidays to get that extra. Now his wife also lost her job and their income is just one third more of what it used to be. He worked 24 years to be treated in such a way. He is 43 years old, feels written off and can no longer pay his invoices and fixed costs. That's the situation. I'm holding my heart for the next round of dismissal. There are more than 300 companies operating at the airport Brussels Airlines, Alyzia, Aero Services, Autogrill, LSG, Lagardère... Several companies are in restructuring. At Lagardère, for example, 170 people were fired. At Interparking, 64 of the 94 employees are fired; however, BAC is a shareholder there. There is also talk of restructuring at Autogrill. So, Minister, we must do everything we can to save the jobs. We therefore support the proposal by the trade unions who were present at a hearing to draw up an airport statute with a pool for workers. This way we can ensure that people are not fired. A second proposal that we want to make to save the jobs is in line with the measures for the catering industry. The rents will then be suspended on conditions that the companies do not fire. This way we can keep the jobs and bridge the winter. For example, at Autogrill, 30 percent goes to BAC and on top of that they still have the rental costs. For Lagardère the rent is a greater cost than the staff cost. At Interparking, 52 percent of the proceeds go to BAC. We could keep the jobs with this. Brussels Airport has made a lot of profit in recent years. The last five years were 293 million euros of profits and 92 million euros of dividends were distributed in 2018. According to Mr Feys, there is still no financial problem for the time being. It would therefore be a good thing if Brussels Airport were to respond to this. A second major problem is the income of the people. After all these months, a lot of workers are three-quarters of the time on unemployment. Do you have any idea what this means to people? For example, at Brussels Airlines, I heard a story about a stewardess who has to live with barely 1,000 euros a month. The problem with these people is that they have a very low basic income. If they do not fly, unemployment benefit is based on that basic income. The premiums they obtain if they fly are not taken into account. I've heard stories from people at Brussels Airlines who have to go to the OCMW and to the Food Bank because they don't make ends meet. Very often they're single women. Wages are very low in many companies. Because people work shifts and unemployment benefits are calculated at 70 percent of gross wages, people lose a lot of pay. For others, this is between 500 and 800 euros per month. If you don't mean anything, a lot of people are gonna end up in trouble. We have put forward a proposal to bring income to 100% if people fall back on technical unemployment. We hope you can continue in this direction. Finally, a final point on the safety and health of workers at the airport. I don't know if you've seen the footage of the fall vacation where the passengers were very close together at the airport. That was a problem during the first wave. At that time, many Members had to intervene in order to ensure that Brussels Airport organised the necessary security. That didn't happen back then. Now we see a pair of trousers during the second wave during the autumn holiday of the same sheet. I've been asking people about that. The stewards of G4S, who have to ensure that everything is managed properly, have been left on unemployment. Those people were therefore unemployed while there was a lot of work at the airport during the autumn holidays. At G4S, BAC did not indicate how many staff they needed during the autumn holidays. The luggage tyres were blocked because there were too few staff. The cleaning services are being saved. Locals are being shut down, so people are closer to each other. However, we know that in many companies there are still many infections of corona. So this was not a good turn from Brussels Airport. That is why we have a number of proposals. The first proposal was also requested by the trade unions. That is the demand for coordination at the airport. Everyone's asking for that. A coordination in the airport around everything that is security. This coordination must be joint, the companies and the trade unions must be in it together with Brussels Airport. A second proposal concerns the very good system of testing people at BAC. It would be good if BAC put that system at the service of the staff working at the airport. For all these reasons, we have tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-18-55-commissie-ic304x.u2	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Vindevoghel. It is true that the airport sector is one of the most affected sectors. This sector has already taken huge blows. 24,000 direct and 40,000 indirect jobs are rightly feared as this sector will be characterised by huge revenue losses in the coming months. Indeed, airports are important economic development poles of strategic importance for employment. The aid granted by this and the previous government has already given all the attention to aviation activities. I would remind you of the support package for Brussels Airlines and the continued recognition of the sector since March for the system of temporary unemployment due to force majeure. In the meantime, that last measure has been extended to 11 March 2021 and extended to all sectors. I would remind you that, following the government's decision, workers in the sector with many days of temporary unemployment can also benefit from a supplement to the end-of-year premium paid by the RVA. In addition, my departments closely monitor compliance with the rules of the Renault Act in the case of restructuring, so that employees' representatives can play their full role. The mediators of my administration are also available to play their accompanying role and I am willing to work with the social partners on specific support measures or sanitary security measures (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-18-55-commissie-ic304x.u3	Mr President, Minister, you have not really answered some of the proposals that we are putting forward. We need solutions today. There are restructurings today. You're referring to the Renault Act, which is probably about layoffs. We therefore ask that an initiative be taken from Brussels Airport to ensure that, in addition to the issue of the large rental prices for the companies, a system is being developed at the airport to maintain the jobs. That's what we're asking. I do not think you are making a very ambitious proposal to meet the staff. As far as technical unemployment is concerned, I have just explained that there are people today who really live in poverty, who have to go to the OMCW or go to get food packages because they do not have 1,000 euros. The technical unemployment benefit, which people can already use today, is too little. People can't live on that. It's about a lot of single women. That's a big problem, isn't it? We believe that we really need a structural solution for the entire airport community, for companies and for workers. Hence our motion. I hope that we can go a little further than what you are proposing here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-18-55-commissie-ic304x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - whereas Brussels Airport's activities account for 24 000 jobs; - whereas the entire aviation sector is in a deep and structural crisis; - whereas several restructuring plans in the aviation sector are in progress, running or already in progress; - whereas at present there is hardly any public control at the national airport; - whereas poverty among workers is also rising at Brussels Airport; - considering the wave of temporary unemployed since March 2020; - considering the current health crisis; - considering the unsafe situation at the airport, on busy days, with regard to corona contaminations for passengers and staff, asks the government - to increase unemployment benefits for airport staff up to 100% of the basic wage including the performance premiums of an average month from 2019; - to establish a coordination cell between BAC, companies active at the airport and the social partners with a view to ensuring safety for passengers and staff; - to make the covid-19 test centre at Brussels Airport available to all airport staff free of charge; - an airport status for airport workers with a pool to protect the jobs and to prevent social dumping, by analogy with the port status; - to suspend the rent paid by third parties to BAC during the corona crisis, provided that the beneficiary does not delete any jobs." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - Whereas Brussels Airport's activities represent 24 000 jobs; - Whereas the whole air sector is undergoing a structural and profound crisis; - Whereas various restructuring plans are under way or are already being implemented in the air sector; - considering the near absence of public control, at present, at the national airport; - Whereas poverty is on the rise among working people in Brussels Airport; - Considering the wave of temporary unemployment since March 2020; - Considering the current health crisis; - considering the danger of contamination with coronavirus to which both travellers and staff are exposed on days of high attendance; asks the government - increase the unemployment benefits granted to airport staff up to 100 % of the basic salary including the average monthly benefit premium in 2019; - to set up a coordination unit between LAC, the companies operating at the airport and the social partners in order to guarantee safety for passengers and staff; - to make the VOCID-19 test centre at Brussels Airport free of charge to all airport staff; - to create an airport status for workers working at the airport, by analogy with port status, as well as a pool to protect employment and combat social dumping; - suspend the obligations with regard to the rent owed by third parties to LAC during the crisis of the coronavirus, provided that the beneficiaries do not remove jobs." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Prévot. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
