ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 November in Leuven Willy Kuijpers, former Member of the Chamber, died. He was 83. As a young teacher, Willy Kuijpers ended up in the Flemish movement through the youth movement and the cores for the promotion of the generally civilized Dutch movement. He committed himself to the Volksunie in local politics, and was elected city council member in Herent in 1970, a mandate he held until 2016 for forty-six years! The Court of Justice of the European Communities held that the Court of Justice of the From 1983 to 1988 he was mayor in Herent, and from 1995 to 2012. Willy Kuijpers sat in the House on the benches of Volksunie for the district of Leuven from November 1971 to June 1984. In this Assembly, he has been most prominent in the fields of education and development cooperation. Characteristic of Willy Kuijpers' political commitment was a combination of militant Flemishism and social movement, of popular nationalism and commitment to political and general-social emancipation. It was that conjunction that led him to travel around the world from the 1970s to act for peoples and minorities such as the Basques in Spain, the Eritreans in Ethiopia, the Kurds in Iraq and the Kosovars in Yugoslavia. Elected to the European Parliament from 1984 to 1989, Willy Kuijpers was one of the authors of the voluminous report on the languages and cultures of regional and ethnic minorities in Europe. He served in the Senate from 1989 to 1995, and from 1995 to 1997 he completed his national political career as a member of the first Flemish Parliament elected by direct suffrage. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with Willy Kuijpers we are losing a warm, united and socially motivated politician who was popular on both sides of the political spectrum. But we also lose in him an ever modest and generous man, who did not hesitate to receive refugee children and other people in need in his own home. Willy Kuijpers really offered everyone his listening ear and his actual commitment. To his family and loved ones, we offer our deepest condolences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we salute the memory of a man who has marked his community and all those who have met him, a deeply popular man who has accompanied the Flemish movement in recent decades. It is very difficult to comprehend Willy Kuijers' life in a number of sentences. Willy Kuijers was a hard worker, a convinced Fleming and European, pacifist, non-conformist and progressive. He was a man of and for the people, widely respected in Parliament and far beyond. The number of anecdotes about Willy Kuijpers' special life cannot be counted. They will leave a lasting impression of commitment, humour and social reflex. On behalf of the government as a whole, we would like to extend our deepest condolences to Willy Kuijpers' family, political friends and relatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u5	Madam President, Minister, this morning we learned that Belfius, our bank to all, our public bank, would close fourteen branches of its network in 2021. This is an announcement that comes two days after ING's announcement, which will close sixty-two agencies next year. No less than 40% of banking agencies have closed in ten years! This is a problem for many citizens who increasingly have to take the car and drive many kilometres to access basic banking services. Mr Minister, I therefore want to question you about what I call "bank desertification", which is a major problem for our citizens. This is a problem for older people and those who do not have digital skills. This is a problem for those who see their financial autonomy greatly diminished. I also want to talk about employment. Despite a profit of €6.2 billion in 2018, the banking sector is undergoing ongoing restructuring. In this sector, nearly 12,000 workers have lost their jobs in ten years. My questions, Minister, are then the following, knowing that the disappearance of agencies poses a major question to support the real economy. ING and Belfius indicated that they would close agencies but that no job losses were foreseen. Do you confirm this? Which agencies are involved? More broadly, what actions will be taken by this government, to which you belong, to remind banks, and in particular our public bank, of their societal responsibility to offer citizens, the real economy, traders, self-employed and SMEs a true supporting role?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u6	Madam President, honourable Member, thank you for your question. Indeed, ING announced the day before yesterday the closure of sixty-two branches of its own network in 2021. Today, as you have said, it is Belfius who intends to close fourteen of the five hundred non-ante-five agencies she still owns in Belgium. According to the contacts I have had with the management of the two banking agencies, no loss of employment should occur since the various employees of these agencies will be offered transfers to other agencies or to other functions and other roles within the respective banks. Banks have all opted for a growing digitalisation of their services. It was an important phenomenon before the crisis of the coronavirus and it accelerated during this crisis. In my view, this is an irreversible phenomenon, but one that should be accompanied. Indeed, as you mentioned, if the digitalization of our economy has benefits, its negative consequences such as the digital divide must be at the centre of our attention. For my part, I believe that Belfius, as a bank wholly owned by the State, by the public authorities, must be exemplary on this subject. The shareholder of Belfius must put the issue of the digital divide on the board table and bring concrete solutions. Important steps must be taken to ensure that everyone has access to banking services. To say that Belfius didn't do anything would be wrong. Indeed, it is worth mentioning an interesting initiative by some banks, including Belfius, in the face of the sharp decline in bank distributors throughout the country, particularly in rural areas. As you know, these banks are currently working on the implementation of a new network of ATMs, a common network, via the Batopin structure, to ensure better coverage of banking services throughout the country. This initiative is important, but it is not sufficient. Care must be taken – the government will do so – to ensure that banks guarantee universal banking services to all their customers, especially the most vulnerable, those who are far away or who do not have control over digitalisation processes. This will be a priority for me and for the government in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u7	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer and thank you, above all, for reminding you of a very important point. Banks have a societal responsibility: the responsibility to support the real economy and to provide a quality service, accessible to every citizen. That's true for all banks. But this is especially true of ours, our public bank. I have heard here your call for the ownership of Belfius, which is wholly owned by the Belgian State, to make the bank exemplary on the subject. That's an important statement from you. You are also announcing a priority project for 2021. We will support you in your action. I think digitalization, automation and digitization of services is a plus. But until now, the digitisation of banking services is the destruction of jobs, it is the weakening of consumers, and it is to deprive consumers of the imprescriptible right, in my view, to be able to pay in cash. We will therefore be there to support you in your work within this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u8	Mr Minister, it is the Brexit week: next Sunday is the new deadline and today we are already seeing concrete consequences with traffic jams in Calais and the stuck port of Zeebrugge. It is a fact that the Brexit will have a huge economic impact on our country. The only question that remains is: how big will the consequences be? That will depend on whether there will be a deal, yes or no. What has the government done already? Minister Verlinden has said that we are operationally ready, but we are still seeing long traffic jams. By the way, we see that transmigrants are taking advantage of that to climb the lorries, but I understand that one more question will be asked about this this afternoon. We do not see in the budget any federal economic support measures. What's your plan? After all, it didn't come unexpectedly. What could partly alleviate the significant economic consequences is a good deal or a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. But while this is becoming increasingly clear, Walloon Prime Minister Di Rupo considers it necessary to declare that he is prepared to block the free trade agreement. That is the position of the Walloon Prime Minister. Minister, what is the federal government's position on good free trade agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u9	Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your question, because it is indeed the week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u10	In preparation for a no-dealbrexit, the law adopted on 6 March 2020 provides for a number of measures allowing companies hard hit by the Brexit to temporarily reduce the volume of work without redundancies. This is an extensive form of temporary unemployment for economic reasons, a specific form of time credit and a temporary collective adjustment of working time. On Tuesday, 8 December 2020, an amendment to the law was adopted in committee, allowing the King to determine the date of entry into force and the end date for the proposed support measures. This will enable a political choice to be made when the emergency measures come into force. The FPS Economy has established a Brexit portal as a central gateway to all relevant information. There are also well-known checklists for companies, the Brexit Impact Scan and the recommendations of the European Commission before the end of the transitional period. Additional staff have also been recruited to monitor the market. There is also a contact centre for the companies. I will conclude with the role of the European level. Firstly, it will be important to start the process for the European contingency plan if there is no progress in the negotiations this week. Secondly, it is important to discuss the Brexit Adjustment Reserve (BAR) quickly. The BAR funds should go to the most affected Member States and take into account the situation of our SMEs. The Bar will undoubtedly play a greater role in the case of a no-dealbrexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hear you mention all kinds of measures here, but we find nothing of them in the budget, as is the case with the government. Next week we will have the budget talks and I look forward to seeing where you will find the efforts. At the moment when we are faced with the concrete importance of such free trade agreements, we hear Walloon Prime Minister Di Rupo saying that he wants to block the agreement. You didn't go into that, and I'm sorry about that. We have a very open economy and one job on three depends on exports. What the hell does Mr Di Rupo want with this? Is it perhaps just another round of pestering Flanders, all the more so since Flanders accounts for 82% of Belgian imports and exports? In the delivery of weapons to Saudi Arabia, he apparently sees no problem. Minister, I sincerely hope that the federal government will recognise the importance of good free trade agreements. They are important for our economy and prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u12	Madam President, Madam Secretary, "In Brexit there are countless deadlines but few deals." That's what we read today in Politico. From deadline to deadline with no chord in sight. The Prime Minister of Great Britain then travelled to Brussels himself in an attempt to reach an agreement in the last minute, as in a football match, where a last-minute change should still lead to a profit. The sp.a is for trade agreements. They are important for our prosperity. We are in favour of trade agreements if they give us the opportunity to support our values of fair work, environmental protection and shared prosperity. The possible future trade agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom is one of the most important trade agreements that the EU can conclude, especially for Belgium and especially for my province of West Flanders. It is clear that our country will have serious economic consequences if it does not succeed in concluding the agreement. At the same time, we must ensure that unfair competition does not make the damage much worse in the future. A level playing field, especially with regard to social rights and the environment, is important. Madam Secretary, do not let the pressure on an agreement cause harmful consequences. We must have the courage to choose the long term rather than the short ones, including for our companies. That is why we must also opt for fair trade and not unfair competition so close to home. How far will Belgium allow the European Commission to make a deal with the United Kingdom? What are our red lines as a Member State? What concessions is Belgium prepared to make in the field of level playing field and fisheries?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u13	Madam Minister, while Brexit is not officially on the agenda of the European Council that is opening today, this issue is nevertheless a subject of negotiation and concern on both sides of the English Channel, both economically and commercially and politically. You know our commitment to maintaining strong and friendly relations with London. We understand the extreme difficulty of these negotiations. Do you see, Madam Minister, the firmness and unity of the 27 Member States behind Michel Barnier? Do you not consider that, in this last straight line, theatricality outweighs the content of the last questions to be decided? More specifically, can you give us, as we speak, the state of progress of the ongoing talks, and the points that you are particularly attentive to? You are aware of the concerns expressed for our exports to Britain, and for the fisheries sector. In the event of an agreement or even a non-agreement, can you confirm to us that the legal soundness of the agreement of 17 October 2019 which entered into force on 1 February 2020 is long-standing, particularly as regards the rights of Belgian residents in the United Kingdom? In the event of an agreement, and even more so in the event of a non-agreement, our country is one of those which, unfortunately, will have the greatest economic impact. You have invested with determination in the creation of a fund dedicated to the absorption of the Brexit shock. What is the status of its activation and concrete effectiveness?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u14	Madam President, Minister, we are approaching the end of a special year. This means that the end of the Brexitsaga is also approaching. It is a good thing that this chapter is finally completed after almost four years. However, the European Union and the United Kingdom have still not been able to agree on their future relationship. It is true that the British take back control is going completely out of control. Even after the dinner between Prime Minister Johnson and Commission President von der Leyen last night, the water was still too deep to finish. Further negotiation is therefore the only option available. The uncertainty and the increasing risk of a no-deal weighs on our companies, on our fishing industry, on our transporters. It weighs on our ports, which traditionally have a good relationship with the United Kingdom. I am thinking in particular of Zeebrugge. It weighs on those thousands of employees involved. Everyone needs clarity. It is very positive that the EU is preparing a no-deal. A number of emergency measures on aviation, road transport and fisheries have been proposed today. Whatever the future will bring, it is very good that that future is being prepared. Madam Minister, what emergency measures does Belgium intend to take in the event of a no-deal, in addition to the measures announced by the EU? What about the Brexit Adjustment Reserve? Our fishermen would be entitled to compensation. What has been done in this area? If a compromise is found, let us hope so, will it be ratified in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. We are in the final stage, but we do not have the prospect of an agreement at the moment. According to our information, you know this too, the negotiations will continue until Sunday. There are three more stumbling blocks: the level playing field, the dispute resolution mechanisms and the fisheries debate. A lack of agreement will have an effect on the movement of people and it will have to be addressed. We already know that a no deal will cause three types of consequences. First of all, those who wish to travel from 1 January will be able to do so, in principle for three months without a visa requirement. Second, Belgians who have lived in the United Kingdom for more than five years will be able to use the Settled Status, so that they can continue to live there. Finally, those who wish to continue their stay there, even though they do not have this proof, will have to meet the special requirements of the UK Immigration Act from 1 January. One of the problems still before us is indeed fishing. If no agreement is reached, Belgian fishing vessels will lose the right to fish in British waters, as they will be sovereign again. The Belgian fishing fleet consists of about 60 vessels with about 400 fishermen and a large processing industry which provides about 2,500 full-time jobs. The sales value of fishery products is around EUR 40 million per year, but the impact of a Brexit without agreement would be very difficult for industry, half of which is caught and thus half of its value is achieved in British waters. There was also the question about the Brexit Adjustment Reserve. You know that Belgium has really fought, federated entities as a federal level, for this €5 billion Brexit Adjustment Reserve, including a share for our country. We have asked the European Commission to know the details of this Brexit Adjustment Reserve, because it is obviously in the details that we will see whether Belgium and the countries most affected by a Brexit without agreement can benefit from it. We still do not have the texts, which is a difficulty; but we can understand the Commission, which wishes to know what the ins and outs of a deal or a no deal will be before we finish this text. What is certain is that with every intervention by Belgium – and for my part, I did it again on Tuesday at the General Affairs Council by reciting this Brexit Adjustment Reserve – we insist that it is the hardest hit countries that must be able to benefit from this Brexit Adjustment Reserve. In addition, we also stress the peculiarity of the Belgian economic network, i.e. the importance of SMEs. What's the way forward? The question is whether we should conclude this agreement at all costs. I believe, to paraphrase Michel Barnier, who quoted Pierre Mendès himself, that the future should never be sacrificed to the present. It is, of course, one for twelve, but we must continue to be patient, constructive and determined and take the time necessary to reach a good agreement. After all, our common future with the British is at stake. I do not rule out the possibility that we might even have to consider a period without agreement. Technically, it is of course possible to conclude a trade agreement with the United Kingdom after a transitional period if necessary and if there is a will on both sides. Of course, I still have faith in a solution. We have until Sunday to know the agreements. Let me remind you that three stumbling blocks remain. However, some developments are possible. The parties express themselves publicly with force, and this is not abnormal in negotiations. I know that everyone considers that the guidelines are systematically postponed. For my part, I prefer them to be so rather than to reach a bad agreement. I keep my confidence in the negotiators. Of course, on Tuesday, we strongly called for emergency measures, because we must stand ready for a no deal. In this case, the energy connection, transport and social security will be affected. That is why we must move very quickly in this direction, as I repeated again on Tuesday at the General Affairs Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u16	Madam Minister, I understand that you cannot or do not want to answer publicly the question as to where the red line for Belgium lies. My group has made its position clear in the question. I agree, of course, with colleagues that it is really important that we be ready to deal with the consequences, regardless of the outcome of the negotiations. Our position is strongest if we know what to do, regardless of whether the deadline of Sunday is working or not. I would ask the government to remain in close contact with all the authorities involved, the Länder and the provinces, as well as the sectors themselves, ports, fishermen, the transport sector. After all, they will need your support more than ever, no matter what the outcome. In the negotiations, of course, we depend on the other parties, but we can only look at ourselves in order to distribute the money to cope with the consequences of the Brexit. Twenty days before the deadline it is more than time to clarify the distribution of the Brexit Adjustment Reserve. It is up to you, Madam Secretary, to see to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear your wisdom and patience. But I also hear the impatience of European citizens. Colleagues, remember, the British "to be or not to be" had been decided at the Brexit referendum four and a half years ago: fifty-four months of lively discussions, two steps forward, three steps backwards... More than four years of endless meetings have given rise to so many summits just as crucial as each other. In short, the play continues, but it must be recognized that William Shakespeare does not want to. Boris Johnson seems to me to be more the actor of a bad vaudeville with, unfortunately, in the background, a real psychodrama that is being played – as you recalled, Madam Minister – that of our SMEs, of our fishermen, of our economy which will be one of the most impacted by this Brexit with the figure mentioned of 42,000 job losses in Belgium in case of non-agreement. On October 15, 2020, I said here enough is enough! Could we remind the British that, in order to seal a deal, before the hour, it is not the time and, after the hour, it is no longer the time. In other words:too late is toolate. The comedy has lasted long enough for many citizens, failing which the vaudeville of Brexit risks becoming a tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very full answer. After four and a half years, we're running out of time. Clarity is necessary for everyone. It's been long enough. I know that our Belgian diplomacy, and everyone involved, is hard at work for the affected sectors. You clearly confirmed that. We therefore encourage you and your services to further promote Belgian interests at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u19	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is 10 December, International Human Rights Day. And on this International Human Rights Day, human rights in particular continue to be violated by a great democratic country. I am of course referring to Julian Assange, who is under solitary confinement in Belmarsh's high-security prison in the United Kingdom, from where he may be extradited to the United States, where he faces up to 175 years in prison. According to the UN rapporteur on torture Nils Melzer, since the beginning of the proceedings, his rights have been systematically violated. His health is deteriorating and he has all the typical symptoms "of prolonged exposure to psychological torture". If the British Government were to be in favour of extradition, it would be the fundamental principles relating to freedom of the media, freedom of expression and the right of the public to access information that would really be threatened. There is therefore an urgent need, Madam Minister, for Julian Assange to be protected as a journalist and for his qualities to be recognized, moreover, as a journalist and not as a whistleblower. And we're not just any country. Since 1830, Belgium has been known – by its Constitution of the time – to be particularly welcoming, particularly fair in the defence of freedom of expression and opinion. We have welcomed I do not know how many literators, from Rimbaud, Verlaine, Hugo to Karl Marx. Therefore, our voice here counts! Switzerland reiterated its call on the UK authorities not to extradite Mr Assange to the United States because of serious human rights problems: does Belgium also intend to express its concern to the UK government? How does the Belgian Government simply react to Mr Assange's conditions of detention? Would we be prepared, if necessary, to grant him not asylum but a humanitarian visa to allow, then, an asylum application? In addition, in October 2019, the European Union adopted a Directive on the protection of whistleblowers to be transposed by Member States. Does Belgium intend to make rapid progress in this transposition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u20	Mr De Smet, thank you for your question. It was true that the United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture had issued a statement in which he referred to the isolation of Julian Assange as arbitrary detention but also torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading elements. Julian Assange is an Australian citizen. The United Nations Special Rapporteur's statement is addressed to the British authorities, and it is of course up to them, too, to respond first. The United Kingdom, where Julian Assange is held, is a democratic country that respects the principles of a rule of law. It has an independent judiciary and there are internal controls necessary to guarantee a right to a fair judicial procedure. These procedures are obviously subject to appeal. But it is true that we must not hide our face. Detention in solitary confinement is a particularly harsh measure, with no one in the long run denying it, a potential impact on health, particularly mental health, which is important to the inmate. Various multilateral mechanisms exist to address such cases – I do not like to use this term because it is a person, and a life, Julian Assange's. At the international level, this case can be dealt with by different multilateral mechanisms. First, the United Kingdom is a member of the Council of Europe and in so doing is a party to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Council of Europe has effective mechanisms to ensure and monitor respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, including conditions of detention. Indeed, the Council of Europe has a platform to strengthen the protection of journalism and the safety of journalists. And Julian Assange's situation was the subject of an alert from the European Federation of Journalists. The United Kingdom is also a party to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. States parties must report regularly to the Committee against Torture. The United Kingdom has recognized the competence of the Committee to receive individual complaints. It's also a possibility. You know that Belgium is also engaged in various forums for the protection of whistleblowers. [[I heard the distinction between whistleblowers and journalists.]] You will not fail to note that I have addressed this issue as well. It is true that Belgium, to date, has not met with the United Kingdom, or indeed with the United States, which is requesting extradition, but I do not exclude, depending on developments, from addressing this issue in future bilateral contacts that we will not fail to have with the United Kingdom. You know that the question of Brexit will also be an important subject which I intend to address very quickly. If I may, Madam President, because you said so, it is indeed International Human Rights Day and I would like to reiterate Belgium's commitment to respect for human rights. I think that today, more than usual, we must think of these women and men, whose human rights are not respected in the world, whether they are imprisoned or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, Britain is a friendly country. She'll stay that way even after Brexit if we reach a deal. Irrespective of that, friends, you can tell the truth. We can have a much stronger speech. Switzerland dares to do so and also does so, as other countries will eventually do, because there is indeed a political ingredient in the equation. You have rightly recalled the British procedures, the fact that Britain is indeed a member of the Council of Europe, that it has an extremely elaborate system of law in terms of the protection of human rights, but on 4 January, it is the British justice system that will tell the government whether or not it can do so – and we fear that it will do so – extradite Mr Assange. It is the British government that will have to make a decision that will have political content. Mr Assange must, of course, be protected as a journalist, but he is not his only person. You have, indeed, said that his isolation was a case of proportionality with regard to the facts alleged against him, but it represents much more than himself. It represents the right of access to the media and the dissemination of information were they sensitive and brought by other whistleblowers. This right must be protected. I thank you for taking advantage of your bilateral relations with Great Britain to remind you firmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u22	Madam President, you see that we are in a real Parliament, but this is another life! Mr Minister, we have heard that this week you met with your Luxembourg counterpart, Finance Minister Pierre Gramegna. On this occasion, agreements have been reached on various issues, and we are very pleased with them, particularly on telework. However, an extension to all categories will have to be discussed again. Unfortunately, an important and urgent issue for our communes has not come to a conclusion. For us, it's catastrophic. This is the compensation fund for border communes. Many frontier workers reside there. They pay all their taxes in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In many of our municipalities, whether Attert, Etalle or others, between 50 and 60% of the workers are employed in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This to tell you that, for us, communal managers, it is very important. This fund is therefore a fair return for our Belgian border communes. Minister, can you tell me why there was no agreement on this? Can you also tell me a little more about the blocking element? When are you going to renegotiate to find a deal? What agreement are we going to reach? As I say right away, our communes are only waiting for one thing: the continuation of the mechanism that has been under way for almost twenty years now. This is a matter on which I regularly intervened in the 1990s in the same assembly. I did not expect to have to re-interact on this in 2020. I look forward to your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u23	Madam President, Mr Arens, thank you for your question, because it gives me the opportunity to inform you of my meetings with Luxembourg Prime Minister Bettel and his Finance Minister Pierre Gramegna. These exchanges took place in a very good atmosphere. Of course, different files are on the table and are on the agenda. One of them concerns the subject that you mentioned – as Mr Piedboeuf did in other circumstances. I understand that this issue is considered to be of great importance by the border communes. I am therefore pleased to be able to inform you that a positive follow-up has been given to our interview. My Luxembourg counterpart has agreed to lift its objection to financial compensation for 2019 and 2020. In addition, we agreed to assess the existing agreement in order to stabilize the issue over a longer period of time. I am therefore pleased that a solution has finally been found to a problem that has persisted for some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer, especially since you are announcing a longer-term stabilization. For us, it's essential. I heard that the next meeting would be held in La Gaichel. Don't hesitate to let us know, so that we can welcome you properly, since La Gaichel is a few hundred meters from our communes. Thank you again, Minister, and invite you to continue on this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u25	Mr Minister, today we are organising the first funeral of one of Vivaldi's great principles, namely fair taxation. At the beginning of Vivaldi both sp.a, Green, Ecolo and PS ensured week after week that the strongest shoulders would bear the heaviest loads. The Vivaldists assured me that with this government the richest 1% would finally contribute its share. That was promised and repeated, but instead of a capital tax there was a security tax. In the beginning, Vivaldi still pretended that the security tax was the same as a capital tax. Exactly a month ago, I asked you why you exempt the shares in your name from tax and why you exempt the biggest fortunes from tax. The biggest fortunes do not work with securities accounts, but with registered shares. The Council of State has made us right. Their opinion states that "in particular, the question arises as to why a very similar financial instrument, namely registered shares, is not subject to the same tax." This government responds to the Council of State that "if shares were taken into account, the obligation would arise to subject all other capital components to the tax and the legislator would be indirectly forced to introduce a general capital tax, which is completely contrary to the intention of this government." So the government doesn't want capital taxes. That's not her intention. What is the intention of this government to achieve fair taxation, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Mertens, for your question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify a number of things and to reassure you. You have a number of concerns. A first concern is that this tax would exclude the multimillionaires. Well, Mr Mertens, I hope you are a little more aware of the composition of capabilities. You should know, and you know that, of course, these assets are now mainly placed in legal entities and, above all, in legal structures. Those are just two categories that we do sign with these securities accounts tax. These are two categories that have been added to this tax. To say that the multimillionaires have not been taken into account, I think to be honest, very brief. The second point you make is that we should not add resources to social security. That remark was indeed made by the Council of State. That is not possible for legal and technical reasons. But of course we will look for an alternative solution to make that possible. Of course, the Council of State made a number of other comments, including on the threshold and on the anti-abuse provisions. For the sake of clarity, those anti-abuse provisions were not used there to say that people should not have a securities account or that people should not have a securities account of less than EUR 1 million. No, it's about the fact that people shouldn't come up with creative solutions to not have to pay the tax, for example through a split. We just made sure the back doors were closed. We've just made sure that escape routes are sealed off. I think you should at least be pleased that we have included this. I therefore hope that this will reassure you. Finally, I always said in committee and a month ago in plenary that we would wait for the opinion of the Council of State and that we would start with the feedback from the Council of State. Today is the Council of State's opinion. A number of comments have been made. We shall begin with these comments. I am sure that we will soon be able to respond to this within the government, and I shall be happy to return to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u27	Minister, the Socialists and the Greens are talking about a capital tax, the Liberals are saying that it is not there, and you are talking here to ensure that all this is compatible on the one hand and on the other. The truth is, however, that the Council of State has said that this is not a capital tax. Don't call them that. You are rejecting the opinion of the Council of State, which says that it is not a capital tax or a solidarity contribution. What is it, then, Minister? I'll tell you what, it's an ineffective tax. This government has announced with a lot of bombs that it would finally appeal to the most wealthy in this covid crisis, but in the end it comes up with an ineffective tax. The solution is obvious, namely the removal of banking secrecy and the introduction of a real capital tax, a millionaire tax. That should be clear and fair. I hope that tomorrow you will have the honesty to address the richest effectively in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u28	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this year is nearing the end of the transitional period for the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. It's gonna be exciting days and hours to see if it's gonna be a hard Brexit, or if a deal's gonna be reached. However, it is already certain that various new customs formalities will apply from 1 January, as will other rules on VAT and excise duties. The European Commission has already calculated that there will be an increase of 14% in import declarations for Belgium, while export declarations would increase by 47%. For our companies, which are already in a very difficult situation, it is important that all this can happen smoothly, without delay, because delay is an obstacle to enterprise and also costs money. That must be taken into account. For Belgium, the port of Zeebrugge and the port of Antwerp are of course in the front line, but the procedures and approach in other countries also have an impact on our companies. Think of the current traffic jams in the French city of Calais. It is logical that this impact is significant, as more than 6,000 movements take place every day from the mainland to the United Kingdom. The impact is therefore very large and the Brexit will be a fact from 1 January. Many companies are worried and ignorant of what awaits them. Mr President, what measures have been taken to facilitate the transition, both in terms of staff and equipment? Is there cooperation in this area with other countries? What initiatives have been taken with regard to the companies themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u29	Madam President, Mr Matheï, thank you for your question. I was standing here four years ago with my first question, which was also about the Brexit. I remember that in my intervention I was hoping that people would change their minds and that there would be a maximum soft Brexit. Today we are closer to a no deal and we would be happy if a hard Brexit came out of the bus. That means we've had four years to prepare. My predecessors have already made a lot of investments and preparations. I am thinking, among other things, of the additional recruitment of staff or the provision of additional resources to control the borders. There have been a lot of information campaigns, a call centre has been set up, there is a website, the companies have been informed as much as possible. This has also resulted in the application and the allocation of 25,000 TAIL numbers. An town and country code is a number necessary to fill in customs forms. This at least proves that the information campaigns have worked. Now, of course, we do not know what will bring 1 January. Of course, we are very well prepared, but unforeseen circumstances can always occur. There is also a great deal of consultation at the moment between the National Crisis Centre, the police, the food agency and you name it, so that it all goes as smoothly as possible. You also referred to Calais. I would just like to point out that this has nothing to do with customs problems, but with the fact that many companies still want to make the effort to transfer their goods, with capacity problems at Eurotunnel. I'm getting out of the country now. There is, of course, regular consultation with those countries which have the same problem as we do. This is about the Netherlands, France, Denmark and Ireland. We are trying to do so in the most coordinated way possible. We have also carried out an outreach project to the Member States of Eastern and Southern Europe to inform them of the Belgian procedures. To conclude, I think we are very well prepared. Of course, we do not know what will happen and what will be decided, but at least we are prepared, also for unforeseen problems. If these problems occur, we will resolve them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. It is quite clear that both your predecessors and yourself and the current government have taken and will take a great deal of action, both in terms of staff and equipment, including information campaigns and the setting up of cooperation with other countries, which you will contact. In this way, I think that government and companies together can face this new situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u31	Mr. Secretary, never before have so many people felt mental pressure like this. In this corona time, more people more than ever are truly dependent on themselves, without distractions, without too many people close by. It does something to people, especially on dark days, for some even with serious consequences. However, mental health care is too often not yet a solution. People don't find help or have to wait far too long for it. This is evident from a study published today. When we see a broken leg, it is clear what needs to be done: healing, recovery, without asking ourselves who should pay for it. Invisible wounds, on the other hand, are too often ignored. One pretends that treatment is an option and not a necessity. In many municipalities and in many social services we see the direct consequence of this: people who are no longer moving forward, who are trapped in their situation, without any prospect of improvement. This has consequences: not only does it cost to treat a lot of money later, but it also costs an unnecessary amount of human suffering. It is precisely in the first line that a great deal of suffering can be spared. Young people are certainly the victims of this: a year waiting for an eating disorder, a half-year waiting time for mental problems and a quarter of the parents indicate that there is no room for their child during a crisis. It shouldn't be in a rich country like Belgium. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. The government agreement announced that the government would invest significantly more in mental health care, up to 200 million euros. Of course, we are satisfied with that. It is money that can have a direct effect if it is effectively deployed. How do you respond to the long waiting lists investigation? How will you use this substantial investment to shorten the long waiting lists? [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u32	Mrs. Vanpeborgh, congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u33	Minister, I can imagine something in the world of young people. I myself am the mother of two teenage daughters who have to miss their sweet sixteen this year, who can no longer go to the scouts, who also have to miss the nightlife that makes their young student life so interesting. Our children are well framed, but what does that mean for children and young people with psychological problems? The corona crisis is hacking into these young people harder. For them, social contact is as important as food and drink. It's like what's missing. Young people become adults in interaction with others. So it is very bad that we have to note that one in two minors, if they are already looking for help, cannot actually go anywhere and have to wait six months to a year for therapeutic help. If someone has cancer today, that person will have immediate surgery or chemo. That's right. What the mental health care and the state general have established today is actually hallucinating. Waiting weighs on a family. Complaints get worse and problems escalate. Minister, we all want a warm society in which everyone feels well. Therefore, more investment is needed in affordable and refundable mental health care, in mobile teams that come home easily. We need to recognise more mental health workers. The psychological consultants and the therapists should be able to be used. We also need to involve mental health workers more in the RIZIV. We must also give them a voice in policy. Those are the questions of the States-General today. These have also been Parliament's questions this year. The vote was almost unanimous. Minister, what will be your approach to those long waiting lists today? The policy statement provides for an additional €67 million. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u34	Madam President, Minister, I am of course joining colleagues in saying that mental health care is extremely important and that we have already taken great steps. Your press communication this afternoon actually caught up with our questions. You will take great steps to support psychological health care for students and entrepreneurs. That's absolutely good news. In this second lockdown we can all actually use psychological support. We need it. Much more important than the good work you announced this afternoon is the need for perspective. Minister, our students need support, but much more they want, as they enter the block, a prospect of a party, of a festival summer. Our entrepreneurs also need those eight free support psychological conversations that you will offer them, but much more they want to open up their business. So this vaccination is absolutely important. The date of 5 January is engraved in our agenda. We have great expectations. However, I wonder why the level of ambition of the government is so low. Why are you going to vaccinate only half of the target population before the summer? I hear Joe Biden in the first hundred days of his term of office, he hasn't even been sworn in, and he could vaccinate a third of the Americans. Why can our country, the country where the vaccines are produced, no longer use that vaccination? Our neighbors say they'll get group immunity before the summer. Will we be able to get that, too? Finally, what about the shots? Have they been ordered yet? When will they be delivered? Shall we have enough? If we want to offer perspective, if we want to support mental health, we really need the vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u35	Minister, you will have five minutes to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u36	Indeed, we agree that mental health is becoming increasingly important. Many people do indeed have injuries that are not immediately and perhaps never visible, but which are significant and sometimes get worse. There must therefore be mental health care available, which must be accessible and affordable to all. This is a responsibility not only at the federal level but also, very important, at the level of the communities and regions. We also work together with our colleagues from the communities and regions. There was already a first important investment at the time of Mrs Onkelinx, especially in the so-called mobile teams. Mrs De Block then made additional efforts, including the first development of first-line psychological support and even more investment in mobile teams. Everyone sees, however, that the needs are so enormous that we have to make very important additional investments. This is a top priority for the current government. We are paying EUR 200 million extra for investments in mental health care. The corona crisis makes everything even more compelling and urgent. A lot of young people are having a hard time. I am deeply convinced of that. I hear, hear and read that, too. The crisis is extremely difficult for young people. That is why we have already decided to convert this EUR 200 million budget into EUR 112 million in concrete policies, with psychological first-line support being developed. We are doing this on the basis of an agreement that we knocked off with our colleagues from the regions and communities on 2 December 2020. I'm working on this right now. Allow me first to repeat why this is so extremely important. It is not enough to say that we invest more in mental health care. That concern really needs to be organised in the first line. It should be linked to what general practitioners, school doctors and OCMWs do. That is extremely important. This is the commitment of the first effort of EUR 112 million, namely that people get support quickly enough and do not wait for their wounds to get worse and worse to end up in real deep crises. Accessible, accessible and quickly available, these are the key words. We have had a first meeting today with those who will be present on the forthcoming Transversal Agreement Committee of the RIZIV. They, too, have said that we need to put extra emphasis on young people and children, because they are faced with extremely serious problems. We have promised that we will discuss it this afternoon at a meeting with representatives of our colleagues from the regions and communities. We are working intensively with the people who will form the transversal agreement committee. A meeting with them is scheduled this year and I hope that we will be able to conclude the consultation in January. This means that the RIZIV Insurance Committee will then be able to shape a so-called convention, in which funding for the roll-out of first-line psychological support has been developed from the beginning of next year. To my liking, all this is getting going too slowly. We've already accelerated the process and can't go any faster. The system now needs to be rolled out gradually. If you spend the EUR 112 million in full, you can finance almost 2,000 full-time units, people who will offer first-line psychological support. That is a great effort. It will take time and the offer will not be there immediately; we are certainly trying to take all the necessary steps with great urgency. You have stressed once again today that this is necessary. Mrs Depoorter referred to the specific problems of self-employed workers. The federal government has decided that there will also be specific actions for the self-employed, but the concrete form of these actions still needs to be determined. So I won't say another word about it today. She also mentioned the vaccination. Allow me, Madam President, to say something about that, even if I did not expect that question. We are on the European train; we are getting our share of all vaccines delivered in Europe, on the basis of the contracts concluded by the European Commission. So we always get our share and will never be disadvantaged against the Netherlands, France or Germany unless we say we don't have to do something. The United Kingdom is working outside the European Union. That's another story. But we will never be disadvantaged against other countries. The idea that we would lag behind on other countries or that we could do less in the summer than other countries has no basis whatsoever. However, this is an important one, but the speed of the European vaccine delivery train depends entirely on the producers. I'll take the first one to come up, Pfizer. Initially Pfizer said it could deliver 25 million doses for Europe by the end of December. In the meantime, it is known that this is not feasible and that there will be fewer. So all European countries will feel that effect. Since 25 million doses will not be available by the end of December, all European countries will receive a little less vaccines than they initially expected. But that is the responsibility of the producers. This does not lead to major problems for us; only we have to adapt to the rhythm with which the production comes. If the Dutch and the Germans have to adapt to the rhythm with which the production comes, and you have undoubtedly read that in the press, so have we. But we shall not be harmed or favoured over others. That is why I have always been extremely cautious in this matter and I remain so. We are ready to start on January 5. That is the instruction given, and we are working hard on it with our colleagues from the regions and communities. We will be ready, but whether the vaccines are available and how many vaccines are available is the responsibility of the supplying companies. That is what contracts have been concluded with and what can be expected in these contracts. We will have to wait and see what concrete delivery will be made. That's what we depend on. Once again, we are not disadvantaged against other countries. And so, when we said that our aim is to vaccinate the most priority groups before the summer if possible, depending on what is being delivered, it is similar to what other countries will be able to do. That depends on whether those vaccines are approved and delivered. We will be ready, but there is, of course, also a responsibility on the part of the producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u37	Minister, I am very reassured by what you have said. I sincerely hope that those words will also reassure all the authorities and care providers who provide first-line assistance, and in particular those who need support. Your approach cannot go fast enough for all those people and institutions. We are indeed asking for patience these days, Mrs Depoorter, patience for a vaccine, patience to grab each other, patience to visit grandparents, patience to go to school. Minister, you are asking for patience now, but it is patience with a view to improvement and with the hope that it will get better. I therefore wish you very constructive consultations with the Länder on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Accessibility, accessibility and affordability of mental health care, we like to hear it. Three suicides and twenty-seven suicide attempts a day, they're sad numbers. Our young people need, above all, love and perspective, but also psychological guidance when they need it. Mental health care is still taboo. When all the clicks are made to seek help, it is all the worse that the aid seeker must wait at least six months. What I have heard today actually reassures me, because you are rolling things out, perfectly in line with a resolution adopted earlier this year on my initiative. You are setting up a transversal agreement committee, in which mental health professionals are really involved in the policy, bringing physical health and psychological health to the same level and raising the budget, hopefully one day up to 10% of the health budget, as the OECD says, because today we are only achieving 6%. This equality is crucial. During your policy statement, you said that you are realistic in your ambitions, but very radical in your implementation. Well, I am glad to see today that you are also showing this radicality for mental health care. We support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u39	Minister, it is very good that you have worked on psychological support. As far as the European train is concerned, it is a pity that we jumped on that. We were not even at the table in the negotiations, while the Netherlands, for example, was at the table. We had to find out in the second line. The Netherlands will indeed have to wait for the vaccines, but has ordered 29 million inhabitants. So it does have a head start on us. The worst thing is that the vaccines are being made around the corner, so we could have done better. You did not answer my question about the syringes, Minister. Since the summer, I have been asking for this, but it appears that they will only be delivered in mid-January and that there will not be enough supplies for those 1 million vaccines from January and February. I'm sure that's an effective problem. You also spoke to the residential care centres about it. We need a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u40	Minister, climate change is dramatically transforming our planet. Eighteen of the warmest years ever recorded have been in the past two decades. Extreme weather events are increasingly common, both in Europe and elsewhere. Today, a global response is needed not to jeopardise the Paris Agreement, the aim of which is to keep the planet's temperature rise well below 2°C and, if possible, to limit it to 1.5°C. The 7% less greenhouse gas emissions this year due to covid-19 will only have an insignificant impact on our targets. We're talking about 0.01°C of avoided warming by 2050, while the world is still on the way to 3° of warming, with far larger and even more destructive impacts. To maintain the decline in 2020, we would have to reduce our emissions by 7.6 per cent every year until 2030, while they have increased by 1.5 per cent per year over the last decade to reach a frightening peak of more than 2.6 per cent in 2019. Madam Minister, while the European Council is currently discussing raising the Union's climate ambitions from 40% to 55% less emissions by 2030 and a global climate ambition summit is meeting in two days' time, it was essential for Belgium to finally present a coordinated position with the Regions in order to be fully in line with Europe. Therefore, in the context of the recovery plans which must be fully part of the Green Deal, what innovation policy and what industrial policy does Belgium intend to promote to European partners? How can additional flexibility mechanisms enhance cost efficiency at European level? Finally, from the sharing of all these additional efforts to be made, what is our country's share of international climate finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u41	Madam President, Mrs Hanus, I thank you for your question, which allows me to rejoice before you and with you at the fact that, finally, Belgium, in these matters, takes its rightful place in the European concert, adopting a positive and constructive attitude at this summit. In fact, as you mentioned, we will support the European ambition of –55% emissions by 2030, putting on the table particular attention to efficiency in terms of cost-saving and flexibility. It is therefore with a positive and constructive attitude that we will intervene in this discussion. At this stage, these –55% are a European target and, over the next ten years, the European Union will therefore emit 3 billion tonnes of CO2 less than the previous target of minus 40%. But it is once this objective has been voted that work begins and that we will have to live up to these commitments. Energy renewal of buildings, electrification of transport, greening of energy supply and industry are priorities. As you also mentioned, the Recovery and Resilience Plan does include green investments that will be a priority in this plan. The momentum is underway: we receive good projects from all entities and we are now trying to make them stronger. We expect the Commission to implement these objectives in the spring of 2021. Only with this information will we finalize a cooperation agreement that will distribute the European targets for 2030 between the federal government and the federated entities. My regional counterparts and I have expressed the political ambition to negotiate this agreement before the Climate Conference in Glasgow in November 2021. Finally, I would like to close this speech without recalling that the climate agreement concerns not only the elimination of greenhouse gases but also climate justice. It is a matter of making this transition a social and just success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u42	Minister, the failure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions over several years has penalized Belgium, which now ranks 40th in the Climate Change Performance Index. In 2021, she appeared as one of the worst students in Western Europe. I therefore welcome the new ambitions put forward by our Government and the measures you intend to take to move our country forward on climate issues. We can't stay in the hesitancy any longer, in the small steps. To support the Green Deal is really to build on a recovery that is based on a sustainable and social energy transition. It's in everyone's interest. My group will be at your side and on all fronts, to lead this fight in order to guarantee a better future for our planet and especially for those who live there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u43	Madam President, Madam Secretary, may I be honest? When I watched the RTBF reportage on Umicore in Olen yesterday, I had to swallow a number of times. Olen not only sounds familiar to me, for me the well-known terrain is: it is in the Kempen, my hometown, a place where one can enjoy hiking, cycling and enjoying nature. Yesterday, however, in the reportage, it appeared once again that there is a historical nuclear pollution on and around the site of Umicore, the former Union Minière, where the remains of the first nuclear bombs were stored in the 1950s. And no, that's no reason to panic. We must not frighten the people, but we must not shy away from nuclear pollution. We must inform the public. That is why I was truly surprised that the FANC, our nuclear watchdog who also has the task of informing the citizen, only puts a link on his website about this dossier. A link on a website will not warn children who may want to play there. A link on a website will not inform the farmer who wants his cows graze there. A link on a website will not warn a family who is walking in that neighborhood and wants to have a picnic there. In my view, therefore, the FANC is inadequate there. Umicore also has a responsibility. There is not for nothing again in the polluter pays rule agreement, but the question is, of course, whether Umicore has enough money to clean up the area. I sincerely hope that a shortage of money will ultimately not hypothesize a clean-up, a clean-up of the terrain. That is why I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary. Will you instruct the FANC to better inform residents by identifying on the public domain where there is pollution or by writing a letter? Has the plan drawn up by the NRAS and the FANC at the beginning of this year to address the site included what the costs will be for Umicore?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u44	Madam Minister, a program on French-language public television gave us the opportunity to see an agent from Greenpeace doing radioactivity measurements on the public road around a site in Olen last night, whose level would reach an exorbitant rating, beyond what is acceptable. Much further than the way in which the television subject that is trying to worry the public and notwithstanding the denial communications that have been made about it today, can you in your capacity as minister responsible inform us objectively and transparently and thus inform the public about the exact situation? Is there a particular danger in this situation or not? What measures have been taken or are being taken to preserve health and the environment and to structurally manage that state of affairs? Has the Federal Nuclear Control Agency conducted an investigation to accurately identify the exact location of the hot spot thus measured by Greenpeace's agent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u45	Minister, the report of the RTBF's investigation program aired last night highlighted a poisonous legacy that has been ignored for too long. Of course, we did know about nuclear waste. They were discarded in the North Sea until the 1980s. Now, some would like to bury them and forget them underground. But what few people know is that four times as much radioactive waste is stored, piled up in radioactive landfills at the Umicore site in Olen. On the spot, I met people who were innocently wandering, children who were bathing in the canal near the wall of the Umicore factory in Olen, without knowing for a single second that some hot spots exceeded the radioactivity levels of the exclusion zones of Fukushima. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen! Even AFCN claims, in the official radiological safety report, that there are contaminated areas in groundwater on the nearby streets of Geel and Olen. So frankly, we cannot accept, as politicians, that there is not even a sign to warn the local population of the danger. Colleagues, imagine for two seconds that someone will come and pour in your garden tons of radioactive uranium and radium residues and tell you: "Don't worry, it's future generations who will clean up at their own expense!" You would tell them: "No, I do not accept it, by virtue of the polluter-pays principle; please clean everything now and at your expense". That is exactly what we are asking Umicore in Olen today. I know that some ministers, in the past, should have assumed their responsibilities earlier. The task is not simple. You obviously don't have a magic wand to solve the problem. But I'm really waiting for you to clean up the entire contaminated perimeter at Umicore's in Olen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u46	Madam President, Mrs Buyst, Mrs Marghem and Mr Cogolati, it is true that yesterday the Investigation programme discussed the management of radioactive waste in our country in greater depth. As a result of that reportage, questions may have arisen and his arguments have been addressed which may give rise to confusion. The FANC is well aware of all historically contaminated sites, including the site of Umicore in Olen, which were included in the reportage. Just because there are increased concentrations of radioactive substances at these locations, all services at the FANC follow that evolution and presence very closely and very closely. The radioactive contamination in Olen was the subject of an extensive measurement and characterisation campaign of the Nuclear Energy Study Centre in the 1990s. These measurement campaigns include landfills such as the D1 as well as the banks of the Bankloop, the river to which you referred, and the dwellings. Since these measurement campaigns were carried out, the FANC continuously follows the environment, not only on the sites but also around those contaminated sites, precisely because of their importance and impact on the environment. The FANC does so through online measurements via the TELERAD network and periodic sampling on site, so that the evolution of this pollution is monitored permanently. In this way, the evolution of this radiological situation can be closely monitored. As Mrs Buyst said, the measurements can already be consulted on the FANC website. I think it is a good suggestion that, with all the actors involved, not only the FANC, but also the municipalities and the private players concerned should look at what additional channels of communication we could use to bring the information about the situation on the ground as best as possible to all those involved and to all visitors. The measurements carried out so far in the field and the additional risk analyses have shown that the impact on the population and the environment remains very low. That's somewhat reassuring. It is important to emphasise this, because the elements from yesterday's report have been somewhat confusing. Contamination on publicly accessible parcels of land is much lower than on the landfill itself and does not result in significant exposure in the presence of walkers or riparians. It was important for me to point that out. Although the current radiological impact of active contamination in Olen is limited, it may increase in the event of a change in land use. This aspect should therefore be carefully monitored. Contamination is thus a hindrance to the redeployment of these lands and requires continuous monitoring. A comprehensive sanitation strategy has therefore always been indispensable. To this end, not only the AFCN, but also the National Organization for Radioactive Waste and Fortified Fissile Material (ONDRAF), in dialogue with Umicore and OVAM, are working to develop a comprehensive approach to contamination in Olen. This led at the beginning of the year to the publication of a joint vision note by AFCN and ONDRAF, following which they both engaged in a dialogue with all stakeholders, starting with Umicore and OVAM, in order to translate the note into concrete action. This will be followed in the coming months. In conclusion, on-site measurements and risk analyses have shown that the impact on the population and the environment remains reduced. If the allocation of the land concerned were to change in the future, new risk analyses would obviously have to be carried out. If necessary, the AFCN would take appropriate protective measures. In the end, the AFCN pursues only one objective: to protect the population, workers and the environment from all risks of ionizing radiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You say that historical pollution has been mapped out by, among other things, the FANC in recent years. That is good, but, as I said, just drawing up a report is not enough. Let us put signs on the public domain that indicate where the pollution lies, let us inform the residents along much more channels than just via a link on the website of the FANC. This will also lead to fewer ghost stories and more clarity. You are talking about a joint vision paper from the FANC and the NIRAS on the rehabilitation of the site. That is good, but I would also like to draw attention to the savings that Umicore has to put aside for that. As I said, there is no need to panic, but our group calls for action. We really have to deal with nuclear pollution with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u48	Minister, thank you for your particularly clear and documented answers. They tend to reassure the population by putting institutions back in their rightful place. This is a very important thing, which needs to be stressed. The people also need a legitimate trust in the ongoing work of our institutions, and you have recalled that. Thank you. The second thing I would like to say is that, in connection with this problematic situation of insufficient provisioning by a company in relation to problematic waste, it is only to take a decision within the framework of our country's national policy in relation to the treatment of such waste. It is therefore up to your colleague, Mr Tinne Van der Straeten, and the colleague from the Economic Affairs Committee, to take these steps. The file's ready. It's just moving forward. I have no doubt that you will convey this message to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u49	Madam Minister, I must acknowledge that, by listening to you, I have an emotional thought for my previous colleagues, Kristof Calvo, Muriel Gerkens in 2004 and Jean-Marc Nollet, who have repeatedly questioned previous governments in this House on inaction, which was merely delaying the remediation of this site that we have known to be contaminated for decades. Minister, I am relieved that you are finally taking this problem with your arms. I can tell you that I expect a lot from you. I know there is also a huge financial stake. Today, in the provisions of Umicore, there are only 30 million euros. However, we know that the bill could reach billions. For me, it is really out of the question that it is the Belgian people who have to drink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u50	Madam Secretary, West Flanders is worried. We are particularly concerned on the coast, not only about the economic consequences of the Brexit, but above all about safety. You know that there are normally 6,000 trucks crossing the Channel every day. Due to the imminent Brexit there are currently 9,000. They are in traffic from Dunkirk to the hinterland of Koksijde and later also in my municipality Middelkerke and on the East Coast, from Zeebrugge to Lissewege. It creates a very big safety problem on the E40. Soon, when the case closes, we'll have customs offices and an additional problem with waiting traffic jams. As it now seems, with the fisheries agreement, we are already talking about closing the French borders and blockades in the ports of Calais and Dunkirk. That's a huge problem. That is the problem of the roads, Madam Minister, but there is another problem. As Minister of the Interior, you know very well that there is a major problem with transmigrants along the E40. That problem has existed for 25 years. We have been able to dig it up lately, but the emergence of these very large traffic jams has given rise to a number of waves of transmigrants, which lead to car break-in, hide around the motorways, break-ins into homes and campings, and so on. What will you do to avoid the chaos on the road? There has always been a plan to distract cars in the hinterland. What will you do about the additional problems, with regard to the transmigrants, for example the break-in of cars? Is there going to be backup for the local police, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u51	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, you referred to two problems in West Flanders. I can assure you that they both receive national attention because they are important not only for the province of West Flanders but also for the whole country. Transmigration is an element that has long been high on the agenda. After all, every human being is affected by the harrowing images of victims who are in refrigerators. As a federal minister, I am well aware that this problem also has an impact on the port situation, on truck drivers and on the safety of the environment. We must do everything we can, not only at federal level, but also at provincial and local level, to tackle this problem of transmigration. Just because I attach such importance to this dossier, my very first site visit as Minister was one at Zeebrugge, together with Secretary of State Mahdi, to discuss this issue and to get acquainted with the different police units that have to deal with it. In addition to the problem of transmigration, there is indeed the problem of possible congestion due to the Brexit negotiations. We do not know how they will end, but everything is being done to prepare ourselves as well as possible. Last Tuesday I had a meeting with the port companies from Zeebrugge. They have once again outlined to me how this problem can affect their functioning, what can be done about it and how they are looking for solutions on a permanent basis, in cooperation with the private companies who are willing to provide images from the terminals in order to gather as much information as possible. Yesterday, the National Crisis Centre organised a coordination meeting on the Brexit together with all the other relevant bodies. I have noticed that a lot of plans have been drawn up for different scenarios. As I said, we do not yet know exactly where the negotiations will land, but the police on road traffic, the local authorities, the municipalities and the administrations of road traffic are very well prepared to manage road traffic. They were able to test that in recent days, when there was already more traffic and longer traffic jams towards France and the North Sea ports. Particular attention is paid to communication with road signs and there is also cooperation with neighbouring countries The Netherlands and Germany to see where these traffic flows come from. Tomorrow I will also be sitting again with Mr Mahdi on the subject of transmigration, to discuss the cooperation between the Foreign Office and the police forces, including in the context of the Brexit. In this context, we still have a great deal to gain from simplified, digitised procedures in the field, where rapid identification and rapid transmission of data are very important. I can tell you that I am almost daily in the process of following up on the problem. Good information sharing is important. I would like to give you two more elements. We have taken the necessary initiatives to also install a liaison officer in the United Kingdom and to cooperate with France and the United Kingdom, now that the border will become an external border. The integrated police will continue to focus on detection, information exchange and controls, so that we can continue to address the smugglers, who are, of course, the first major pawns. In this respect, of course, the Länder also have an important role to play. We shall therefore continue to discuss this matter. I am aware that I have somewhat exceeded my speaking time. However, this is an important issue. Moreover, there were actually two questions in one question, namely the Brexit and the Transmigration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u52	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply, which you yourself described as detailed. We're looking forward to it. We had a meeting yesterday with the governor and the other coastal mayors. I know there are plans for the police. As an administrative authority, we await the explanation of the forthcoming plans. Madam Minister, I am also delighted that you will address the problem of the transmigrants. I hear we're getting reinforcements from the federal police to see if we're all gonna cut our turkey alone on Christmas. I hope that this will also apply to the security of the transmigrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u53	The Vivaldi government has been active for a few weeks and there is only talk of political renewal. When I was renovating, I thought of something new. In practice, I don't see anything new. We're just gonna continue with corny politics, as always. It's getting worse. For example, there were 13 ministers in the past. Today, that's twenty. There are 2,000 cabinet members in Belgium. Is that the renewal expected by the people? A minister earns 10,500 euros net per month in Belgium. That's a good paycheck. Isn't that where something would change? That didn't happen again. And what about the donations to the parties? Kingdom Helpers! 43 million euros a year in the pockets of the parties; lots to the pop bottle! Is that the innovation that is expected from politics? That's not serious. The retirement allowances are EUR 240,000. What does one earn if one loses one's job in a company? Unemployment benefit is paid from 1,000 to 1,200 euros. Ex-politicians get 240,000 euros. I don't understand. There is talk of renewal, but there is nothing new. There has been a continuation of old politics, which has been going on for 40 years. Do you agree with the PVDA's proposal to abolish the retirement allowances? Do you agree with the proposal to halve the amounts to the parties? That's a good proposal, isn't it? Do you agree to halve the wages of ministers and politicians? I would like an answer to those three specific proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u54	Mr Hedebouw, I have a great deal of sympathy for your passion for democratic and political renewal. Everyone has their style, but I think I'm at least as passionate about that. That was one of the reasons why I started my assignment about nine weeks ago. An existing system that needs to be thoroughly analysed cannot be completely reversed after eight weeks. However, it is not because nothing has happened today that nothing will happen in the future. After all, you have read in the policy statement that we will start a broad democratic debate, and we will also listen to those who do not have a seat in the Chamber to hear what they think of democratic renewal. Then we'll get to work on that. The government has also invited Parliament to join the team and to take initiatives in many areas. Not everything can come from the government. I look forward to these initiatives with great interest. For your question on the size of the Cabinets, I can refer to the Prime Minister's reply at the meeting on 8 October. I would also like to point out the current situation in our country and say that we must not reduce the debate to the number of cabintards and the number of ministers. In my opinion, what cabinet staff and ministers are doing is far more important than the numbers. We are facing a very serious crisis and we need adequate support, not only from the administrations, where there is a lot of expertise, but also from the policy cells. As far as your other questions on the specific proposals are concerned, I believe that there can be effective questions about the systems in force. It concerns, among other things, the regime for former ministers and the fees. However, we must not look at all this too narrowly, because there is also a world outside Parliament and comparisons are possible. We need to start the debate on this, with all the actors. I will not make a final statement on this at this time, because that would pre-empt the debate. However, as I have said, I have a great deal of sympathy for your passion. If we work with many with such passion, then we will certainly be able to renew and really do not have to wait that long.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u55	Madam Minister, you have just justified the current situation. I was asking you about the fact that we've gone from 13 to 20 ministers and you're telling me that there's still a lot of work to do. Previously, wasn't there a lot of work? There was also work, since the skills were the same. Why do we need 20 ministers and 2,000 cabinetmakers? It's huge and all you're saying is that there's a lot of work to do. So we continue in the old political culture. There is no political renewal. Staffing is a real problem. The political parties are given €43 million. Minister, do something! You're saying we're going to consult the citizens. I have consulted them; they are not happy with the 43 million euros that are given to the political parties and they would like us to cut in there! You say we have to make comparisons with the outside world. Compare ministers' salaries with what people get from outside. They'll all tell you that 10 500 net euros a month is too much! Minister, you can't justify that you win so much. This is not justifiable or justifiable. It's too much! Tell me today that you agree with the PTB's proposal to divide politicians' salaries by two, and so we will share the same passion for changing the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u56	Madam Secretary, let me begin by congratulating you. You managed to do something with zero euros budget that this government needed hundreds of thousands of euros campaign budget for: you put Belgium on the map, even on the international map! You got TheWashington Post with: "Belgians can invite guests for Christmas dinner, but only one can use the bathroom." Absurd rules and absurd communication like this are the reason for my question. I understand that you represent CD&V, not because you were elected, but because the party has designated you. It is the party on the one hand and the party on the other. For you in particular, I have put my first question to you on the one hand and on the other hand. On the one hand, if you live in an apartment or a working-class house in this country, you can only invite one person to Christmas. On the other hand, if one has a spacious villa with a large garden, one may have four around the fire basket. On the one hand, in Flanders people are going to spy on the citizens with drones. On the other hand, Islamic funerals with hundreds of people present can be held in Brussels. On the one hand, people have to worry at Christmas that the police are invading because they have ordered too much meat or pizzas from the caterer. On the other hand, it is illegal to sleep on two ears in this country because the police are not allowed to set foot in it. Madam Secretary, before you were Minister, you were a gifted attorney. Then you know that there are two things that are very important. First of all, everyone should know the law. This cacophony doesn't make any sense to anyone anymore. Secondly, everyone should be equal before the law. We are increasingly finding that there are two sizes and two weights. What will you do about it, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u57	Madam Secretary, today we are living in difficult times because of the corona virus, especially with the Christmas and New Year period. It will not be easy for us, but the strict rules are needed to prevent the spread of the virus. We fully support the national rules and also their enforcement. Anyone who fails to comply with them will be punished. The control must be proportionate, with respect for fundamental principles such as the right to privacy or the inviolability of the home. Corona is not a free man to suspend the Constitution. There was already the sensitive discussion about residential entrances. We must be very careful about these things. Today, we hear that a police zone will use heat cameras on drones to control community training on the public domain in the streets. However, these drones will inevitably also make images of the gardens and homes of people bordering that public domain at the same time, and that is a fundamental breach of privacy. We also read today that the Antwerp governor wants to check how many people there are in a house and how many pizzas there are being delivered there. Colleagues, there are limits. We do not live in a police state that spies on its inhabitants, we live in a democratic rule of law. Here my party draws a clear line in the sand. I have three questions on this, Madam Secretary. How will you avoid a patchwork of measures in the end-year period? What will you do about the police zones that want to use heat drones? Are you prepared to refine the circular on the use of these cameras, so that the privacy of citizens in their homes is better protected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u58	Madam President, Minister, I have interviewed the Prime Minister on this matter several times in recent months, but without success, so I thought I could give it a try with you. We are facing a serious health crisis, and serious measures are being taken, which must be maintained. I would like to add three things. Firstly, citizens want to be addressed as citizens and not as suspects. When we stop corona parties, we are absolutely right, because they are a threat to public health. However, anyone who invites both bomba and bomba at home wonders if he gets the police over the floor or a drone over the garden. As a result, I believe you are undermining the public's support for appropriate measures. Secondly, I think people are getting a little scared to watch talk programmes, because before they know it, new entanglements are being announced. Last week it was said that if you come from a red zone, which is a bit bizarre, because we all live in red zones, which are suddenly grounded for ten days. This misunderstanding has been triggered by you, because when there is no basis for the new rule that was not mentioned in the press conference after the Conciliation Committee, it suddenly appeared in a talk programme. Third, where is your corona law? There is, after all, a question of legal koterij. This government has been formed while the corona crisis has been going on for months, but not one word, not one sentence in the coalition agreement is devoted to proper legal support for the measures. The risk is that anyone who violates the measures but contests them may be right in court. Where's your corona law? How come this government has not given any thought at its composition to addressing this problem? You have been in office for nine weeks, but we are waiting in vain for a proportionate approach to the degradation of fundamental civil rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u59	Madam Secretary, you will have five minutes to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u60	Madam President, Mr De Roover, Mr Van Grieken and Mr Vandenput, we are still living in particularly difficult but exceptional times. I'm repeating myself, I understand. It is not for nothing that we are still in the federal phase of emergency planning and we are actually in a state of emergency. We have seen today that the figures are on a plateau and that they are rising again in certain provinces, including Flanders. The number of people on intensive care is still as high as in April. It is therefore important that we look very closely at the corona measures and, above all, their enforcement. Mr Van Grieken, you referred to a quote from The Washington Post. I must say that you yourself are making a bit of a caricature of the rules. However, they are very simple. They haven't changed. Also not in response to that message in TheWashington Post. One hug contact can be invited at home. Whatever that hug contact is gonna do there, the hug contact and the host or hostess are free, but that's the rule. That is all that has been explained, and I regret that you are making a caricature of it, because that is not really very unclear. We must, indeed, maintain it. We must ensure that our police services, which have been on the ground for months in sometimes difficult circumstances, continue to be able to enforce the measures in a professional and correct manner. Mr De Roover, you referred to the red zones and the passengers. We have also been familiar with this system for a long time: completing the form at the border crossing point. I repeat it for those who have forgotten or repressed it: the representatives of the Länder, including Prime Minister Jambon, were also present at the last meeting of the Consultative Committee. It is true that there is a very explicit agreement that checks will be carried out, not only on the completion of the form, but also on compliance with the quarantine which must be held afterwards. Because, as we learn not only the experience of the first wave, but also the information from the World Health Organization, for example: non-compliance with the quarantine will make it very difficult for us to control this virus, because the people involved are travelling among others, have social contacts, and thus help to spread the virus. That is exactly what we do not want. I believe that we should make the people who choose to travel today on holiday, and who are in a risky environment, think carefully about whether that is the right choice at the moment, and whether too much has been asked to refrain from social contacts when they return so that the virus does not spread. Only in this way can we ensure that we do not get an unwanted increase in the spread of the virus in January, that we do not get a third wave, and that we do not have to explain to the people of care that they will have to make superhuman efforts again in order to provide all patients with the necessary care and follow-up. There will be effective monitoring. This will be done not only by the police, in the context of road checks, but also by the local and regional authorities which have already informed and will inform their contact and tracing centres of compliance with that quarantine. These are exceptional measures. We are not doing this for our pleasure, but only because we have no choice but to be strict about it. It is also the express wish of many people who adhere to the rules that those who do not do so should also be kept. The Corona Act is in preparation. I've said that at different times. This law will not be called "corona law," but "pandemic law," because we need to be prepared for all kinds of risks that could arise in a similar way. The system it maintains, namely motivation and proportionality, will be the same as it is today. The Council of State has already confirmed in many judgments that our current approach is not a patchwork or just a gimmick of regulation, as you say. This approach stands and is legal and constitutional. Mr Vandenput, local authorities and local police can decide to deploy drones. This is a competence of the local police which must be carried out in accordance with the legal frameworks and in accordance with all relevant directives. It is, of course, my absolute intention that all corona controls should be carried out in accordance with the legislative framework. No border must be crossed here. I am a lawyer, so it is very close to my heart that we are proportionate, motivated, but also legally involved in the controls. Live entry or other forms of enforcement can also take place legally today. I call on everyone, first and foremost the local authorities, to proceed with this. I hope I have answered your questions with this. Outside this forum, of course, I would like to continue with you in the debate to look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u61	Madam President, Minister, you know that my party has always been very responsible for dealing with all these rules. Even if they're absurd, we never call upon them not to comply. I do not envy your position to uphold the law either, but my party still advocates a little more common sense and a little more humanity. I'm facing the question of who I'm inviting on Christmas Eve with my wife. Is it my single father of 64, who has only seen his grandson once more, or is it my grandmother of 86, who has only seen her great-grandson once more? I stand for that torn-up choice and with me a lot of Flemings. For once, can it not be a bid for the strictest, but for the most humane and can one show a little common sense instead of using drones or counting pizzas or fleece?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, we must keep our heads down. These are exceptional times, as you say. Everyone also wants us to get through the end-of-year celebrations safely and healthyly, without giving the virus the freedom of play. There is indeed the camera law and the right to privacy. We must find a balance in this. I am therefore pleased that you have indicated that the proportionality test should be carried out. Mayors, some governors and chiefs of police are making decisions today to enforce the covid measures. They too must take this proportionality test. Madam Minister, if that does not happen, I am counting on you to act and ask them to do the test. After all, without any reason above homes and gardens flying with heat cameras, maintaining the covid measures for our party is a bridge too far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u63	Madam President, Madam Minister, on the passenger form, I would like to say that anyone who behaves responsibly abroad should not be quarantined. That's just the whole essence of the form. Today is the day of human rights. Of course, we did not expect that day to bring about a debate here on the respect of fundamental rights in our own country. You should talk to an experienced teacher. When something is misguided in a classroom and the teacher doesn't know who's wronged something, then it's a very bad idea to punish the whole classroom. In that case, the whole class will turn against the teacher and all measures will be taken. I have informed the Prime Minister that he must not forget that he has entered politics as a liberal. May I also point out that you must not forget that you are a lawyer? After all, your reputation threatens to be dented when you issue ministerial decisions that affect fundamental rights. That is why I would ask you to knock on the government table next time and to state that as a lawyer you do not want to undermine fundamental rights with a ministerial decision and that your signature does not come under that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, two months ago during the discussion of the declaration of government, I was already feeling wet. Although the speeches made by Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Lachaert were very extensive, they did not mention the new migration policy, a policy which they of course knew was actually written by green and red and which they simply did not want to talk about. You know me, Mr Mahdi. Of course, I could not allow that to happen, and I asked both gentlemen how, in the name of God, they would realise the promise to return more illegal migrants, if they were excluded from the government agreement in advance, at the request of green and red, from the most important methods of sending them back. Your colleague from CD&V turned around for a few minutes, as only a bitch could, and he didn't give me an answer. Mr Lachaert did give me an answer, namely that they would realise that great promise through the opening of new closed return centres. A few weeks later, when we were finally allowed to question you in committee, Mr Mahdi, you confirmed that news. More importantly, you distributed a press release with large drum and stated in all newspapers that you would open new closed return centers. For months, that was your answer to all possible questions. Don't worry, dear people, you said, I will realize all those promises thanks to the opening of new closed return centers. What, however, were you not counting on? You did not expect the new Secretary of State Mathieu Michel to speak his mouth and admit that the new closed return centres will not be available at all during this term of office. So, Mr Mahdi, you've been spreading fake news consciously or unconsciously for months. Your entire policy is based on the lie that you would realize your promises thanks to the opening of new closed return centres, which now show that they will not be there at all during this legislature. It is not very clean to deceive people, but I have worked out a proposal to make it up to you, Mr Mahdi, constructive as I am. Are you prepared to respond to our proposal to create a temporary centre for forced return, for example by using one or more prison boats or by using military sites or barracks? That is a very nice and constructive proposal, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u65	Mr Van Langenhove, I understand that you are asking that question. I even understand, on the basis of the previous legislature, that you might be concerned. After all, in the previous legislature, it was promised that a new closed centre would be built in Zandvliet by the summer of 2020. The summer of 2020 is already a bit behind us and there is no stone in Zandvliet. The promise was also made to create a closed center in Jumet by 2021. In three weeks, 2021 will begin and there is no stone in Jumet yet. The then government had already agreed on the master plan in 2017. Announcement is one thing, performing is another. The government agreement is very clear about the ambition of our government, but I will quote it again, because that is obviously necessary: "The government will provide the necessary means to generate sufficient capacity for the removal of persons in illegal residence and in good living conditions. We will improve the master plan, without deviating from the timing, to meet the needs." I'll stick to that. At the moment, my services are busy preparing an optimized plan. Good preparation takes time, but it is necessary to speed up the process afterwards. So you can be sure that these new centres will be there. There is nothing else I can do but quote Mr Michel himself: 'We are on the same page in terms of the ambition to speed up the completion of the closed centres'. Building a new center takes time and the intention is to go faster than what is planned. Zandvliet exists for the time being only in newspaper clippings, so is Jumet, and it's easy to go from a tweet to a newspaper article. It's harder to go from a newspaper article to bricks. It's for that that I'll take care of, but that happens by working hard, by working quietly, behind the scenes. You can count on me to work on this in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I do not really know where to start, because I have heard a lot of things that do not go far. You refer to the timing and stress that you will realize the new closed centres more quickly, while Secretary of State Mathieu Michel says that they will not have yet been implemented. How long can it take to just build the closed return centers? That is pure political unwillingness. In a few months' time, these and previous governments were able to free thousands of places for asylum seekers. Then why can you create only 90 more places in the closed return centres in 3.5 years, when there are thousands of places needed there? That is pure political unwillingness. You mustn't blame anyone else for that failure either. You are pointing the finger at Mr Francken. You recall the broken promises made by Mr Francken, your predecessor. That doesn't make your policy any better. Two wrongs don't make a right Mr. Secretary of State. If you say that there must be more serenity in the debate, start yourself, start giving transparent and correct information yourself. It would adorn you, should you admit your mistake and acknowledge that you actually spread fake news for months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u67	This concludes our oral question-and-answer session. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u68	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Ahmed Laaouej, who referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u69	Madam President, Secretary of State, colleagues, certain colleagues and parties are critical of dysfunctions if they are not themselves part of the majority. There will then be, among other things, critical exchanges of views where the Minister is put on the roster and there will even be free stands where the entire government will be wiped out. I would like to refer to Mr Leysen. An interim title of his piece of opinion was: "If the government wants citizens' accounts to be in order, it should set an example itself." However, if those colleagues and parties join the majority, then the tone changes. Either we remain silent, which may happen today, or the new minister or secretary of state, whether or not of his own party, is safely framed with relativizing and constructive, encouraging statements. Of course, the same was true of this bill. Madam Secretary of State, the quality of these accounts is an old one but therefore no less relevant today. I know this is a case that you inherited from your predecessor, who in turn inherited it from his predecessor. So it's some kind of original sin. Two weeks ago we got part III of the 177th Book of the Court of Auditors on the bus, although over the general account 2019 of the general government of the federal state. The Court of Auditors noted that, once again, the recommendations it made in the previous book on the preparation of the consolidated accounts of the Federal State were not complied with. A comprehensive regulatory framework is lacking and there are large consolidation differences in the balance sheet and the profit and loss account because the Federal Accountant has not developed sufficiently detailed instructions and procedures. Let us not forget that from the financial year 2020 the Court of Auditors of Europe will have to issue a certification of the federal state's financial statements. If one had to have done so for the financial year 2018, it would have rejected them or at least abstained. That's what the Court of Auditors said last year. Madam Secretary of State, in the explanatory memorandum to this bill, it can be read that the account of the 2018 Government of the Buildings was "late timed." "Was completed," we're here in a morgue, as it were. The Government of the Buildings seems to remain a child of concern, and not the only one in the field of accounts and accounting. What does the Court of Auditors say? I refer to the report of 16 July 2020 and quote: "However, the structural problems affecting the quality of the accounts, such as the lack of an adapted accounting plan, adapted accounting software, a correct balance sheet, sufficient accounting staff and the lack of internal control, remain." The launch of new software by former guardianship minister Geens, announced a year and a half ago, has been delayed again and will not start until 1 January 2021. It is also still waiting for the valuation of the heritage of the Regie der Buildings. An external consultant was hired to do so. Another care child remains the Federal Agency for the reception of asylum seekers, here sufficiently known as Fedasil. I quote the Court of Auditors: 'Although Fedasil sets a budget in balance every year, its implementation has been in structural deficit for years. For 2019, the Agency has not followed the recommendation of the Court of Auditors to draw up a more realistic budget." The accounts of the Federal Scientific Institutions, the FWIs, still do not give a true picture of the cultural and scientific heritage of these institutions in 2019. Here, too, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors have still not been taken into account. I can go on for a while. Madam Secretary of State, in committee I have said that there have been concerns in Parliament about the quality of the accounts for some time now. In fact, a special exchange of views was devoted to it, as the Sub-Committee "Rekenhof" had an exchange of views on 18 February 2020 with then competent Minister Clarinval and the Councillor at the Court of Auditors on the quality of the 2018 accounts of the same services that are now in place. The Court of Auditors then established a lack of guidance by the Federal Accountant. It was found that the accounting data provided by the departments to that service were not adequately audited and that the instructions were not applied in a uniform and inadequate manner by the departments. The departments do not sufficiently monitor the quality of the figures they provide for the preparation of the general accounts, with all the consequences for the quality of those accounts. According to the Court of Auditors, the Federal Accountant must do more than merely collect and transmit information by playing a more decisive role, of course with the use of more resources. Also in terms of valuation rules there were too few clear guidelines from the FOD BOSA and the Federal Accountant service. Madam Secretary of State, in your policy statement/policy statement we read that there will be an updated accompanying framework for the budget and accounting, including an amendment to the 2003 law, with, among other things, a greater focus on accounting and the development of quality reporting. You also face a larger management autonomy of the departments and you also recognise that the Federal Accountant service faces major challenges. There will be a certification of the accounts, of course in cooperation with the Court of Auditors. I therefore hope that you will succeed in what your predecessors actually failed in. I hope that the recommendations of the Court of Auditors over the last two years will finally be taken into account. You will understand, however, that in the circumstances we do not approve this bill today. We shall therefore abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u70	Madam President, I will of course not confuse Mr Ravyts, because we have discussed this in the Court of Auditors sub-committee. And we can see, despite everything, that there is a marked improvement this year. The Court of Auditors notes that 61% of the bodies are in order. This is already an improvement of 12% compared to last year. However, like the reviewers, it notes a whole series of shortcomings. Deficiencies are, in general, non-compliance with schedules, non-utilization of recommended software at the account level, so as to be able to manage all the same accounts in all organizations, and lack of budget summaries, etc. It's not nothing! It's not gravissim, but it's not nothing! Therefore, I, in my capacity as Chairman of the Court of Auditors Subcommittee, along with my colleagues, have agreed to convene these various bodies so that they can be forced to comply with the requirements. Indeed, the certification of the state accounts, as Mr Ravyts pointed out, must take place and it is known that, so far, this certification could not have taken place, because the accounts of these bodies are in fact defective. This does not mean that the accounts are not correct, since the Court of Auditors still approved them and we approved them in the Court of Auditors Committee, but it means that there is a serious effort to ensure that the documents are correct. As far as the Régie des bâtiments is concerned, there were huge defects in the past. However, while the 2018 accounts were still late, the 2019 accounts were returned on time, which also shows a significant improvement in the situation. We will not, however, be satisfied and we will continue to follow them closely. Two meetings of the Court of Auditors subcommittee have already been included on the agenda. We're going to register some more in the next few months. It is true that we have been failing to do so these months, but it was not easy to organize this type of meeting, since the best thing is to hear our interlocutors and it is even better to see them in the eyes than by video conferencing when we have things to say to them. We will therefore now schedule meetings in support of the Secretary of State because, of course, she has overall responsibility, but we, as parliamentarians and especially as members of the Court of Auditors sub-committee, have our responsibility to exert pressure. The Court of Auditors will be at our side because its concern is also that the accounts should be certified. We will therefore vote on these accounts because we have already done so in the subcommittee with the comments I have just made and we will urge them to comply so that all things are put in place so that the certification of the State's accounts can take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u71	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u72	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1630/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1630/1) The bill has 5 articles, as well as tables. The draft law contains 5 articles, as well as tables. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u74	The Chamber must make the appointment of the French-speaking Federal Ombudsman. The Chamber should appoint the French-speaking Federal Ombudsman. Nominations were announced in plenary on 23 April 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session on 23 April 2020. On 17 November 2020, the Petitions Committee held a hearing of the candidates. Ms Dominiek Sneppe reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 9 December 2020. On 17 November 2020 the candidates were heard by the Petitions Committee. Ms Dominiek Sneppe reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2020. I propose that you make this appointment at the plenary meeting on Thursday, 14 January 2021. I propose that you proceed to this appointment at the plenary session of 14 January 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Members may vote from Monday 4 January 2021 until Thursday 14 January 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and the parliamentary document are available to them in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 14 January 2021. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Monday 4 January 2021 until Thursday 14 January 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 14 January 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u75	By letter dated November 25, 2020, Mr. Laurent Van Doren reported that on December 31, 2020, he would resign as a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. By letter dated 25 November 2020, Mr Laurent Van Doren announced that he would resign as a French-speaking member of the Standing Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services from 31 December 2020. In accordance with article 30, paragraph 3, of the Act of 18 July 1991 on the control of the police and intelligence services and of the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, "the member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the six-year term shall be replaced, for the remainder of the term of office, by his first alternate and, if he renounces it, by his second alternate". In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the member whose mandate is terminated before the expiry of the six-year period for the remainder of the term of office shall be replaced by his first alternate and, if he fails to do so, by his second alternate. At the plenary session on 22 November 2018, Mr Thibaut Van Damme was appointed as the first alternate for Mr Laurent Van Doren. At the plenary session of 22 November 2018, Mr Thibaut Van Damme was appointed as the first alternate member of Mr Laurent Van Doren. By e-mail dated December 1, 2020, Mr. Thibaut Van Damme agreed to serve as a member. By e-mail of 1 December 2020, Mr Thibaut Van Damme accepted the mandate of a member. In accordance with article 30, paragraph 3, of the above-mentioned Act, the Chamber shall, in the event of the vacancy of an alternate member, proceed without delay to the appointment of a new alternate member. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 30 of the said Act, the Chamber should immediately appoint a new alternate member in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat. The House must therefore appoint a new French-speaking substitute for the R Committee. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new French-speaking first alternate to the Committee I. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2020, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the term of first alternate of a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 2020, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of the first alternate of a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u76	The government called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on various tax provisions and the fight against urgent fraud, No. 1683/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various anti-fraud and fiscal measures was submitted, No. 1683/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u77	The bill introduced by Minister Van Peteghem containing various urgent tax provisions and anti-fraud provisions was approved at the Council of Ministers meeting on 20 November 2020. The application of article 51 was requested. The request for urgent treatment of the measure relating to the professional discount of bachelors is based on the fact that as from 1 January 2020, following a lifting provision, there is no longer a legal basis for granting another professional discount exemption to researchers holding a bachelor's degree. The bill that is proposed here corrects this material error for remuneration paid or granted on or after January 1, 2020. For the provisions relating to the deduction of interest, the second subject of the draft law, the request for urgent treatment was motivated by a letter of formal notice sent by the European Commission on 2 July 2020, with a final deadline of 3 December 2020. This provision to remedy the notice brings Belgian legislation into line with Directive 2016/1164 of 12 July 2016 laying down rules to combat tax evasion practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. The third part concerns measures taken with regard to defensive measures against the courts on the European list of non-cooperative courts for taxation purposes, established by the Council. It requires urgent treatment in order to comply with the decision of the European Council to implement these defensive measures on 31 December 2020. Member States will soon be asked about the follow-up to this decision and it is therefore urgent to deal with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u78	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u79	The government also requested urgency in accordance with section 51 of the Regulations for the bill amending the Railway Code Act of 30 August 2013, No. 1642/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the draft law amending the Law of 30 August 2013 on Rail Codex, No. 1642/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u80	Madam President, this text is, I agree, quite technical and voluminous. It aims to transpose into Belgian law two European directives aimed at improving railway interoperability and thus facilitating the movement of goods and people across Europe. It is therefore particularly important for Belgium to enable these rail objectives to be achieved. These are two Directives: Directive 2016/797 and Directive 2016/798. They were originally to be transposed by 16 June 2020. In the context of the covid-19 pandemic, this date was initially extended to October 31, 2020. Given the exceptional circumstances of the crisis, the time and energy needed to manage this crisis, not only for our country but also for all other European countries, the European Commission has agreed to grant Belgium a final four-month extension. As the end of this period is approaching dangerously, we must honour our commitments to the Commission and avoid an unnecessary and painful fine for public finances, which legitimises the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u81	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u82	The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill containing measures to be taken in the fight against the spread of the VOCID-19 pandemic with regard to the tariff system at Brussels-National Airport, No. 1692/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, to take measures to combat the spread of the COOVID-19 pandemic as regards the tariff system at Brussels Airport, No. 1692/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, every five years, Brussels Airport Company must consult users, i.e. airlines operating from Brussels National Airport with regard to its fares. This is the tariff control formula, the tariff system and their evolution during the next regulatory period. In this context, the companies had to submit their traffic forecasts at Brussels-National airport three months before the start of the consultation to set the applicable rates for the use of the airport. The covid-19 pandemic obviously makes it impossible to exchange data and consult between Brussels Airport Company and airlines because the consequences of this pandemic on the airline industry are obviously very uncertain at this stage and unpredictable. Therefore, volumes for the next five years can be difficult to estimate in the current context. Therefore, the current period of regulation concerning the tariff control formula and the tariff system between the operator and the Brussels-National airport and the airlines should be extended by one year. In view of the fact that Brussels Airport Company must initiate the multi-year consultation of airlines by 17 January 2021 at the latest, this law will have to come into force no later than 16 January 2021, i.e. in a few weeks' time. For the reasons set out above, the Government requests urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u84	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u85	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u86	Mrs Depraetere, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal concerning various measures relating to rapid antigen testing and the recording and processing of data relating to vaccinations in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, No. 1677/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u87	Madam President, this request for urgency concerns a legislative proposal which includes a number of adjustments necessary to protect the population in the fight against the coronavirus. Specifically, it is about the use of rapid tests. These rapid tests can detect the coronavirus within the hour and thus form an important new tool in the control of the pandemic. Getting rapid test results can contribute to faster isolation of infected persons, faster contact detection and faster cluster research, which is crucial for, for example, the essential services sectors, the continuity of education and childcare and the continuity of activities in other key sectors. The modalities of the legislative proposal apply only during the crisis. It is therefore a matter of emergency measures. That is why my group is asking for the urgency of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u88	Madam President, we support the urgency, because this is something that should have been settled a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u89	I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u90	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 2 December 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 2 December 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 55/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 55/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months there has been an urgent situation on our south-west external border, on the Canary Islands. That forced me to raise this urgency in the Chamber by means of an interplay. I have submitted an interview to Secretary of State Mahdi asking whether Belgium will take initiatives to discuss the situation in the Canary Islands with the Spanish counterpart as soon as possible in order to reach a diplomatic consensus. For several months now, this migration route has been very popular again. This is an illegal and very dangerous migration route. It's the most dangerous illegal migration route along the sea. The Atlantic is a lot more dangerous, unpredictable and wild than the Mediterranean. This also means that many more people die on that Atlantic Ocean than in other seas where there are large migratory movements. I have asked Mr Mahdi whether he is conducting diplomatic consultations and whether he will also ensure that Spain realises that Belgium cannot accept the hotel reception that is now being organised for the people arriving there. These illegal migrants are housed in luxury hotels that are empty because there are no tourists on Gran Canaria and Tenerife. I don't know if this is the best signal that should be given. We also put people in hotels once, with Mr Wathelet. That was ten years ago. This has created a huge suction effect across the Balkans, and as a result it has only got worse. That is what is happening in Spain. Mr Mahdi has promised consultation and has had it in the meantime. That is why I have also tabled this interplay and motion, asking the Belgian Government, at the highest level, the European level and bilaterally with Spain, to ensure that luxury reception stops in hotels as soon as possible and that further consultations are held with Morocco, so that those boats are also stopped and that that illegal migration route dries back as soon as possible. After all, this is very dangerous. This is not the way to organise migration. On the contrary, we are going for a completely different model, an Australian model, with maximum control over illegal migration, which is not happening now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u92	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u93	Yes 86 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u94	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u95	Yes 89 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1630/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1630/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip074x.u96	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents today, I propose that you approve the agenda for next week's sittings. In accordance with today's Conference of Presidents' opinion, I propose that the agenda for next week's meetings be adopted. Let me remind you that we will have three days of plenary meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? We've got a lot of work to do, so I suggest you get ready. Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, December 15, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 15 December 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
