ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u1	Good morning, everyone. We'll start our work. I would like to announce that we will conclude our work at about 4.30 p.m. I would also remind you that the minister will come every third Wednesday afternoon of the month. The outstanding issues were therefore postponed to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u2	Madam President, Madam Secretary, welcome. I am glad that the first question asked to you is about the first citizens of our country. How beautiful can it be? At the beginning of this year, together with colleagues, we adopted a law on miners' pensions, as you know, so that we can finally calculate correctly what the miners have not yet received. This law was published in the Belgian Official Journal in June. Some had hoped that it would become clear very quickly which direction it is heading, but nothing is less true. The strange thing is that when we call the Federal Pensions Office, we have more questions than answers. Madam Secretary, what about the monthly pension shortages of ex-miners? From when will the miners receive their pensions correctly? From when will the ten-year retroactivity be taken into account? Can you also set an end date? There are a lot of additional questions out there. Questions arise about the notification and who is eligible for it. Is it possible to send a letter to the people who are eligible? I am sure that both the Pension Service and we are overloaded every day with questions from ex-miners because they want to know who is eligible or not. Does the FPD need a solution for the additional number of staff for the calculation? Is there any clarity on the number of ex-miners involved? According to the first figures we have received from sources, about 9,000 people are affected. It now appears that there are 16,000 cases, since ex-mine workers who have had something going on, such as invalidity or accident at work, or cases from Wallonia would also be included in the calculation. That's for our new information. Apparently, the FPD would say that for widows and for people living abroad, the adjustment will be done automatically. Normally, however, widows have to apply themselves. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u3	On 7 May 2020, Parliament adopted the law on the method of calculating the pension supplement of underground miners, which requires the recalculation of the pension of some 8,000 retired miners. The new method of calculation takes effect retroactively, so that the entitled persons obtain an adjustment of their pension amount for the past 10 years. In the case of former miners who have since died, the spouse or children who lived with the miner concerned at the time of death may request the possible arrears within 12 months of the publication of the new legislation in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u4	Madam President, as far as I am concerned, welcome to the new Minister for Pensions. Madam Secretary, I'll explain it to you immediately. In Limburg many miners join the computer to hopefully get news and clarity from you. In the previous period, however, we received different answers from the Minister than the miners themselves received. That is why they are waiting for your answers. I agree with the questions put by Mr Colebunders, but I do have a few other questions. Of course, the ex-miners are waiting for the late supplements, which they hope to get soon. They are worried because they are getting signals that the budget would not be provided for. We would like to hear from you whether there is a budget available. I would also like to see the current state of affairs. The miners were told by your predecessor that he was aiming for 31 March 2021 to complete this. In committee, he replied to my questions that it would be earlier by the end of 2021. The miners and we would like an update. I would like to hear from you how you feel about setting up a working group. The Federal Pension Service does not immediately provide additional staff, while it can absolutely receive assistance from representatives of the Mining Workers' Group. They have a lot of background that can be very useful. As far as widows are concerned, we have included in the law that they should start the file themselves. However, the Federal Pension Service says that this happens automatically. I am now concerned whether, if one of the widows arrives after 1 July 2021, she will still be able to get it. According to the law, it can't, according to the website of the Pension Service, she doesn't have to do anything now. We're a little worried about that, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we have made every effort with the administration to speed this up. It is true that this is a big and difficult file to carry out, but that is no reason not to. The miners must be given what they are entitled to, and this must be made clear quickly. The Federal Pension Service developed a two-stage execution. In the first phase, the applications were adapted and the file processors trained. Now the second phase begins, in particular the examination of all individual dossiers. About 16,000 files will be examined. This includes widows' files. This phase would be completed by the end of March 2021. The majority of the dossiers will be dealt with automatically. The social partners will be asked for advice in next week's management committee. That way, all administration is well taken care of. It's under control. In order to guarantee the maximum rights of miners, 10 years are taken back in time. As agreed with the delegation of the miners' circle of friends, the oldest dossiers will be dealt with first. It'll be as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u6	Madam Minister, that is welcome news, but there are still a lot of questions. Will the payout happen simultaneously? Or will the oldest files also be paid out first? I see you're confirming that. In that respect, we say chapeau. We'll keep an eye on this, along with the miners. Let us hope that after 30 years these miners will finally get what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Our parliamentary initiative was motivated by the concern we all have, in particular that the miners will get what they are entitled to after 30 years and they will not have to wait for years. I understand that everything has been put in place and that you are holding the deadline of late March to complete the files. A positive point is also that the files are processed automatically as much as possible and no additional administrative action is expected from the miners or their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u8	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the clear answers. I think a number of hearts have beaten faster, but now they will unwind, especially after your confirmation that the investigations will be completed by the end of March 2021. We are not yet paying out, but then we have no problem with the widows. If the widows are all informed by the end of March, then there will be a few months before anyone else turns up who is in doubt. It is also very good that you confirm that they will get those 10 years back. The oldest files first, these are the people who retired first, are not necessarily the oldest people. I would like to emphasise that. As for the outstretched hand of Miners for Work, that is a very active group that is in daily contact with us, but also with the many miners. Be sure to respond to their invitation to talk to them, because they have a direct line with the miners, but also with contracts that may be difficult to find.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u9	Madam Minister, the Michael I government raised the retirement age to 67 years and removed a large part of the retirement opportunities. 70,000 people were right to argue against the big retirement break. The government eased and promised an earlier retirement for the heavy professions. We discussed this with caution again last week. A solution has not been found, but it has been negotiated hard and a lot of ink has flowed over it. Who would be eligible to quit earlier? After lengthy consultations between trade unions, employers and the government, four criteria were established to determine what is a heavy occupation: heavy physical burden, safety risks, difficult duty schedules, night work and stress. What comes into place now is completely unclear. Are you planning to work out a regulation on the problem of the heavy-duty professions? Are the social partners involved in this? What happens to the four criteria that have been drawn up? Are they still being taken into account? What is your vision of the end of career, early retirement and workable work for 55-plussers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u10	Madam Minister, under the Michel administration a list of heavy professions was decided. The occupational categories in this list could include an early retirement pension before reaching the increased statutory retirement age. In 2018, the social partners and former Pension Minister Bacquelaine reached an agreement on a list of heavy-duty professions in the public sector. In particular, as regards the care sector, the list includes the following professions: nursing and nursing staff of hospitals; staff in the care and other institutions and services recognised by the government; mosquito and ambulance workers; educators and accompanying staff in the fields of youth care and community institutions; child care workers and childcare staff; and staff employed in the closed centres. However, the vast majority of these professions also exist in the private sector, and that is where the problem lies. In vain, the social partners and employers' organisations also tried to reach an agreement to draw up a list of heavy-duty professions for the private sector. At the end of 2018 the consultation ended and in 2020 there is still no agreement. A heavy occupation cannot be carried out until the age of 67. However, the nursing and nursing staff, as well as port workers, construction workers and many others engaged in a heavy occupation, meet the four criteria laid down by the previous government itself to be included in the list of heavy-duty occupations. Mr Colebunders mentioned them: physically heavy work, e.g. lifting loads, an incriminating work organisation with, for example, shift or night work, increased safety risk and mental and/or emotional stress. On 1 July, I questioned former Minister of Pension Bacquelaine about the state of play on the list of heavy-duty professions, in particular in the healthcare sector. Minister Bacquelaine's reply was: "The health crisis we were and are still facing confirms more than ever the need to recognise the heaviness of the profession of nursing and nursing staff in pension legislation. It is necessary to seek recognition of the heavy professions according to similar procedures in the three pension systems, in particular civil servants', employees' and self-employed pensions. This concern is all the more relevant as nursing staff are divided between these three systems." He concluded his speech with the hope that the reform, which was already at an advanced stage, could be continued by another fully-fledged government and that an agreement could be reached quickly by the social partners in the private sector. However, there is no trace of a specific pension scheme for heavy-duty occupations in the new coalition agreement. In addition, Prime Minister De Croo has made it clear that similar periods will also go on. This measure could have been taken over from the VLD programme and not only the heavy-duty professions, but also many other workers. This will be an attack on the pension of, above all, women and those who cannot make a continuous career. The question is whether the coalition partners will accept this. We certainly don't. It is therefore a pity and a missed opportunity that this government is apparently not going to work on the list of heavy-duty professions of workers, civil servants and self-employed persons. They have the right to be clear about their future, and they certainly do not deserve to be delayed. Madam Minister, why is the new government agreement no longer a specific pension rule for the heavy-duty professions? Does the government intend to resume the consultation on the list of heavy-duty professions where the consultation ended two years ago? Will the list of heavy-duty professions in the public sector be renegotiated, or will this list remain final? What concrete measures will be taken in the short term to respond to the heavy profession of care professional or care professional?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement does not mention the difficult jobs. Is it, Madam Minister, an oblivion or a choice assumed by the various parties of the Vivaldi? As a reminder, in May 2018 there was an agreement on the public sector with not only four criteria, but also an agreement on the list of professions level one to level four. Will this agreement be confirmed by the government and translated into royal decrees? What about a potential agreement at the private sector level from the public sector? Of course, it takes parallelism for the same trades. Is this a working basis that could be used to relaunch negotiations with the social partners? Or will the government – which, I imagine, will not be able to avoid translating the agreement of the public sector – itself proceed to assimilation for the private sector? I am also concerned by the fact that there are few women's occupations recognized as being painful. Is it not important in relation to this to consider a correction factor? This is all the more true since the Prime Minister spoke about the fact that there would be a deletion, or in any case an amendment, on the aspect of the assimilated periods. As you know, women would then be even more concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, working in a heavy occupation up to the age of 67 is impossible. Everyone agrees on that. The development of an exception for heavy-duty workers in the organization of work will also not shock anyone. There are already collective schemes in place today, which have been considerably reduced in recent years. We all agree. What has turned out to be less evident is the correct definition of what is a heavy occupation. It is a very subjective discussion, which must be objective. That is why I do not want to make statements today about who has a heavy occupation or who does not. You will have understood this, and I say it in French too; I am not going to decide here in Parliament and before this committee – I am of course sorry, ladies and gentlemen – what a painful job is or not. Why? That is why we want to look closely at this together with the Minister of Work and with the social partners in both the private sector and the public sector. Social consultation is mentioned everywhere in the government agreement, and it will not be a futile word. This will be a reality, both with the Minister of Labour and with the Minister of Pensions. However, watching alone will not suffice. We will also take measures to protect every citizen, with a good pension income but also at the appropriate time. As you understood it, there is also in the government agreement a major reform of pensions that I have to bring about in September 2021, but also a series of reforms in the labour market. It is a question of well-being at work, of fighting job exhaustion, of burn-out... It is in this context, with social consultations and with the social partners, that we will work. As regards the recognition of penitibility in the feminised sectors or in the female trades, as Mrs Fonck mentioned, these sectors and occupations are of particular interest to me. This is why taking into account the psychosocial burden – among other things, because the burden of work must also be taken into account – will play an important role in the discussion and definition of penitibility in social consultation. As I said, unequal situations such as those on the labour market for women do not resolve themselves in linear measures. Particular attention will be paid to the situation of women, both in pension and career reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u13	Thank you, Minister, you have answered our questions in detail. We are very pleased with that. You do understand, however, that if two days after the swearing-in a colleague of yours says in the press that today's heavy professions are in the wastebasket tomorrow, you are chasing the social partners against the ceiling. All right, that will be discussed, but I do not think it is correct to abolish the list of heavy-duty professions after two days. A solution-oriented approach is needed rather than abolishing heavy occupations. If one then communicates through the media, that will of course be very different. Please bear that in mind. You have just said that for many professions it is impossible to work for up to 67 years. We have had a study with Medicine for the People, together with some specialists from the health insurance funds. It came out that a third of people over 50 years of age are no longer able to carry out their profession as it should be done. One third can only do that with adjustments. For people over 55 years old, that's three times three. That's just absurd. I hope you will take that into account, because a heavy occupation, let us be honest, is only getting worse in these times. We must not forget the women of the healthcare sector. With hand clapping alone, we won't solve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u14	Madam Secretary, I am not so satisfied with your answer. At the time, the Michael administration raised the retirement age to 67 years, promising that this would not apply to those who have been at risk of mental and physical stress throughout their life. I do not believe that this promise will be accepted. You are talking about pension reforms in 2021, but as far as we are concerned, it is not understandable that nothing specific was included in the government agreement for the regulation of the heavy-duty professions. Prime Minister De Croo even felt it was necessary to inform the press that he had always warned that such a list of heavy professions would not succeed. More than that, he condone his verdict by stating that everyone finds their profession a heavy occupation. You'll report it yourself. You also think that "heavy profession" is a subjective fact. Explain that to a construction worker who has literally crooked himself in the wind and weather. Explain that to a port worker who's risking his life every day for his job, explain that to emergency workers who take serious risks to perform his or her job properly, especially in these corona times. Explain that to everyone who is now doing a job in the care sector. No, I don't think everyone thinks their profession is a heavy occupation. In the meantime, we all know what a heavy occupation it is, and by whom it is carried out. I am thinking primarily of the care sector, of our corona heroes. They have barely recovered from the impact of the first COVID-19 wave and are now facing the second wave. Many of those nurses and caregivers have just not succumbed to work and emotional pressure and are once again in front of us, for each of us, in the line of fire. The applause for the people in the front lines of care was well-intentioned and sweet, but caregivers are entitled to clarity about their future. They do not deserve long-term consultation and certainly not empty promises. You say it won't be empty promises. I therefore hope that you will sit with the social partners and certainly not tolerate empty promises. They do not deserve to be abandoned, while we should be taking extra care of the people in the care sector. Take responsibility and work on that list. Give those heroes and all workers in sectors where a heavy occupation is being pursued to which they are entitled. Not words, but deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u15	Minister, I have found your answer particularly ambiguous. You do not want to vote in committee on what a painful job is. At the same time, this means that you then set aside the agreement reached in May 2018 between the social partners in the public sector, which would normally apply on 1 January 2020. I find that this is a famous step backwards, which does not fail to question, and which sheds light on the absence of any trace of the arduous trades in the government agreement. You are linking pension reform with employment reform. This is clearly the long-standing line we have supported, with the importance of increasing both the employment rate and the employment rate for the 50-65 age group, but on the strict condition that we integrate both the painful trades and qualitative and quantitative adaptations of career ends. On the other hand, we agree on one point – but the actions will have to follow. This is the importance of having a correction factor for women, both in terms of the impact of pensions and, I hope, in terms of career development. I will, of course, come back very quickly to you with regard to this aspect of arduous trades, where the expectations are enormous. They are legitimate after the announcements, commitments and agreements that have made in relation to this vital issue for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u16	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for allowing me to ask my question, since my deposit was late. I hear your government's willingness to raise the lowest pensions; it is essential when you know that four out of ten pensioners live below the poverty line. I also hear your willingness to pay great attention to women, as well as to return to social dialogue. With the government we've had for five years, it's essential. You will have the support of my party in relation to all this. However, I remain on my hunger; indeed, you were expected to have a concrete commitment, not to list these painful jobs today – it is obviously impossible – but to list them in the coming months with the social partners, which would allow us to object and dissipate this debate. You have rightly stressed this need at the beginning of your speech. With respect to the public sector, Minister Bacquelaine had announced an ongoing reform that would have allowed workers, including nurses and caregivers who are particularly under pressure today, to multiply their career years by a factor of 1.15. I wonder what will happen to this reform. I didn't hear you in relation to that. I also hear that labour reform is coming; much is expected. You are certainly referring to what has been mentioned in your government agreement, i.e. the transfer of knowledge between generations; I think this is a way forward, among other things. But this will require tax incentives to enable employers to better train older people. Indeed, it is known that there is a reluctance to do so in some companies. We encourage you to dig all these leads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u17	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: The Chamber of Representatives, - heard the public committee meeting held on 21 October 2020 by Ms Ellen Samyn to the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Persons with Disabilities, Combating Poverty and Beliris, Ms Karine Lalieux on the state of play of the list of heavy professions; - having heard the Government's reply; - as there is no trace of a favourable pension scheme for heavy-duty occupations in the new coalition agreement; - having regard to the decision of the former Government to draw up a list of serious appeals; - whereas the social partners already reached agreement in 2018 on a list of heavy-duty professions in the public sector; - whereas a list of heavy-duty professions should also be listed as a matter of urgency for the private sector; - whereas the Covid-19 pandemic has shown that, among other things, jobs in the healthcare, logistics, port sector, etc. are serious professions; requests the Government, In consultation with both the private sector and the social partners, restart negotiations as soon as possible to draw up a list of heavy-duty professions. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: The House of Representatives, - having heard the inquiry sent on 21 October 2020 by Ms Ellen Samyn in public meeting of the committee to Mrs Karine Lalieux, Minister for Pensions, Social Integration, in charge of Disabled Persons and the Fight against Poverty and Beliris, on the status of the list of difficult occupations; - and the Government's response; - in view of the disappearance in the new government agreement of any reference to a preferential pension scheme for arduous occupations; - considering the previous executive's decision to draw up a list of difficult trades; - Considering that in 2018 the social partners had already agreed on a list of difficult trades in the public sector; - Whereas it is imperative that a similar list be drawn up for the private sector as a matter of urgency; - Whereas the VOCID-19 pandemic has shown that the professions in particular in the sectors of health care, logistics, port activities, etc. are arduous trades; asks the government, to relaunch negotiations as soon as possible with a view to establishing a list of arduous occupations in consultation with both the private sector and the social partners. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u18	Madam Minister, with the law of 6 September 2018 amending the regulation to strengthen adoption leave and introduce foster parents' leave, B.S. 26 September 2018, in addition to an improvement in adoption leave, foster parents' leave was introduced, with effect from 1 January 2019. This will allow workers who receive a child under age continuously in their families for at least 6 months to take 6 weeks' leave to make the foster child more accustomed and to give the family time to adapt to the new situation. In this respect, foster parents' leave must start within 12 months after the foster child has been registered at the address of the foster family. For the first three days, the foster parent receives the normal wage, for the remaining period a benefit due to sickness insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u19	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, I am certainly aware of the question. People who receive a foster child in their families should be supported. I find it unacceptable that the inclusion of foster leave today has a negative impact on the pension amount. That is why I immediately set this dossier in motion when I took office. The opinion of the social partners will be requested on the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service on 26 October. They have already expressed a positive opinion on this issue in the National Labour Council. I am therefore convinced that legal certainty for these people can be quickly regulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u20	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm relieved there's finally movement in this file. The foster leave was introduced in 2019. Afterwards, the equivalence for the annual holiday is arranged. The equalization for the pension was ready, but then the government fell and went into ongoing cases. Since I have been in Parliament, I have asked the previous Minister of Pensions several times to settle this. After all, everything was prepared, but it was postponed over and over again on the basis of current cases, although I did not consider that to apply to the previous government. I am extremely pleased that you recognise the importance of this. Taking care of foster children is a socially important task, a task to be appreciated. At present, foster parents sometimes do not take foster leave because of the impact this may have on their pension, while I think that we should just support people who make such a big commitment. Because it was too slow for me, I had already tabled a legislative proposal myself, so I am certainly prepared to deliver it to you, but I hope that it can move forward more quickly through the government and after the agreement of the social partners and that the foster parents, who have been waiting for it for almost two years, will finally get an equal treatment for their retirement and with confidence can take their foster child into their families and get used to the new situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u21	Colleagues, Mrs Van Peel had a request. She is on another committee stuck for votes and we know that there are many committees today. She asked whether her question could be postponed, but for that I need Mr Colebunders to agree, too, since two of his questions were joined.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u22	Madam Secretary, the poverty groups in our country are calling the bell. The networks (BAPN and the Walloon network) fight poverty appeal against the COOVID 19 grant (50 euros/month for six months for wage-earners, beneficiaries of an Income Guarantee for Older People (IGO) and people with disabilities).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u23	The meetings with the network of associations are a priority for me. I wish to pursue a coordinated policy on poverty reduction. You know that I believe that we can only achieve nothing. In this connection, I will meet the BAPN on Friday. The 50 euro monthly allowance is indeed intended to support the most vulnerable groups already dependent on the social assistance scheme. However, we note that in view of the duration of the corona crisis, the financial and social situation for many of our citizens is becoming very precarious. To this end, the OMCWs received a special COVID-19 grant of €125 million. This fund enables the OMCWs to provide financial support to new groups of people who saw their income fall seriously as a result of the crisis. In my previous position, I supported the creation of this fund. Moreover, the decision taken by Parliament last week to extend the measure until the end of 2021 is an essential element that will enable OMCWs to assist their target audience in the most appropriate way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is nice to hear that you also think it is important to meet the partners and that you will see the BAPN on Friday. I would like to point out one more element. Although we have provided EUR 125 million for the OMCWs in order to provide additional support to people, we see that the OMCWs do not get all of this arranged. It is good that we have decided that the OMCWs will have the time until next year, but that does not always reach the people who need it. Indeed, it is assumed that people with particularly low incomes know that they can ask for additional support to the OMCW, but most people do not know that. In this respect, I do not find the question of the Belgian network to be illogical. For other target groups, such as those with an income guarantee for the elderly, people with disabilities or those with a living wage, we automated this so that they were directly awarded the 50 euro. In the same way, it is important that we also give the EUR 50 to people from whom we as a government know that they have an income that is sometimes as low as that of people on a living wage. We could also grant that automatically. Madam Minister, I hope, first of all, that you will have a good talk with the BAPN on Friday, but I have no doubt. Secondly, I would ask you to consider granting EUR 50 for those specific target groups, for example those who are disabled or those who are unemployed in the lowest scales, so that they will automatically receive this allowance. Those concerned do not know what they are entitled to. If that allowance does not happen automatically, those who need it most will not receive it. In the meantime, we must await the court's decision. The court will have to assess whether or not there is discrimination. In the meantime, I would like to ask you to consider whether this 50 euro grant can also be granted automatically to other target groups. In addition, we have included in the government agreement that we must increase benefits for all groups up to the poverty line. The additional EUR 50 grant could already be a step towards the European poverty line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u25	In 2019 - pre-covid time - a record figure was already achieved with 170,000 people using food aid on a monthly basis. The increase in the number of people using food banks is increasing year after year, but in the meantime the number of people using food aid has also increased dramatically because of covid. For many people before the corona crisis, the water was already on the lips, they are now having an extra hard time getting around.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u26	Madam President, Ms Samyn, in 2019, FEAD products represented 40% of the food products distributed by food banks. This confirms that the demand for food aid is still high. You know that the federal government has allocated additional budgets to meet the increase in demand as a result of the health crisis. Unfortunately, this is not yet over and the data from the food banks show an additional increase in the number of users. Additional measures will therefore be taken. As regards your question about contacts with regional and European colleagues, there is effective consultation. The European Commission has made additional resources available to combat the effects of the corona crisis, and in November we will know how much resources will be allocated to Belgium in this context. Once we know what amount Belgium will receive, we will discuss its distribution with the regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u27	Madam Secretary, I am delighted with your answer. It is good that there will be consultation to ensure that the right means go to the right people. The number of users of the food banks has been rising for years and, unfortunately, during this corona crisis, the situation is dramatic. With winter on our doorstep, we must not forget the most vulnerable. I therefore hope that this will be followed up properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u28	The SPI exemption is specifically intended for wage-earners who start working or are undergoing vocational training, while the aim of the GPMI is much wider. Therefore, the number of wage-earners of both measures evolves in a different way. There is no point in comparing the two. In collaboration with the Federal Planning Bureau, experts from the FPS Social Security and the Federation of OCMWs, we will investigate the pertinence of the SPI exemption in the context of the activation of life labourers. I agree with you that the Crossroads Bank of Social Security is interesting in assessing the impact of the measures. The application will be submitted in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u29	The intersection is good news. For your policy paper, I would like to insist that the reform of the socio-professional exemption should also be considered. Your predecessor was already planning that, but not much of it has come into the house. My proposal on the subject is ready. I believe that the current system can certainly be improved. For now, it's gonna be heavily underutilized. Hopefully, many more people will be able to use it in the future. For many people on a living wage it can be absolutely a positive way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u30	Madam President, Minister, the Remi tool is an online tool that allows the OCMWs to calculate a reference budget tailored to the client's needs. This was put forward in the coalition agreement. My question is whether there will also be more federal funding for OMCWs who want to provide additional support on the basis of the Remi tool. If so, how will the federal government ensure that the REMI tool and these additional resources are correctly used by the OCMWs and that there will not again be very large differences between one OCMW and the other? That is, of course, a tension between their own decision-making right and the responsibility they have, but it is an important field of tension. Perhaps even more importantly, the coalition agreement states: "That is why the government encourages the OMCWs to provide additional financial support for households with insufficient income on the basis of the REMI system, as developed by the Centre for Budget Advice and Research, whether it is an income from assistance, benefit or employment. The additional financial support presupposes participation in a tailor-made activation pathway, and then it is in brackets "whether or not via the existing GPMI"." I have some questions about what I read in there. I know this sometimes happens on the French-speaking side, but in Flanders we think differently about it across party boundaries. Can you confirm that the GPMI will be maintained for all new living wage applications? This is a very important and good system for the activation of people with a living wage, and also for social activation. I agree that this calls for a certain evaluation, so that we could improve that system a little bit. I understand from your predecessor that this evaluation is under way. The results should be known by now. So two questions. First of all, that system will be preserved, won't it? Secondly, what are the results of the evaluation so that we can make improvements if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u31	Mrs Van Peel asked two questions in one, if I am not mistaken, with PIIS, but there was also that question. So I propose to answer about the REMI system, and then the PIIS/GPMI system. I will first answer the questions about the REMI tool and then the questions about the GPMI. Mrs Van Peel, the ambition expressed in the coalition agreement is to make the REMI tool available to all Belgian OMCWs in order to increase the equal treatment of users within and between OCMWs. The concrete modalities for achieving this are currently being examined by my administration. Attention is also paid to the alignment with other social benefits and other instruments available to OMCWs to achieve the right to social integration. Additional financial resources will be made available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u32	Mrs Van Peel, for the replies, it seems to me more interesting to do them together because Mr Colebunders also has a question about PIIS/GPMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u33	Madam President, keeping everything in line here is exactly a tough delivery. It's a good thing we have a chairman. Madam Minister, your predecessor, Mr Ducarme, had already commissioned, at the end of last year, a thorough evaluation of the GPMI, the Individualised Project for Social Integration. The evaluation is very important to us, especially since the federal government and local authorities regard the GPMI as an important tool in the fight against poverty. The stories that reach us raise questions for our group, for example whether the GPMI is used in the same way everywhere. People with a living wage are, of course, entitled to the same treatment, whether they live in Charleroi, Schaerbeek or with me in Genk. There's more. People are regularly imposed conditions that are not feasible, at least not without additional guidance. We also received reports about people who were sanctioned without warning. It's simple: this can't be done. For the PVDA, the living wage is in the first place a right and a last safety net. The terms and conditions of the GPMI must never be broken. Madam Minister, will you actively keep track of the number of sanctions and suspensions, their nature, the reason and duration, and municipal or regional differences? What will you do to guarantee the rights of the growing number of people on a living wage? Has the evaluation of the GPMI been completed? Do you draw any conclusions from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u34	Madam Minister, the floor is yours. The replicas will come next.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u35	As you know, the previous government implemented a reform of the GPMI in 2016. One of the amendments concerns the obligation to format all new files. Two years after this reform, a study was launched to evaluate the implementation of this reform in practice. This investigation is ongoing. Final results are expected by March 2021. As a function of the results of this, I will see if any adjustments are needed to make the GPMI a more performant guidance tool. As far as the activation of living wages is concerned, in my policy, as defined in the government agreement, I have the ambition to encourage and help wage-earners to move to work. That is one of the essential factors of emancipation. I do not have figures on the number of sanctions or information on their nature, because the current coding of the data does not allow for the collection of information on this issue. Today, therefore, I cannot answer. I'll see with the administration, but there's no data to date, Mr. Colebunders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You cited an important pain point at the end of your answer. I have often asked questions about this in the previous legislature. It is true that certain data are not recorded today, which could be very important to really evaluate it and to see the evolutions and usefulness of the GPMI. I am glad to hear that the concept is not questioned by this government. I am a little less pleased to hear that the evaluation is taking longer than we had hoped. I agree, however, that improvements can certainly be made for use. I look forward to March so that we can have that debate to the full. I miss in your answer about the Remi tool and the additional budget for it, how we will ensure that the responsibility of the OMCWs is taken into account. There must also be sufficient control. This has to be done in a similar way. I assume that we will be able to discuss this further in your policy plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u37	There are no figures yet on the use of this tool for integration into work or job search. Certain very important rights are not just to be solved at individual level. It is impossible to live in many cities or there are few good, affordable homes. This is certainly the case in major city center cities. The waiting lists are sometimes hugely long. That's a big problem. Making contracts and forcing people personally to find a home will, of course, not solve that problem. It is therefore careful with these conditions and the sanctions. The same applies to work. It is therefore very important that they are applied correctly. We will certainly come back to this. We await the March evaluation and hope to get information on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u38	Madam Minister, reception parents who are members of a recognised reception parents service have a sui generis status since 1 April 2003. This led them to apply the various branches of social security for workers such as unemployment, family allowances and pension schemes. They did not build up pension rights for 2003 due to their precarious status. Accommodation parents approaching retirement age and already working as a reception parent for 2003 are thus faced with too low pension levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u39	Madam President, Ms Lanjri, reception parents worked with some sort of reimbursement until 2003. They are not traceable in the career records kept by Sigedis because they fell outside social security. The government agreement provides that the status of reception parents will be evaluated. We do not want and cannot anticipate this. In any case, I will consult with the representatives of the sector. The social partners are once again a core partner in this evaluation. You know my struggle for strong social protection for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u40	Madam President, Minister, you know that many families are counting on reception parents to take care of their children. The work they do is really necessary. It is good that a statute was introduced in 2003. It is also okay that the coalition agreement agreed to evaluate that statute. In this context, we must ensure that the years they worked for 2003 also count for their pensions. Otherwise, those welcome parents, especially the older ones, have only a very small pension. Your predecessor, Minister Bacquelaine, suggested to work through a contribution they themselves have to pay. That could be a piste. I myself have also tabled a legislative proposal to take into account the years they can prove. Madam Minister, I hope that we will be able to clarify these reception parents about their retirement as soon as possible. Many of them are already retired or are about to retire. No one deserves to have a very small pension after a lifetime of hard work. I really think it is necessary for us to find a solution for these reception parents. That is why I propose that you do that evaluation quickly and at the same time look at my bill and, if necessary, look at other slopes. I am not saying that mine is the only proposal we have to look at. There may also be another solution. However, we need to find a solution for that target group, especially if they can demonstrate that they worked those years before 2003. We have also offered other people opportunities such as buying off pension years. This used to only exist for civil servants, but was now also made possible for employees. I think that a scheme should also be sought for the retirement years of reception parents. I hope that you will agree with that and that we will be able to clarify this very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u41	Madam Secretary, the website of the Federal Pension Service states that checks on the IGO procedure have been further suspended. The previous Minister for Pensions had suspended it until the end of August, but had also indicated in the committee that it would continue to suspend it as long as social disruption and other security measures remained in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u42	Mrs. Willaert is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u43	Madam Minister, as you know, there has been a lot of debate over the last few months on the control procedure for elderly people with IGO benefits. Both in the press and here in Parliament. Because of the corona crisis, the former pension minister temporarily suspended the checks. It also announced an evaluation of the measures. From the hearings on this subject, we in the PVDA have, in particular, remembered the following. Although tens of thousands of older people were checked in the course of 2019, less than a percentage of them were found to have committed infringements. That makes us decide it is time for a thorough amendment to the Royal Decree establishing a general regulation on the guarantee of income for the elderly. Article 42 (4) obliges the federal government to check at least 80% of the IGA beneficiaries annually.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the IGO is the last social safety net for our elderly. They are therefore in a very fragile situation. Their benefits are well below the poverty line. Not only are they financially vulnerable, many of them are in real isolation due to COOVID-19. We can't go abroad right now. We are therefore suspending the control procedure until the end of the year. An official letter to that effect was addressed to the Federal Pension Service. The coalition agreement states that we will evaluate this procedure and we will do so soon. That is why I will ask the social partners for an opinion on this in the FPD's management committee in November. This is a very important dossier for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I think this is indeed very important. These are very vulnerable people with very low incomes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u46	Mrs. Vanrobaeys, we can't hear you well, can you step back a little bit of your microphone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u47	These are very vulnerable people, who were asked by the poverty organisations to suspend the procedure as long as security measures are in place. That group of people is older and has all kinds of health problems. If, as part of the control procedure, they have to move to the town hall by public transport, it is not evident to all of them in this COOVID period. They wanted to shield them from possible contamination. In this sense, it is good that the IGA procedure is suspended until the end of the year. I also wonder whether the people who are entitled to an IGO will be informed of this in one way or another. Those people may not be looking directly at the website of the Federal Pension Service. Will efforts be made, if necessary through local authorities, to ensure that people know not to sit at home waiting for the mailman? That was the problem before: people didn't even dare to go to the market or get hit by physical problems very slowly up to the front door, and were afraid to miss the postman. Of course, I am pleased that it is a priority to evaluate the procedure and that it is being carried out quickly. These are indeed people with benefits below the poverty line. In this procedure they are incredibly hunted. I thought that was a rather scandalous procedure towards the elderly. There was a legislative proposal in Parliament, and I had tabled amendments, and we also held a hearing on it. Perhaps these elements can be taken into account in the evaluation and discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u48	Madam Secretary, I referred to my questions. I didn't really get an answer to two questions. It is a good thing that you suspend this until the end of the year, but let us be honest: the epidemic will last longer than until the end of the year. You have said very carefully that the dossier is close to your heart and that you will evaluate it. Does this mean that the suspension will continue to apply for as long as it takes, or will it come after that? I refer briefly to the unanswered questions. Do you agree that it does not make sense to check that 80% annually? I hear that between the lines, but it's not really clear. Also very important, are your services today technically and staff able to organize the verification of the presence on the territory largely via data matching? If not, what else is needed to make this feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u49	Madam President, Minister, Telenet wants to offer a basic Internet service of EUR 5 per month to 10,000 vulnerable families by the end of next year. A pilot project will be launched in December in Mechelen, among others. The telecom company will work with OCMWs, education, social and civil society organisations. The target audience consists of vulnerable groups who have no or very limited internet connection at home. The legal social tariff remains in place, but this initiative also aims to reach out to other people who are not covered by the social tariff. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is Telenet's idea a piste that you will further explore in order to be able to offer a basic consumer internet service, and specifically for vulnerable groups, in addition to the social tariff system? Would such initiatives not be better directed by the government rather than by a private company? If so, will you take the initiative to draw this towards you? Do you intend to ask other operators as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, the initiative of telecom operator Telenet provides a partial response to a real problem. The digital divide has already proved to be important during the current health crisis. However, the latter has shown once again the importance of finding a solution as soon as possible for all families who do not have access to the Internet or computer and the uncertainty that this entails. Children from families living in poverty are faced with conditions that make home education difficult. A transversal and multidisciplinary approach is needed to respond to this digital divide, which accentuates social inequality. My administration is therefore preparing a federal action plan to combat poverty, in cooperation with civil society and with people in poverty. I will also work with my colleagues, Minister of Public Enterprises Petra De Sutter, and Secretary of State for Digitalization Mathieu Michel, to further develop the system of social tariffs in telecom services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u51	Madam Minister, we are, of course, looking forward to your federal action plan to combat poverty. I think it is interesting that the idea of a basic Internet service should be developed further. In the meantime, some cities and municipalities may be able to avail themselves of the Telenet pilot project, although there are still some problems with it. For example, it is not certain whether the people who do belong to the target group and most often need access to the Internet will be able to take advantage of Telenet's offer because, for example, they have outstanding debts. Some people also have other ongoing telecom contracts and will not be able to cancel them immediately. They are not aware of the consequences either. I hope, however, that the Federal Action Plan will be able to include something on the provision of basic Internet services for vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u52	I rarely do that, Madam President, but I just want to say that compared to the entire digital divide, CPAS can use the 115 million to buy computers, to pay for internet connections. There is already a solution that can be put in place directly by CPAS. It's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u53	Mrs. Reynaert, is that okay for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u54	That's right. That's how we do it locally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u55	Madam Minister, as the Federal Minister for Social Integration, you are responsible for the convening and chairing of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Social Integration and Social Economy. It has been a long time since it came together. In order to develop a strong social policy during this corona crisis, several organisations are asking for a joint package of social measures to be developed through an inter-ministerial conference. The need for this became clear last week. A study of the Socialist Mutualities shows that the excess mortality rate for low-income older people, i.e. with an increased benefit, is three times higher than for high-income people. We are concerned about these figures. Under the previous government, the poverty organisations provided a lot of input on improving the situation of people in poverty in corona times. Unfortunately, so far, very little has been done about this. A conference with all policy-makers based on the findings and recommendations of experts and especially of people in poverty and their organisations themselves can change this. Madam Minister, are you prepared to take the initiative and ensure that such a conference can take place within the next few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u56	I share your concern about the conclusions of the Solidaris study. These findings further motivate me to pursue an ambitious anti-poverty policy. I also believe that the coordinated anti-poverty policy, in consultation with stakeholders, including experience experts and the BAPN, which I see on Friday, as well as with the sub-areas, is a determining factor for effectiveness. The Presidency of the IMC is held by the German-speaking Community and Wallonia. It is therefore up to them to take an initiative. Nevertheless, in the coming weeks, I will contact the authorities concerned to establish an agenda in which I want to play a role. I'm not the president of the IMC. It's not a federal minister. I am already paying particular attention to the follow-up to the work of the Vulnerable Groups Task Force in which many associations sit, with whom I also have conversations. To convene the IMC, I have to wait for Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u57	Madam Secretary, you still have some work to do. You have already begun to do that, for which I would like to thank you. It is always a priority for us to involve people from civil society and people in poverty. We must continue to play an enormous role here if we are to tackle poverty with two hands in the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to talk about something close to my heart. For some 20 years now, poverty associations in this country have been working with experience experts. These are people who have had their own setbacks in life, but who learn to process and use their experiences for the benefit of their peers. Their input is a third source of knowledge about poverty and poverty reduction, alongside that of social sciences and experienced social workers. I attach great importance to their input. I also note that we agree on this, because in the coalition agreement I read, I quote: 'People in poverty are an essential voice as experts of experience. We are therefore working on a participatory policy that talks to them, rather than on them. What reassures me less is that two weeks ago Flemish Minister of Education Ben Weyts (N-VA) announced that he is drying out the subsidies from 2 of the 4 Flemish training pathways to experience expert in poverty, in Antwerp and Hasselt. Among other things, the Flemish Minister talks about a lack of efficiency in training, which would offer too few opportunities for employment. Even if it is a Flemish competence, I would have liked to ask you a few questions. How many experience experts are currently working in the various federal administrations? Are you prepared, in consultation with your colleagues in the government, to make an effort in the coming years to increase that number? Do you see an opportunity to provide support from the federal government to associations that are committed to training and coaching experience experts? We think that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u59	I very much appreciate the experience experts in poverty and social exclusion. I am counting on their contribution to making an ambitious federal policy a success, particularly in the context of the 4th Federal Plan on Combating Poverty. As you have already noted, this has been included in the coalition agreement. At the moment 54 employees are working on the methodology 'experience expert'. In implementing the coalition agreement, I will present to my fellow Members projects on the recruitment of new experience experts, in particular in the context of access to health care. As you know, the communities are responsible for education for social promotion and continuing education. Those are not my powers. I am also very sorry that the training of experience experts in the Flemish Community is under threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u60	Madam Minister, I fully agree that there is little you can do to dry out certain training courses in the Flemish Community. Their argument for the prohibition states that there are few places for people as an experienced expert. We are Belgians and if we can bring forward jobs in which people can work as an experienced expert, we can do beautiful things together with Flanders. Then we can also argue that these training courses must continue. We have a lot of experience and these people can therefore dig much deeper. The OMCWs are your competence and I think you agree that experience experts can be employed there. We have many beautiful examples of this. I'm just gonna give you a tip. Do you agree to a target of at least ten new jobs per year for experience experts? It's not up to us to put numbers on that. However, if we have a start, we can increase the pressure to employ more experience experts in the field and to allow the training courses to interact in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u61	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your new, very important position. In this context, I have prepared a welcome package with nine questions. I do not need to convince you that we are on the verge of an ageing peak. You are expected to submit a concrete reform proposal on pensions to the Council of Ministers by 1 September 2021. Perhaps my questions are a little premature and I should repeat them over the course of the year. Have you already started the preparation? Will you draw up a reform proposal yourself or do you expect the social partners or possibly any other body, such as the ageing committee, to do so? Do you already have a concrete path in mind to come up with a detailed and calculated proposal by 1 September 2021, which takes into account all the needs for adjustment as well as all the principles to be respected? Finally, I have a more specific question, which raises the coalition agreement with me. On the one hand, we are talking about safeguarding the rights of pensioners, but on the other hand, solidarity between the highest and the lower pensions will be strengthened. How will you reconcile both seemingly opposing principles?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u62	Madam President, pension reform is an important issue. As underlined by the government agreement in several places, this reform, like many others, is being implemented in consultation with the social partners. In view of the strict timing of the government agreement, contacts have already been established with the administration to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u63	Madam Minister, you answered my first and second questions, possibly the third, but I did not receive an answer to the last, more specific question. Can't you answer that yet? Does that depend on the social consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u64	We will work with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u65	Also as regards the aspect in my last question? However, there is the passage in the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u66	That goes for all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u67	Perhaps we will hear the answer in your policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u68	No, no, my answer applies to all questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u69	So you refer to the social dialogue. I wish you every success and strength in this social dialogue. Hopefully, that consultation will contribute constructively in the light of the date you imposed on 1 September 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u70	Madam Minister, this question is in line with Mr Samyn's question. You have already answered a number of questions, but I have a few more detailed questions. With regard to European support for food banks, the European Council decided in June 2020 that EUR 47.5 billion would go to the REACT-EU package. This money may go to the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived (FEAD.) You have already replied that the envelope that will flow to Belgium will not be published until November. My question is whether the federal administration has already made an estimate of how much Belgium will receive, as the European Commission has already announced the allocation method. There is, of course, still a need for consultation with the Länder. REACT-EU consists of three Funds: ERDF, ESF and FEAD. A solution must be found with the Länder who gets what. I understand that there has already been consultation between the federal government and the Länder, but I would like to hear what progress has been made. Will additional funding be provided for FEAD? Will the federal administration modify the current operational programme? Or is a new program being created? So where are we on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u71	At the moment, I do not have a view on the envelope to be allocated to Belgium. The distribution between Member States will be made at European level, at the end of October, when all the information is available. Negotiations on the intra-Belgian distribution of these funds have not yet started. Indeed, it is clear that the European Commission expects a significant part of the funds to be allocated to the FEAD. The administration is preparing an adjustment of the operational programme as it is the quickest way to use the available resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u72	Thank you for your answer. We will have to wait until the end of October or the beginning of November for a decision to be made within Belgium. I hope that progress can be made on this dossier, because I understand that it is necessary to launch the procedure for a new public procurement procedure by December 2020 so that the food banks can continue to operate. I look forward with you to seeing how much Belgium will receive from European funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u73	Madam President, Madam Minister, in its report of 15 October 2020, the Court of Auditors is quite critical of the way in which the Federal Pension Service organises its payment and control processes. Allow me to summarize the conclusion. The Court of Auditors has examined the process of payments and the booking of pensions with the Federal Pension Service. Internal control measures have weaknesses. This control environment is characterised by the lack of permanent operational objectives and specific indicators to frame the payment process and to ensure its quality. A clearly defined IT security policy is also lacking. The management of the process suffers from several shortcomings: there is no process ownership, the operational services do not recognise the IT control measures and there is insufficient reporting to allow horizontal control of the process. The Court of Auditors also carried out checks and tests on the 2019 payment and booking data. It concerns 29 million payments of some EUR 50 billion. The results show that it is relevant and useful for the FPD to carry out ex-post controls. The Court of Auditors recommends that the FPD identify and describe all its process control measures, evaluate them through risk analysis and coordinate and centralise them. Madam Minister, in this context I have the following questions. First of all, do you acknowledge the problems the Court of Auditors has identified in its latest report? Of course, they are asking for very quick interventions, preferably already in the current year 2020. Secondly, the Federal Pension Service had already promised direct actions in its reply of 14 August 2020. What is the status of his action plan today? Thirdly, are there any additional corrective actions that you will take in your capacity as Minister of Pensions yourself? Fourthly, do you have any idea of the budgetary impact of, among other things, incorrect payments and social fraud of the FPD's weak control mechanism? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u74	Mr Van der Donkt, I can give a very technical answer to your question, but I would like to avoid that. What I want to say on the matter is this. It is essential that the process of payment and the booking of pensions at the Federal Pension Service is flawless. In 2020 and 2019, the Federal Pension Service and the Court of Auditors worked together to prepare the Social Security Book. That is a must and is therefore a good thing. After all, one has to work together to improve. It is a complex process with a robust IT system. I would also like to mention that no test carried out by the Court of Auditors has led to an incorrect payment. My administration is already preparing an overall action plan to introduce additional control mechanisms where necessary. This Action Plan will be monitored and updated periodically. During the corona period, the FPD demonstrated that the continuity of services and the execution of contracts, in particular pension payments to 2.5 million pensioners, was ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is somewhat reassuring that you are following this dossier closely. I will continue to follow this up myself and will ask a follow-up question within four months to see how far you stand with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u76	Today we still have numerous self-functioning social inspection services and even an umbrella body SIOD (Social Intelligence and Investigation Service).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u77	Mr Van der Donkt, the Federal Pension Service employs a full-time social fraud coordinator. In addition, there is a working group in which employees from different departments work together. The staff of the operational departments and of the dispute department also participate in the fight against social fraud and the handling of social fraud files. Since July 2019, the FPD has been working with Bpost to determine whether IGO beneficiaries fulfil the residence condition. The FPD is a member of the SIOD, the social inspection, and thus contributes to a common approach to social fraud. For my part, I attach great importance to the fight against social fraud, as do my administration. That is why they are currently working with the social inspection to see how they can play a more active role in their functioning in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u78	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u79	Madam President, Madam Minister, during previous hearings in the Chamber on the extension of co-vid subsidies for OMCWs, we heard that the number of applications for a living wage is increasing. Yesterday, for example, that became clear again in the city council of Genk, of which I am a member. According to the UVCW, the Walloon Federation of Cities and Municipalities, the increase could be 15% for 2021. The Court of Auditors compares it to 2009, the year after the financial crisis, which we all remember, and estimates the increase next year at 10%. In both cases, this is significant. In the meantime, the workload of the OCMW staff is also increasing. That is what all our Members of Parliament are getting testimonies about. However, the administrative burden is more than a temporary phenomenon, which has been a general one for years. At the same hearing it was explained to us that in many cases the way OCMW's living wages should apply to the federal government can be simpler. For example, every living wage application does not require the same level of accountability. Madam Secretary, do you know this problem? Are you willing to opt for administrative simplification that goes towards the automation of certain applications? If so, can you put a timing on the changes in the current procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u80	Mr Colebunders, the right to social integration is a category of law that cannot be granted automatically. Social research is essential to meet the person's needs as well as possible. That is why we will develop various tools that give the OMCWs access to the necessary data. This will simplify the social work and thus the award of living wages. I'll talk about my experience. I was president of the CPAS and we know that we need to work on simplification of procedures, administrative simplification and better IT tools for all of our CPAS. I'll get to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u81	Madam Minister, I am glad to hear that we are on the same page. We look forward hopefully to this administrative simplification and hope that these people will really be helped. They also have problems with the workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u82	Madam Minister, I have a series of questions arising from SIOD's Action Plan on Social Fraud 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u83	Mr Van der Donkt, after an impact analysis, the FPD has decided that this action is no longer appropriate. The impact of the extension of the recovery period in the case of fraud is minimal. The collection of this burden of proof is not evident.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u84	Madam Minister, I can follow the argument that there is little impact, but with the argument of the burden of proof, I find it a little more difficult. I've heard your answer and will take it with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u85	One of the strategic objectives of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service (SIOD) and I quote from the 2020 Action Plan on Social Fight against Fraud (Action 32).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u86	On 1 July 2019, the old IGO control procedure was replaced in accordance with the Royal Decree of 30 March 2018. Since then, the FDP has sent a control document to the IGO beneficiaries at least once a year. The issuing of the control document shall be carried out by the postman in the hands of the IGO holder on presentation of his identity card. This procedure has already been assessed globally and the results have been presented to the FDP Management Committee. The Management Committee will be asked for its opinion in November. We want to review the control procedure in order to ensure proportionality. The COVID-19 pandemic has suspended controls from mid-March until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u87	Thank you for your answer. I will come back to this in February if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u88	One of the strategic objectives of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service (SIOD) and I quote from the 2020 Action Plan on Social Fight against Fraud (Action 32). I quote: "By linking the data from the own databases and the external databases and with the exchange of data with external bodies, an automatic detection of social fraud can be carried out. The existing automatic processes to detect unlawful benefits were refined in the course of 2017-2019. The study to refine these processes will continue in 2020. Consultation with the other OISZ regarding: Best practices will also be launched in this framework in 2020. What is the status of this improvement project and the adoption of best practices from other OISZ? How do you explain, despite the sentence that in the period 2017-2019 the processes were already seriously refined, the destructive report of the Court of Auditors of mid-October 2020? Will you take further action as Minister for Pensions to strengthen data mining in the detection of social fraud in pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u89	Madam President, Mr Van der Donckt, I answered all the questions in Dutch. Since this question is so technical, can I answer you in French? I'm not gonna lie to you. I never lie. I'm discovering the material. So, explain this to you in Dutch, it won't be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u90	That's good, but I'll get the written version of your answer later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u91	No problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u92	Fantastic!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u93	What a deal!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u94	This concerns the principle of the matching of data on which the FPD (Federale Pensioendienst) places a strong emphasis. Reference can be made to the PUB project, which means that all payments are now managed by a single system, thereby reducing the risk of fraud and error. In addition, many data matching projects are under way with other government institutions, which in turn will contribute to the detection of social fraud. For example, we can refer to the Belcotax and Consultimmo data streams with the Finance FPS. These will include information on income tax returns and real property and will be used in GRAPA livelihood research. The elements of the action plan to which you refer are the improvement of the existing functioning through process integration and the gradual increase in electronic data exchange. On the other hand, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in the above-mentioned audit concern the internal control environment and the management of related processes. The very radical changes in the functioning and organization of the FPD in recent years have led not only to a change in the overall internal control environment but also to a complete reinvention. The FPD has been and continues to be involved in this work and will therefore also take at heart the complementary recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In this context, the "devast" qualification seems largely exaggerated. Currently, priority is on matching data as the FPD sees the largest gains in the short term. Data matching is one of the most effective and efficient ways to detect and prevent social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u95	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u96	Madam Minister, one of the strategic objectives of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service (SIOD) and I quote from the Social Anti-Fraud Action Plan 2020, in the context of a common and targeted European approach to social fraud and social dumping, better cross-border cooperation between the social inspection services of several Member States (Action 49).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u97	Mr Van der Donckt, as you said, it is also a technical question: your question No 55009874C is related to No 55009903C. Anyway, I'll answer you. The exchange of European data is a key priority. Indeed, an exchange of personal data allows for administrative simplification and also constitutes a tool in the prevention of fraud. Two key tools are EESSI (Electronic Exchange of Social Security Information) and BEX (Bilateral Exchange). The latter is an electronic exchange of dates of death between the Federal Pension Service (FPS) and foreign jurisdictions. In addition, it replaces the paper life certificate. EESSI should, in turn, become a secure electronic network linking social security institutions. The system allows the exchange of data with foreign social security agencies. This means that the granting of a pension of foreign influence is accelerating. It is also a very effective tool in the fight against social fraud. Since 2020, the SFP has been able to send and receive requests for social security data to all European countries that are themselves ready. We want to expand and develop BEX and EESSI in 2021. Thus, the administration wishes to focus on negotiations with countries such as Spain where pension benefits are paid. These elements are also reflected in the action plan to combat social fraud of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u98	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have no additional reply. I'll analyze your answer when I see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u99	Madam Minister, one of the strategic objectives of the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service (SIOD) and I quote from the Action Plan on Social Fight against Fraud 2020... is, in the context of increasing the impact of social inspection services, to optimise the quarterly reporting of the Federal Pension Service (Action 36).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u100	Mr Van der Donkt, reporting is important, measuring is knowing. That is why I am pleased to announce that the improvement project has been implemented. Since June 2019, the FPD has an integrated tool, Theseos, to track cases of social fraud. In this way, the FPD can identify the treatment, follow-up and results of fraud cases through the application, employees can report a suspicion or evidence of social fraud for which an investigation has been initiated, or a finding of social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u101	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I welcome the fact that social fraud in pensions is being taken seriously and that you are concerned about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u102	Minister, with the second wave of the health crisis on our territory, we can anticipate new risks and needs for people who, so far, had never called on CPAS assistance. One hundred and ten million euros were released in June 2020 by your predecessor. We greeted him. Although, a few days ago, the delays in the use of these means were extended, there is a strong bet that, as of today, CPAS will be asked to intervene urgently towards people in a dangerous financial situation. Minister, do you already have some figures on the amounts already spent on this overall envelope that has been announced? In addition, could you indicate what human resources will be made available to strengthen CPAS? This has already been discussed. This is in order to be able to receive and process all new aid applications. But also, and perhaps that is what there may not yet be a response to today, to make the rights known to those who generally do not know that aid is available to them? Have you imagined a device to support those entitled to pass through the door of the CPAS, a symbolic step that is sometimes known very – too – difficult for some?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u103	Mrs Leroy, vulnerable groups and all those at risk of falling into poverty will not fall into oblivion and will not be invisible to me. Because of the loss of income due to the crisis and the increase in expenditure, I see that the needs are immense. And we see it through the food aid explosion. I was until recently... Oh, isn't that the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u104	There are two.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u105	Oh, yes, there are two. I'm sorry. Because the subject is almost identical. There is a connection, and so I thought I answered these questions completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u106	There is a real concern, but it has two different repercussions. But if you want to answer both at the same time, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u107	No, there's no problem. Because I will tell you a little the same thing, indeed, that there has been an increase in solicitations from CPAS, the workload has been increased, of course. This is why EUR 10 million has been allocated to the CPAS to cover staff costs for managing new applications, but also to implement initiatives to reach the groups you were talking about, i.e. groups that are not used to it, whether they are self-employed, temporary unemployed or people who were in flexi-jobs or otherwise, in the event, in culture, who are not used to crossing the CPAS door. Contacting the CPAS is a strong symbolic barrier. Less than a month ago, as president of the Federation of Brussels CPAS, I asked for priority to be given to meeting these audiences. In many CPAS, many flyers have been written, many communications have been made. There is also the Integration PPS which has developed a communication campaign with flyers, with videos posted on social networks. We have also worked in coordination with ONEM; with INASTI and Banque-Carrefour to obtain all the names of the people who now benefit from bridge law or temporary unemployment. All CPAS in the country have received a list of names of people they could contact. Of course, we don't have their phone number. It's a mail that needs to be sent. My new function has not changed my convictions: I will ensure that people do not fall into precariousness or great insecurity. We know that the year 2021 will be a year of enormous poverty tensions because, if the economic and health crisis stops - I hope so - as soon as possible, we know that the social crisis will have effects for one or two years, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u108	Thank you, Minister. This issue arose after a meeting with some of the people who represent the cultural sector. They made the point that this money existed and that they needed it. So how do we link the two? If, by chance, staff were to be missed, which would be understandable, since services cannot be strengthened to disseminate information wherever possible, they also proposed to offer their services to disseminate information. Indeed, when people report to hospitals without knowing that VOCID exists, the great difficulty lies in the risk that people may not know at all that these aids are accessible. So maybe in sharing good practice, flyers, as you mentioned, could be an excellent thing so that there is an information data platform so that all municipalities can quickly draw on good communication ideas. Thank you very much for your presence on these issues. I admit, given your expertise, it's pretty reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u109	Minister, my question was very close but quite different. The difficulty described in this second question is that we still know that there are criteria within the CPAS to be able to obtain better aid. This was discussed this afternoon. My question is very pragmatic. In this very complicated period of crisis, it was by listening to Céline Nieuwenhuys, during the Grand Oral, where she used a kind of emergency allowance, that I thought that we should actually ask ourselves whether we prefer to see people swinging into the street and in an emergency situation such that they would not be entitled to aid, for reasons that can be explained in absolute terms. Should it not be said that at this time and in the coming months, in a very specific way and why not reduced in time, people who are not in the conditions a priori could also benefit from assistance? Indeed, many cases exist. They can miss out on the aid because they have not been resident for long enough, but they are still on Belgian territory and they no longer have resources, or because it is considered that the home has too many means, even though it is essentially known that this is not entirely the case. It has been months since the crisis began that I wonder if we could consider some kind of emergency allowance that could be requested simply by saying we need it for one, two or three months. I know it's complicated, but I wonder whether in the measures that are being proposed today, in particular with the curfew which means that we are no longer supposed to spend the night outside, there is no balance to be found with regard to the needs of these people who, in fact, are the forgotten ones of our system, certainly in solidarity but which does not offer an answer to those who have been denied CPAS aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u110	Madam President, as you know and as the circulars and decrees which received the approval of the previous government for the 115 million and even the CPAS law state, people who are not in order of papers, in order of territory, whether they are European or not, are not entitled to integration income or any additional assistance except urgent medical aid. It is the law and it is these beacons that have remained for the 115 million euros as released by the previous government. The CPAS cannot do anything except grant urgent medical assistance. We are moving towards something else, as was done in Brussels, namely the number of places for homeless people. Whatever their residence permit and in general, they can go to sleep, to stay, to wash themselves, but also to eat morning, noon and evening. On the other hand, it is very complicated to set up a comprehensive allowance for people who have seen their income decline. Indeed, if we look at the assessments and analyses of people who come to the CPAS today, we can see that they are people who had a job, who had a job as self-employed, as artists. The amounts in question range from 250 euros to 3,000 euros for ONSS contributions, invoices and rent. For interventions, the very principle of the CPAS is to see the need, the difficulties and to conduct a social survey. This is what is written in the circular that all CPAS must now comply with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u111	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the difficulties you are facing. I believe that, in the near future, an answer will have to be given to the question of the social survey whose interest and necessity I understand. I don't know which one. Listening to social services takes a lot of time, it's complicated administratively. I therefore wonder to what extent we are not going to be confronted with the need to lighten the social survey in a very limited way for amounts that will also be so. But I fully appreciate the difficulty that this may represent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u112	Madam President, Madam Minister, in 2016 the Federal Planning Bureau published a state of play on the importance and composition of the periods treated. That produced interesting results. The figures presented showed that 30% and 37% of men and women who recently retired were treated as equals in the workers' system, respectively. The main periods treated as such are unemployment, unemployment with single payment or SWT and incapacity for work, namely sickness and invalidity, occupational diseases and accidents at work. Policy decisions affecting such periods will undoubtedly have an impact on the pension structure of many workers, in particular women. That is why I have a few questions, Madam Secretary. What is the situation at the moment, by 2020? Are there significant shifts to be observed in the interest and composition of the periods treated? A pension reform is foreseen in the reformers' note. One of the arguments is that pension and employment policies are complementary and interdependent. What are the treated periods that you want to address as a priority? Will you request a new study from the Planning Bureau which will examine the importance and composition of the periods treated for recent pensioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u113	Mr Colebunders, I am fully aware that no career is going smoothly. In fact, choices or accidents in life sometimes mean that career breaks are inevitable. In this context, the Belgian legislation provides for the possibility, in certain cases, of including periods of inactivity for the pension, both for the duration of the career and for the amount of the pension. The government agreement makes it clear that pension and work are two closely linked issues. That is why we will work very closely together with my colleague, Mr Dermagne, the Minister for Employment, to take into account the realities of career and labour market when it comes to pensions. The objective is clear: we want to guarantee strong protection for workers. We have planned to analyse them further together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u114	Madam Minister, I am pleased that we will evaluate and discuss these matters with the social partners. We very much hope that things will be dealt with in a sensible way, which will count for the periods treated and pension-building. The study cited shows that roughly one third of the amount of pension is deemed to belong to the periods. That's taking it away. That's long-term sick people and punishing 45-plussers. That is people who are put on SWT punishment, which is particularly sensitive to me. I worked at the Ford factory myself for 25 years. Those people do know that it will have an impact on their pension if they lose their job, especially when they are at the end of their career. It is also mainly a gender issue. Women in particular will be disadvantaged, especially with a much lower pension. We need to be very careful and really think about what the decisions will be about this. Someone of the Flemish Interest wants to apply the scheme more strictly around the treated periods. That's where we need to be careful. It's literally in your program. Furthermore, we look forward to a study that refreshes the latest figures. In the next few months we will certainly discuss that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u115	Minister, my question is very simple. On 17 October last, on the occasion of World Day against Poverty, the Poverty Alleviation Service stated that in Belgium, nearly 400,000 households were affected by energy poverty. My questions will be very simple. Could you tell us how many people have been affected by energy poverty in recent years? Does the crisis we are experiencing, in your opinion, have an impact on this growing precariousness? What measures could be envisaged today to combat this precarious situation? The role of CPAS is in this fundamental framework. Can they be supported in their missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u116	Colleagues, between 2009 and 2018, the energy poverty barometer figures showed that one in five households was affected by energy poverty. However, this figure has remained relatively stable. Of course, the health crisis that has affected our country has undoubtedly increased the precariousness of some households. Indeed, confined to the home, many people have seen their energy bill increase. As you know, since 2012, the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund has been frozen. Parliament, I welcome it and I also welcome it, has decided to index the fund for the years 2019 and 2020. We will try to do so also for the other years, of course, in line with the recommendations of the platform to combat energy insecurity. You also have a sentence in the government agreement which states that "in the context of the fight against energy insecurity, the government will examine the possibility of extending the target group of the social tariff to all those entitled to increased intervention, in accordance with European regulations". So I'm going to work with my colleague Tinne Van der Straeten to work in this direction. Of course, we will continue the indexing of the fund. The upgrading of this fund will allow CPAS to provide curative aid, such as the provision of invoices as they now practice it, but also preventive. It is important to have measures of prevention and energy guidance. Preventive actions include the purchase of energy-saving equipment; this can also be used in the context of EUR 115 million. Finally, energy insecurity is a corollary of the poor isolation of our homes. It is therefore necessary to allow disadvantaged people access to energy improvements. In this respect, we are working hand in hand with the Regions. You know it's a regional competence. It is important that all disadvantaged people have access to well-isolated housing. As I always say, the energy transition is not reserved for those who know how to pay for it. The energy transition must benefit all. We know that people today who know how to install solar panels, who live in houses that they are able to isolate, pay much lower bills than those who are pre-carried, despite the social rate. As a result, like other actors, CPAS will play their part and I will support their missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic286x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive response. I had no doubt, given your experience on the ground with CPAS, I am happy to hear that the fund will be indexed, that there will be curative aid for CPAS, very important actions in terms of prevention and guidance, as well as collaboration with federated entities. As you pointed out, everyone has the right to decent housing and housing isolation is part of it.
