ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u1	Thank you, Minister, for being here. We understand the force majeure that has also been held up by the Council of Ministers at 2 p.m. As you have to leave at 5.30 p.m., there is enough room for the topical debates that are planned. My secretary contacted your associate and we were supposed to deal with the other questions tomorrow at 3 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the topical debate on COOVID-19. Fifteen questions have been put. As usual in this committee, I ask the authors whether we can collectively refer to the written questions. Or are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u2	Mr President, I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u3	Do the other colleagues agree? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Kitir is asking for her question to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u5	According to the Rules of Procedure, that is not allowed. Merged questions I can't disconnect and delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u6	Minister, my questions are as follows:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have received questions from several Members, 15 questions in total. I will try to respond substantially to each of these questions. Mr De Spiegeleer, you asked a question about the interventions in trains and stations following the Black Lives Matter protests. All other questions are linked to them in one way or another, since they relate to the COOVID measures. I shall begin with the demonstration on 7 June. The operational operative of the railway police was built into two components. The railway police were present at the departure of the trains at the main Belgian stations, in this case Liège, Namur, Charleroi, Bergen, Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp and Leuven, and provided the essential information to the central command, so that the necessary measures could be taken upon arrival. In addition, the railway police, assisted by federal police units, namely the intervention corps of Brussels, the CSD, was also present at the stations Brussels-South, Brussels-Central and Brussels-North as well as at the metro stations Louise, Rogier, Naamse Poort, Troon and De Brouckère, to ensure the safety of passengers and demonstrators and to ensure the smooth flow of train and metro traffic. The teams in the provinces experienced no problems when passengers got on the train to Brussels or on their return. The passage of about 3,000 demonstrators through the Belgian stations was calm and peaceful. In addition to the national command, the railway police in Brussels was composed of three sections of the Brussels railway police and three sections of the Brussels intervention corps. A total of 48 police officers were involved. The railway police did not detect any incidents at any time at the Brussels metro and train stations. Some metro stations were temporarily closed by order of the manager Gold Commander, the chief of police of the Brussels police zone, in consultation with the railway police. In total, two COVID-19-related records were prepared for the non-wearing of a mouth mask by the railway police. Then I come to your question about the consultation with the Minister for Mobility. I can tell you that the discussions between the partners are still ongoing. Meanwhile, the railway police continue its efforts in the area of control, surveillance and surveillance with regard to compliance with the COVID-19 measures and safety in the broadest sense. It does this in its priority area of action, i.e. on trains, tracks and on platforms, for supralocal phenomena. A project was indeed launched in the Flemish coastal municipalities for the installation of smart cameras. That was part 2 of your question and this was also recalled by Mrs Kitir. As Minister of the Interior, I was not involved in that decision. After all, it is a project coordinated and managed by Westtoer, the autonomous provincial company for tourism and recreation in West Flanders. Before processing, a private subcontractor was called on Citymesh. According to the information my services have obtained, the cameras will be deployed to count passers-by. This solution for counting passers-by provides an accurate insight into, for example, the movements of visitors, the total occupation, the visitor path and trail and visitor demography, Mrs Kitir. With this system Westtoer wants to work with the municipal authorities and city authorities to ensure that a visit to the coast can be made in a safe way this summer. According to the information received by my services, the anonymous data collected with these camera sets will be made available to the participating municipal authorities. It is up to the municipal authorities to agree with the police zones on the use of this data. The camera images themselves are immediately processed into counting data. Only anonymous counting data is transmitted and stored. The camera images themselves are not recorded or transmitted in this project. I do not currently have enough information to comment on the applicable legal framework and whether this falls within the scope of the camera law, the law on the police officer or only under the GDPR law. It seems that measures are actually being taken to protect the privacy of the passers-by. It is about almost immediately removing the images, making identifiable persons unrecognizable, limited access to the images in real time, and so on. An impact assessment has been carried out and has been sent to the Data Protection Authority, which is currently examining the project further.I cannot comment on this section, which falls within the remit of the Data Protection Authority. I will, of course, ensure that the dossier is followed up, in particular the assessment and recommendations of the Data Protection Authority. It is of the utmost importance that, if such a system is used on the public road, it is done in accordance with the principles of privacy law and that the controller acts in all transparency and in compliance with the principles of legality, subsidiarity and proportionality. This assessment will also provide a clear picture of all the finalities of this project, which will allow the legal framework to be clearly defined. Collègue Bihet, following the crisis of the VOCID-19, the services of the Directorate-General for Civil Security questioned the emergency areas and the fire and emergency medical aid service of the Brussels-Capital Region (SIAMU) regarding the rate of absence for illness. This survey revealed the following information: compared to previous years, 46% of rescue areas reported a status quo for absences due to illness, 28% even saw a decrease. In approximately 26 per cent of the organizations surveyed, a fairly small increase in the number of staff absent for illness was observed. The figures received from the relief zones and the SIAMU show that some areas have been more severely affected than others. So far, we are only aware of one case where a position had to close for a week after two employees had been tested positive for VOCID-19. The closure of the barracks was offset at the area level by an increase in the number of additional posts. We do not have exact figures on the time frame for intervention. However, in the above-mentioned survey, almost all areas reported that they had not encountered any problems in ensuring a minimum number of personnel to be able to respond to the interventions. On the other hand, in positions where volunteers are employed, there has been an increase in the number of available staff. If there was an impact on intervention times, they were rather shortened than extended. Colleagues Thibaut and Senesael, I have read the Police Watch report published by the Human Rights League. I take his recommendations to heart. Indeed – and the recent open letter from the integrated police leaders confirms this – these deserve our full reflection and call for an argumented debate. The integrated police force intends to be an open organization, respectful of everyone. I had the opportunity to talk about this at the plenary last week. There are already various mechanisms in place, both internally and externally, of the police services. I refer to the answer I gave in plenary. Mr President, you asked a question about the assistance of police officers to bailiffs during the COVID-19 crisis. You refer to the National Court of Justice's Directive of 16 March 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of the virus. It strongly recommended that, among other things, expulsion measures should be postponed, except in cases of extreme legal need. That recommendation came in because police forces had to give priority to other tasks to maintain measures to combat the coronavirus. The Directive ran until 17 June 2020 and was not renewed. In other words, as from 18 June 2020, the current protocol between the bailiffs and the police in the context of providing assistance has been re-established. For further information, I referred to my fellow Minister of Justice. Gentlemen Donné, Demon and Vandenput, you asked a question about the gatherings and mass gatherings in different cities. Mr Donné, on 12 June 2020, I did indeed write a ministerial letter to all the mayors and governors regarding the exercise of the right to argue during the federal phase of the national emergency plan following the outbreak of the Coronavirus COVID-19. As a result of the Black Lives Matter demonstration, I drew attention to a number of issues. Firstly, freedom of expression and the right to peacefully argue are essential pillars in our democratic society. However, the right to argue is not absolute. The right to argue may be restricted to ensure public rest and safety, as well as to protect public health. It is a delicate balancing exercise that must be constantly monitored. Therefore, in my letter to the mayors, I would point out that the right to argue is not absolute and must for the time being be restricted in the interests of public health, by prohibiting demonstrations exceeding the maximum permitted limits for demonstrations. It is, of course, always up to the mayor to act first and foremost in the context of public order, security and public health protection and to give clear instructions to the police force. Only then can the governor act and, in the final line, the Minister of the Interior. I subsequently had discussions with Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès and Prime Minister Rudi Vervoort, with whom we were all on the same lines, sitting and will remain, in particular that such meetings cannot at this time and could jeopardise the hard work of the people. I then called for absolute civicism, which I still do. Everyone in the process must take responsibility, from the local government to the governors and also the people, who do realise that the virus has not yet disappeared. The recent National Security Council of 24 June decided that demonstrations were allowed until 31 July 2020, i.e. this year, with a maximum of 400 participants and allowed from 1 August with a maximum of 800 participants, subject to certain conditions. It is essential that it should be a static demonstration on the public road, where the distance rule of social distancing can be respected, and which was previously authorised by the competent municipal authority. With this decision, a clear framework has been established that clearly states what can and cannot be done. Mr Demon, I equally regret what has happened in several Belgian cities where large numbers of people have gathered to party. I do not think that is appropriate at the moment and the measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus are still applicable. D However, measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus are not yet appropriate. The Security Council last Wednesday did not take a decision along these lines either. I'll call on the people to be absolutely civil. It is not my intention to make the entire population pay for the misconduct of some. However, I would like to call on everyone to continue to comply with the measures so that the hard work of the last period would not have been in vain. It is for the competent authorities to determine whether infringements were committed in respect of the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus. This falls under the local jurisdiction of the mayors. Moreover, several mayors have already announced additional measures and indicated, for example, that if necessary, squares will be closed or stricter measures will be taken within the framework of the closure period. Many fellow mayors also stated that they would be more closely monitoring compliance with the corona measures and that they would be fully committed to enforcement, which I am very pleased with. This is also an answer to Mr Vandenput's question. You also asked me, Mr Vandenput, some figures on the incident in Ixelles on 21 June. The police services inform me that no people were arrested by the police on Sunday morning 21 June. However, 59 gas fines and 10 ordinary PVs were drawn up. The National Security Council has decided, after extensive consultations, that the closing hour will remain at 1:00 a.m. and that there will be no deviation from that. Dear colleague Thibaut, with regard to your question about the sexual exploitation of children online during confinement, since the sexual exploitation of children online is an international phenomenon, Belgium is present in various expert groups in which the exchange of experiences and information plays a key role. In detail, this means: a section of the central service of the Directorate-General of the Federal Judicial Police for the fight against serious or organised crime. In brief, DJSOC - Child Abuse provides the president of the group EMPACT (European Multidisciplinary Platform Against Criminal Threats), abuse and sexual exploitation of minors. It is a European project bringing together 30 countries. Operational action plans include prevention, law enforcement, awareness-raising and training activities. DJSOC - Child Abuse is a member of the expert group, which meets twice a year to identify as many victims as possible. All of this is based on research on confiscated images. At the national level we have: the National Security Plan, cooperation with Child Focus (agreement protocol signed in 2017), cooperation with ECPAT (End child prostitution, child pornography and trafficking of children for sexual purposes) and cooperation with several police schools. The DJSOC - Child Abuse has several technology applications used in support of both local and federal judicial research services. DJSOC - Child abuse consists of five members of the operational executive and two members of the CALOG. Once the suspect and/or the victim have been identified and according to the designation decided by the competent magistrate, the investigation is pursued by the Federal Judicial Police or the local police of the jurisdiction. Mr Segers, you asked a question about the tests on COVID-19 of persons without legal residence in an imminent expulsion, followed by a hearing. Following consultations with the syndicated organisations regarding the start-up of removals, a prior test was requested on a person to be deported. The Department of Foreign Affairs, which is the responsibility of colleague De Block, has considered that prior testing is not necessary, as no contamination has been detected in the closed centres so far and all new residents are systematically tested during intake. This policy is in line with the guidelines of the Risk Management Group, the RMG, which states that a molecular PCR test is only necessary for each new resident of a residential collectivity. Only in the case of a resident with a clinical picture suggestive of COVID-19, a serological test can be performed. Mr Metsu, you asked a question about Europol's TE-SAT report. We are certainly aware of the latest report. It is the Member States and Eurojust who make their contributions to Europol. Europol shall determine the methodology and final editing on the basis of these contributions. In the context of their screening, the intelligence services shall identify each year a very limited number of asylum seekers who may be radicalised or associated with terrorist groups. These links are usually very minimal. Security services shall monitor these cases with particular vigilance, especially when the persons concerned have been in contact with terrorist organisations and/or have carried out missions on behalf of these organisations in their country of origin. This allows the police to intervene quickly in the event of threats and major or minor incidents. In some specific cases, arrests have taken place. The OCAD continuously monitors the situation and the threat. Their assessments, both in the short and in the long term, are delivered to me as well. This shows, among other things, that the security services are indeed seeing a certain virulence on social media of all kinds of extremist or terrorist groups or persons. Those groups are trying to recover the COVID-19 virus and/or the measures to strengthen their narrative, their narrative. In the short term, however, this has not led to an increase in the level of threat. For the time being, the OCAD has maintained the general threat level 2. Other threat analyses do not indicate that there is currently evidence of an imminent or acute terrorist threat. The analysis of the OCAD will be passed on to authorities such as the National Security Council, the intelligence services, the Crisis Centre and the police forces. They will work on this and take any security or protection measures. Even during this lockdown, measures have already been taken in this way. For your question concerning State security, I must refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Justice. Dear colleague Zanchetta, with regard to your question on the management of exhibits, the computer module including Police and Justice needs covers the features expressed by the Police and Justice Working Group, validated and prioritized by the Police and Justice Steering Committee. It allows for the management of seizures and the tracking of exhibits throughout his life and responsibilities. Production (operational) at the Police and Justice level started at the beginning of this year and is proceeding gradually and jointly following a round-table deployment plan to cover the national level by the end of 2020 at the latest. Dear colleague Chanson, with regard to your question on relief zones, in order to have adequate monitoring of the situation in the relief zones and within the SIAMU, a short questionnaire assessed the impact of the health crisis on the functioning of the areas in a number of areas. All emergency areas and the Brussels Fire Department responded to this questionnaire. The data obtained relate mainly to the period from early March to the end of April 2020. These data were used to determine the extent to which the coronavirus crisis had an impact on the number of patients in the rescue services. On the other hand, there is no data on the number of patients due to coronavirus. As I have already indicated, in 26% of services there has been a slight increase in the number of sick people compared to previous years. In 46 per cent of services, the crisis had no impact and in 24 per cent of services, there was even a decrease in the number of sick people. As for the impact on the organisation of services, only two areas experienced problems in terms of minimum occupancy or minimum availability to perform the tasks. I was already referring to it at the beginning of my answer. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u8	I think so too, Minister. I am happy to give the floor to the replies, using the order of submission. Monsieur Bihet will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u9	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. The figures provided were very positive and encouraging, with one exception, for the relief services and the non-closed posts. We will call for vigilance in order to avoid, in the event of a second wave of coronavirus, the closure of a post and a negative influence on the response times of the rescue services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u10	Minister, as a parliamentarian, I feel a little lost and discouraged because, with regard to the Police Watch report and police violence, I listened carefully to you in plenary and, today, I intend to take Police Watch's recommendations to your heart. In plenary, however, you spoke of a counter-strategy of criminal groups regarding complaints against the police. I feel lost today because I don't know what play we play in anymore. What information would you like to provide us with? Committee P again received 200 complaints during this crisis. You're not talking about it. I confess, minister, that I am not satisfied with your answers. The way you prepare this session is amazing. Not to mention this report of complaints submitted to Committee P shows us that your response is very succinct. I'm disappointed and angry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only hope that if illegal events were still taking place, the administrative authorities would be able to direct the police with the necessary clear instructions, so that the scale of the events is reduced and the situation does not get out of hand. The police are perfectly capable of doing so, but she must be instructed to do so. The necessary political will is needed. I hope that in the coming weeks we will not be confronted again with events such as on 7 June and cooperation last weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have also referred to the guidelines of the Risk Assessment Group. That's right. You're right about that. I had asked my question on the basis of a double concern, the health of both persons without legal residence, and also of the police. However, I would like to point out that there is still a fear that people without legal residence who are expelled from a closed centre could be threatened with spitting on departure and that spitting would also occur and that an expulsion would not continue in that case. If this were a general conscience, it could make expulsion more difficult. Apart from the recommendations of the Risk Assessment Group, consideration should be given to ensuring that the expulsions can continue effectively and that the test is completed just before departure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u13	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers and the figures. I was not aware of this study in the fire department and I thank you for providing us with this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u14	Minister, I have no reply to the answer you gave me about the bailiffs. That was very clear and ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u15	Then we can move on to the second actua debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u16	Mr President, in reply to the questions put by Mr Soors, Mr Bihet, Mr Colebunders and Mr Rigot, I would like to say the following. The filming of police officers during a police intervention on public roads or in a place accessible to the public, by a citizen or a journalist, is indeed permitted in principle, in so far as such filming is for personal use or for legitimate journalistic purposes. The General Data Protection Regulation on the one hand and the Data Protection Act on the other are only applicable once the persons subject to the police intervention or police officers can be identified on the images, and the person who made the images does not limit their use to private purposes. For example, by broadcasting them on the Internet or by taking images that do not fit into a journalistic context or that are misused in this context, for example to harm members of the police services. The seizure of cameras used to take images and the deletion of images are therefore not possible at the time the images are taken, but only when an infringement is found, i.e. when the images are unlawfully published. Data protection regulations sanction this unauthorized publication with a criminal fine. This interpretation is disseminated through instructions to all police services. My services will compile these instructions and ensure maximum further dissemination within the integrated police force in order to raise staff awareness of this issue. Colleague Thibaut, the practice of filming police interventions has already been the subject of several responses to which I refer. I repeat that filming a police intervention is allowed, but only for purposes limited to personal use or legitimate journalistic purposes. The rules for the protection of personal data are violated from the moment when the persons subject to the intervention of the police or the police officers can be identified on the images and that the dissemination of these images, for example via the Internet, is not limited to private purposes or journalistic purposes. They cannot therefore be misused, for example for the purpose of harming members of the police services. The data protection regulations punish any unauthorized publication with a criminal fine. These rules have already been disseminated through clear instructions to all police services. In particular, they are the subject of a prevention sheet drawn up by the Internal Directorate for Prevention and Protection at Work of the Federal Police, updated in March 2019 following the judgment of the ECJ of 14 February 2019. I am not aware of the existence of circulars or of an initiative to develop a circular at the federal level on this subject. The applicable instructions are issued internally to the police and I assume that you refer to them when you invoke the existence of circulars in this regard. I intend to request the Federal Police Legal Service (DGR/JUR) to issue a new concept note for all members of the police force. Colleagues Colebunders and Thibaut, any corps is free to give instructions for reason of identification. Every police officer in the field should base his identification on Article 34 of the Police Office Act. Furthermore, under Article 35 of the law on police officers their freedom must not be allowed to be subjected to public curiosity. The taking of images of police officers in front of buildings to be monitored (embassies) or during a reconstitution, for example, may also always give rise to the need for identification. The discussion is therefore not so obvious and the legal prohibition of similar cases may be problematic. Collègue Bihet, the legal framework for the use of bodycams and dashcams is laid down in articles 25/1 et seq. of the Police Function Act. In accordance with these provisions, the police may use cameras in their administrative and judicial police missions, provided that the prescribed conditions are met. The decision to allow the use of bodycams or dashcams in daily work belongs to the police department concerned. But I will give you more information when I address the joint questions on this subject raised by colleagues Verduyckt, Soors and Thibaut. A working group was set up to study the COC's opinion on the use of bodycams. The taking of images of a police officer is also an aspect that will be addressed. This may lead to instructions. I am waiting with you for the results of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u17	Minister, I am pleased that you will be making extra awareness of the rules. We agree that unfamiliar rules lead to uncertainty and, consequently, tension on the streets. We have seen a number of incidents, including in recent weeks. I am thinking of the incident involving a Member of the European Parliament and the footage of a journalist who wanted to film in the margins of the Black Lives Matter demonstration, but was originally prevented from doing so. It is important that at least the rules are applied. However, I keep asking myself whether the rules are sufficiently clear. You say that filming is allowed in principle, as long as it is for personal use and not for publication, but where does personal use reach? For example, is posting images on social media also a publication, because that is of course still a personal channel? You also say that the police cannot be identified, but there is also, of course, a difference between a larger situation, such as intervention, filming or bringing one person into the picture in a very targeted way. There is a lot of discussion about this in the field too. When it comes to identifying the police, this may have to do with the processing of personal data, but it is not quite clear when the processing of personal data begins. According to internal guidelines of the police and the P Committee, filming is not a criminal offence, as you say, but according to the COC, filming can be a criminal offence if there is no legal basis for it. If that legal basis is to be established first, it will be very difficult in practice and will continue to create uncertainty and tensions. That is still the problem for me, which has so far not been sufficiently clarified. I would like to hear you refer to the circular and I agree with you that better awareness of that circular is absolutely necessary in order to avoid further tensions on the ground, but further clarification of the circular can also help to prevent too much interpretation on the ground and that police officers who often have to deal with a great deal should also worry about this in the heat of the fight. At the same time, it would also ensure that citizens have the freedom to do what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u18	I have already included your suggestions, Mrs Soors, in preparatory work, but it is good that you repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u19	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. Would it be possible to obtain a copy, particularly as regards the legal aspects and the articles to which reference is made? For us, at the time of social networks, it is essential to have complete and non-parcellar images. We fully support the use of "bodycams", but also of "dashcams", which allow us to obtain complete images of the police vehicles involved in chase races. In Germany, for example, some police officers only have the task of filming the interventions in full, which makes it possible to know exactly who is doing what in certain circumstances. On the other hand, we support the police, who must be able to exercise their profession in complete serenity. The public, on the other hand, must perceive the action of the police as a monitoring and protection service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u20	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive and detailed answer. We are indeed in an extremely complex legal situation, which involves the interaction of the divergent rights of each other. In this respect, case law will also take place at European level, and I would like to hear from you on this point. Indeed, this is a rather delicate problem because, more and more often, the policeman filmed or photographed invokes respect for his rights as set out in the law. In recent months, this situation has led to numerous slippages and misunderstandings. It is therefore really time for both citizens and police officers to know their rights and duties, in order to avoid any such misunderstanding. So in the field, there's only one request. I believe that an exhaustive legal note on this subject would be synonymous with reconciliation between each other and an opportunity to facilitate the understanding between the citizen and the police officer. There is an urgent need for action, and I invite you to work together to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u21	Minister, you are right to say that images must have a defined and precise framework and cannot be intended to harm the privacy and image of the police or to harm, for example, by being diverted, which is so easy nowadays, especially through social networks. Nevertheless, they have an essential role to play. In addition, the right to film has been confirmed on several occasions by various national and supranational courts. It is therefore up to you to strengthen training, information and directives, to ensure the use of this recognised right to film, and to ensure that slippages such as those we have seen in recent times do not happen again. Indeed, they undermine the image of many police officers who, fortunately, know the regulations and apply them diligently; they also damage relations between citizens and the police. So let's go faster to clarify the interpretation of the texts, to inform both the citizens and the police about their rights and duties, the aim being to strengthen the image of our police in whom we trust and in whom we must continue to trust. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u22	Minister, I apologize for my persistence, but start with the status quaestionis. The French nuclear watchdog ASN has formally failed the energy company EDF as a protective measure for negligence. Of course, there has also been COOVID-19 in France and EDF has apparently not been able to get around in time with a number of necessary works on its installations. The company was given the time to do so until 31 October 2020. There was a somewhat populist approach in the province of West Flanders, which we understand, because we are all local politicians. I myself had the honour and pleasure to spend twenty years in the province council of West Flanders and the matter was also discussed there. I come to the heart of the matter. The various cooperation agreements between the Belgian and French security authorities provide for regular exchange of information. I refer to the French-Belgian agreement of 1998. Ten years ago, the Belgian authorities also expressed the wish to be involved in the assessment by ASN of the results of the well-known stress tests of the Chooz and Gravelines nuclear power stations, both located on the Belgian border. France responded favourably to that. The key question is whether there was sufficient communication between the FANC and ASN on the file. I hear in the corridors that ASN's reports are actually public and that anyone can consult them, although local doubt is being sown. Was the FANC aware of the developments around Gravelines? What was the reaction of the FANC and yours? Has the FANC contacted the competent French authorities, or have you done so? Has ASN, in accordance with the French-Belgian agreement, exchanged data on its most recent action against Gravelines with the FANC?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u23	I would like to add that the notice of default specifically refers to the fact that there is only one protective dome, which is not resistant to explosions. So this is not a small matter, especially given that there are eight Seveso plants nearby. Minister, I would ask you to answer the questions very clearly. Have you spoken to the French Government yourself? Have the unsafe nuclear power stations been shut down; we must have made adjustments by October? If that is not the case, can Belgium in the meantime enforce the cessation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u24	Mr Minister, the French nuclear supervisor ASN failed the French energy company on 4 June because of technical problems with the Gravelines nuclear power plant. That nuclear power plant is located 30 kilometres from De Panne and is one of the largest nuclear power plants in the world. Moreover, we are talking here about rather old nuclear reactors, 35 years of age or older. A safety analysis was already carried out a few years ago and it appeared that the Gravelines nuclear power plant is the most risky one in Europe. The negative report of the supervisor in France is yet another warning signal. In the event of a nuclear disaster, the nuclear cloud is blown straight to the coast by the west wind, to West Flanders. Do you share our concern in this regard? How do you respond to the default notice by the supervisor? Has there been any contact with your colleague or with ASN himself? What legal steps do you want to take if the owner does not take the necessary measures before the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u25	Minister, I will not repeat the introduction, as my colleagues have already done. I'm just gonna run my questions. There is certainly a cooperation agreement between the French and the Belgian watchdog, which allows cross-inspections among other things. When will the next cross inspection take place? Is there an overarching or European control body that can monitor the agreements made? To what extent can Belgium be sure that the works to be carried out are indeed being carried out? Imagine such a thing happening in Belgium, how would our inspection services react? Would we communicate such facts to our neighbouring countries? I know that this is not required by law, but we have to be honest: the lack of information, including in relation to the population, causes suspicion and causes, possibly unjustly, some panic. When you open the website of the FANC or the crisis center, you will get a map of all nuclear sites in Belgium and our neighbouring countries, but Gravelines is not available. The explanation is that the site of Gravelines is 30 kilometers from our border, while the emergency planning zones only go up to 20 kilometers. That's why that site isn't on there. However, this gives the impression that the site does not exist and we do not have to worry about it. To what extent are you prepared to reconsider that? Shouldn't we be proactively communicating with the population in West Flanders about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will give an overall answer to the various questions concerning the Gravelines or Grevelingen nuclear power station. Many will be pleased that it is Grevelingen in French-Flanders, close to Dunkirk, but that would lead us too far. There is a beautiful book about that, namely Weekend in Zuydcoote. Did you read that? It's about the mobilisation in 1940 in the north of France. I shall come back to the subject of the questions. I will answer the specific questions put by Mr Cogolati and Mrs Ingels separately. The Gravelines nuclear power plant comprises six reactors and is particularly close to the port of Dunkirk, where there is a gas terminal. Most of the members here have already made a place visit. For this reason, the plant was designed with increased protection against the pressure waves that could occur in the event of a large gas explosion. In 2015, a new liquid gas terminal was built that uses the residual heat of the nuclear power plant to convert liquefied methane into gas for injection into the French gas network. One condition for this construction was that the plant should not only be able to withstand a large gas explosion in the port, but also a large gas explosion on the site of the nuclear power plant itself. To this end, a number of adjustments were made to the safety systems of the Gravelines nuclear power plant. On 11 February 2020, EDF of Electricité de France, the operator of the Gravelines nuclear power plant, reported to the French security authority ASN or löötorité de sûreté nucléaire, that they had or had noted, in the framework of the fourth 10-year safety review, that certain pumps which themselves could withstand the effects of such gas explosion on the site were housed in a building that was not designed for it. It was estimated that the damage to the building in the event of a gas explosion could cause these pumps to stop being fully functional. This could mean that the long-term cooling of nuclear fuel from reactors would not be fully guaranteed. This is about protecting against an event with a very low probability - a large gas cloud that moves from the terminal to the nuclear power plant and explodes there - but with potentially serious consequences, namely the disappearance of long-term cooling due to damage to a building that houses the pumps. Following this notification, ASN immediately contacted the operator who undertook to carry out the necessary adaptation works by the end of September 2020. In the meantime, EDF took compensatory measures by fully filling and filling cooling water reservoirs filled in normal conditions of only 50%. Furthermore, they indicated that their rapid response team could restore long-term cooling in such circumstances within 24 hours. In the meantime, the protection of the pumps for reactor 5 is already provided. The same protection is installed at the other reactors. On 29 April 2020, EDF announced that, for the sake of COVID-19, the works will not be completed until 31 October 2020. In view of the compensatory measures, the ASN considers that this is acceptable. As a precautionary measure, the ASN included that new deadline in a letter of formal notice. If the deadline were to be exceeded, EDF would be subject to criminal sanctions. The ASN therefore wishes to underline the importance of a timely solution to the derogation. As such deviations did not have a direct impact on the environment, it was not legally necessary for the ASN to inform the FANC and the Crisis Centre accordingly. The FANC has contacted the ASN about the situation and the ASN has posted all available and relevant information, including background and history, on its website in all transparency. Emergency planning is governed by the Royal Decree of 1 March 2018 establishing the radiological and nuclear emergency plan for the Belgian territory, which deals with radiological emergencies that could arise from Class I nuclear installations on Belgian territory as well as from foreign nuclear power plants located less than 100 km from the border, such as the Gravelines nuclear power plant. The same goes for the plant in Chooz. The intake of stable iodine is one of the protective measures that could be decided in emergency planning. To this end, sufficient large stocks have been stored. You can find more details on this in my answer to the written question No. 525 by Mrs Ingels. Finally, intermediate disciplines are provided with adequate instructions and protective equipment. Those means and associated periodic tests and trainings shall be described in the procedures and plans of the operational disciplines for the different assignments and circumstances of the intervention. In addition, their exposure to radiation is measured continuously using dose meters. In addition, the evaluation cell closely monitors the exposure of the interveners. The Nuclear Fund financed by electricity producers' fees was established to cover all costs related to the implementation of the national nuclear emergency plan, including the protection and equipment of on-site emergency workers. I mean the implementation of the national emergency plan. Mrs Ingels, the FANC and its technical branch Bel V regularly carry out cross-inspections in the French nuclear power stations of Chooz, as I mentioned earlier, and Gravelines. Several cross-inspections were also planned in 2020, but they were temporarily suspended at the request of the French security authorities for the reason we all know, namely COOVID-19. A date for the next cross inspection is therefore not yet fixed. Nuclear safety is and remains a national competence which is followed by the nuclear safety authority of each country. In this particular case, the French security authority, the ASN, will ensure the follow-up of the timely implementation of the adaptation works on the Gravelines site. There is no overarching European security authority. At European level, there are several associations of national nuclear safety authorities such as ENSREG (European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group) and WENRA (Western European Nuclear Regulators Association). For example, such an association sets minimum reference levels which can serve as a basis for national regulations for nuclear installations and also plays an important role in the so-called peer reviews conducted at European level on specific topics such as the ageing management of nuclear installations. If a similar non-conformity were to occur in a Belgian nuclear power plant, a similar approach would also be applied, of course within the specific Belgian regulatory framework. For example, the FANC has nuclear inspectors who have the power to take administrative or safety measures and impose on operators in order to remedy regulatory infringements or unsafe situations. With regard to the question raised by Mr Cogolati – who has left us – concerning the cooling of Doel and Tihange and the impact of a possible heat wave, nuclear power plants draw water to ensure their cooling and to supply the various circuits necessary for their operation. The collected water is then returned to the stream. Water heating must respect the limits set by the competent regional authorities. To this end, the Meuse flow rate is constantly monitored by the operator. For the Scheldt, the problem of loss of flow does not arise. The risk of a heat wave and therefore of a decrease in the flow of watercourses is foreseen in the monitoring devices and therefore does not constitute a risk to the safety of nuclear power plants. On the other hand, a heat wave could influence the power generation of nuclear power plants. In order to avoid exceeding one of the limits imposed, the operator of nuclear power plants may be required to reduce the power provided to the power grid of one or more units. As with floods, internal emergency plans may be deployed by the operator according to the temperature measured at the site. Specific measures are taken at different temperature thresholds. One example is the cooling of certain equipment. This cooling takes place by air injection and it is obvious that cooling equipment with air at 50°C is less efficient than with air at 20°C. There are therefore losses in the efficiency of certain equipment beyond a certain temperature. If such a case were to occur, the operator would therefore monitor the situation closely and the security authority will verify by sampling that the actions are well taken and that they are effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for explaining the technicality of the problem. The threat of the disappearance of long-term cooling is, of course, a matter of considerable urgency. I understand and share the concerns of my colleagues, given the proximity to the port and to the industry in the port. However, it is very important that you stressed that it was not legally necessary to inform the FANC. This does not mean, of course, that we should rest on our laurels and wait until the ASN places all possible information on its website. It is important that we, and the FANC, act proactively. I would also like to thank you for the explanation of the cross-inspections. For the time being, they are understandably suspended. I also understand that this will be discussed in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You answer the question of your concern by saying that this is a low probability event. So that means you're not worried. That's like the space shuttle, which was launched with a 1 in 6 billion chance that it would go wrong, and exploded 73 seconds later. I disagree. I am not with the group that thinks West Flemish people are too easily worried or cannot stay rational and calm for long enough. As the honourable Member said, this is an old large nuclear power plant where, as the supervisor says, the situation is alarming and where putting it in order takes longer than planned until the end of October. I may have missed the answer to my question as to whether you spoke to the French Government, but I did not hear it. Even more important is the question of whether the parts where there is delay in protection have been shut down. If that is not the case, I believe that Belgium, on the basis of what we know, should consult with the French Government in order to bring it to a halt. Your answer states that the previous government, unlike the mouth masks, has built up a stock of iodine tablets. Your enthusiasm for the French Westhoek, next to the West Flemish Westhoek, graces you, but we are not going to start reasoning in terms of providing iodine if it goes wrong? We know from the supervisor that there is a very high risk and I ask you to consult with the French Government to stop these reactors until the repairs have been carried out. You did not answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u29	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive technical response. I'd like to give you one more thing. The border residents read the newspaper articles that revealed the problem. It was also publicly available on the website, and I have found it in the meantime, in all transparency. Those articles do something to a human being. It is close, there is talk of a default, so there must be something going on, one thinks. I understand that it is mainly a precaution to ensure that the works are completed by 31 October. That's good. It is also good that the FANC and the Crisis Centre continue to monitor it closely. They have contacted themselves, have shown everything very well and will certainly do so in the coming months. One last aspect I would like to mention concerns communication to the inhabitants. Of course I know you can't do all that yourself. Is there a link to the mayors through the governor? Have the mayors been briefed on the state of play? If there is one level that is close to the people, it is the local governments and mayors. They get a lot of questions after such articles. If they were included in the wave of information received by the FANC and the Crisis Centre from the French partners in the meantime, they could continue to inform people correctly and indicate that anyone who needs to be aware of it is also aware that it is being closely monitored and that action will be taken if necessary. If you would consider that again for the next few weeks, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u30	Mr President, Minister, you say that it is a question of protecting against a low probability event. That's always a nuclear disaster until it happens. Iodine pills aren't gonna get us anywhere. I asked you to contact your French colleague, but I understand from your reply that this has not happened. So we are way too lax about this. And there were already negative assessments of the Gravelines nuclear power plant. It's very old nuclear reactors. If we do not use this more forcefully, Gravelines is an accident waiting to happen. It is of course no coincidence that they are West Flemish colleagues who are asking this question with me. After all, West Flanders will have the greatest impact if a nuclear disaster were to happen there. We're directly involved. I asked you to examine what legal action we can take as a directly disadvantaged party if it appears that the technical problems are not resolved and if it appears that these technical problems will only increase in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u31	Mr. Secretary, I too am charmed by your interest in the Westhoek. Because I was born in Grevelingen. Being born in the vicinity of a nuclear site might explain some of my flaws, I can say as a boltade. I didn't get an answer about the proper sharing of information. I share Mrs Slegers' concern. I think we should communicate fairly and proactively with the people through the governor and the mayors. That is why I asked for the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety to be convened so that the FANC could explain to us the security situation for Gravelines, but also for Chooz and Borssele, and we could have a look at it. I know it's a national competence, but I think our citizens have a right to information. I would like to know, like Mrs Slegers, whether we can do something through the governors to give and continue to give that information, even after October, when the work is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u32	Mr President, I would like to say a few words. I will take all the suggestions, especially with regard to open communication. I think the French Government was considering shutting down two of the reactors. I believe that something was said about this at the beginning of the year. I don't know how far that file is now. It is not my French colleague from the Interior who is responsible for nuclear safety, but the Minister for Energy. I'll get in touch with her. However, I have already spoken informally with my colleague from the Interior. I propose that Governor Decaluwé contact me together with the prefect of the new region of Département du Nord, where there is a well-functioning border consultation. I will also involve the governor of the province of Hainaut, because they are also directly involved in the dossier and also the governor of the province of East Flanders, because this dossier is of interest to them. I'm sure I'll take the suggestions. I hope to be able to provide information on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for that supplement. To the most essential part of my question, the consideration of closing down some nuclear reactors, I have not received an answer. For this reason, I suggest that you contact us again if you have received an answer to this question. As Mr De Vriendt stressed, this closure is the essence of the dossier at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u34	Mr President, I understand from the chairman of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety that this committee will meet shortly on this issue. This could be an opportunity for an update containing the most recent information that the Minister can provide to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u35	If no one asks to speak, this debate will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u36	Minister, do you agree that we should now continue the sitting with the regular questions, or will we resume the agenda tomorrow with a fresh start?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u37	Mr President, as announced at the beginning of this sitting, I propose that, if possible, the questions be answered tomorrow. Besides my will, I'm expected for other things that I can't avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u38	We'll take care of it in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u39	Mr President, thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-30-55-commissie-ic223x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for being here. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close the work of this committee for today.
