ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we are here together for questions to the Foreign Minister. First of all, I'm making a service announcement. Our committee also received a decoy as a new year's present. It will be a bit of a search to work with that, because the rule is that there is five minutes per question for the question and the answer together, so 2.5 minutes for the questioner and 2.5 minutes for the Minister's answer. There are no clear guidelines for merged questions, such as Mr Cogolati under item 1. We must give more time there, both for the question and for the answer. As long as there are no directives, we will be flexible in dealing with them. We are also forced to push the button. The concentration on content will not increase, but rather à la guerre comme à la guerre. We will try it in the first meetings and then evaluate whether it works properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u2	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, ladies and gentlemen, in each of the last Belgian speeches to the Security Council, the state of the oil tanker Safer off the coast of Hodeidah is mentioned. As you mentioned, the situation is worrying in both humanitarian and ecological terms. It is essential that the UN expert mission have access to the tanker in order to conduct a risk assessment and work to be undertaken. Currently, UN experts would be waiting for a written agreement from the Houtis to access the ship. An oral agreement would have already been given. In the Security Council, as at bilateral meetings with the Government of Yemen or members of the coalition to support legitimacy in Yemen, Belgium continues to support the resumption of a peace dialogue between the parties to the conflict. We also continue to advocate for the full implementation of the Stockholm Agreement and the Ryad Agreement. Informal discussions are held at closed doors. These initiatives must be encouraged in order to achieve a ceasefire and lasting peace in Yemen. Finally, Belgium also pays particular attention to the issue of humanitarian access and respect for international humanitarian law in this conflict. Civilians, especially children, are the first victims of this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u3	Minister, thank you. I do believe that Belgium has a role to play in this region of the world, the Persian Gulf. I had come back to this idea of a major peace conference in the Gulf region on the initiative of the European countries at the session devoted to Iran. We're here in the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u4	Madam Chair, Minister, by my question dated November 15, I asked you whether you had been able to obtain the guarantee that Amaya Coppens was being treated under acceptable conditions and whether you had been able to take steps to facilitate her release. Fortunately, it was reported on 30 December that 13 activists arrested on 14 November – including Amaya Coppens – had been released. My questions are, therefore, whether Amaya Coppens's and other activists' release is conditional, or whether charges are still held against them. Also, do you know how many people continue to be subjected to abusive imprisonment in Nicaragua? Amnesty International mentioned in early January that 65 people remained incarcerated only after the April 2018 mobilizations. Where are we on this subject, and what can you do at the diplomatic level to facilitate the release of these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u5	Minister, the Belgian-Nicaraguan Amaya Coppens was arrested at the end of November 2019. Meanwhile, she's been released. It could be said that the situation has been resolved, but that is, of course, far too short. The situation in Nicaragua is anything but rosy, I believe. At the time, the FPS Foreign Office communicated that he was in contact and offered diplomatic support. The FPS also referred to the conclusions of 14 October of the Council of the European Union. Firstly, what was the specific nature of the aid? Secondly, is there any insight into the situation? Why was she even arrested? She's still in court. Thirdly, the conclusions of the Council of the European Union refer to sanctions. Will effective sanctions be taken against the regime? When would they start?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u6	Colleagues, the situation of Mrs Coppens has received special attention from our embassy in Panama City – which is competent for Nicaragua – and has maintained close contacts with local partners, including the Luxembourg diplomatic representation in Managua. For example, humanitarian assistance was provided to Mrs Coppens. The Nicaraguan Government had agreed to this, which was necessary because Mrs Coppens is also Nicaraguan. The Belgian Embassy in Panama and our local diplomatic partners continued to follow the matter very closely. They also kept in touch with Mrs Coppens before she was released. Ms. Coppens' case is not isolated. Belgium is therefore working with the other Member States of the European Union to convince Nicaragua of the obligation to immediately release any arbitrarily arrested person. The Council of the European Union created on 14 October 2019 a framework for restrictive measures against individuals and entities in Nicaragua. For the time being, however, no individuals or entities are on the list. The possible completion of these lists of sanctions depends on the political developments in Nicaragua, which are closely monitored by the European Union and the Member States. The situation in Nicaragua remains worrying. Nor are there any signs of improvement, either politically or in terms of respect for human rights and the rule of law. The issue of political prisoners is discussed at European level as well as in other international fora, such as the United Nations. For example, during the last 42nd session of the UN Human Rights Council in September 2019, the European Union stated that the release of political prisoners is a necessary step to guarantee the fundamental rights of the population and restore confidence. During the same session of the UN Human Rights Council, Belgium also expressed its concern about the continued arrests of peaceful political opponents and the lack of information on their detention conditions. Our country also expressed its concern about prisoners who were placed under house arrest, and about reprisals against human rights lawyers and journalists. It called on the Nicaraguan authorities to restore freedom of expression, association and assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. We continue to face two challenges. On the one hand, Amaya Coppens is still hidden, is still not free from her movements, and the charges still weigh on her. We believe that you continue to have an important role to play in this matter. On the other hand, there is the situation in Nicaragua. You said it yourself, since you are aware of everything that needs to be put in place. We're talking about criminalization, arbitrary arrests, intimidation of civil society. You are doing what needs to be done at Belgian, European and United Nations level. We believe that this issue must weigh even more heavily in Belgian diplomacy. Indeed, the situation seems to us to be derailing, and your attention to it must be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Nicaragua has come a long way. It is a pity that we have been getting bad signals from there again over the last few years. It is good that you continue to pay attention to the political prisoners. Amaya Coppens gives the situation a face.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u9	Madam President, Minister, my question was tabled some time ago, but I think it is still relevant. I will not remind you of the circumstances in which Evo Morales had to leave power in Bolivia, nor of the circumstances in which Jeanine Áñez succeeded him. You are not without ignoring the climate of violence that marked this period. The new self-proclaimed president reiterated, very quickly, as she said, at the end of November, her announcement of a call for transparent elections. However, violence has not weakened and continues to cause victims. By the time I wrote my question, that is, on 29 November, some 20 people had already lost their lives in clashes with the police or the army. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation on the ground? What position does Belgium stand on this issue both within the United Nations Security Council and within the European Union? Finally, could you take stock of the presence of Belgian nationals on the spot and the instructions given to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, I will once again try to be as effective as possible by limiting myself to the most crucial aspects of my question. What is important, in my view, is that Europe does not recognise the coup. I know that we can discuss the issue, but recognizing the legitimacy of the government resulting from the overthrow of Bolivian President Evo Morales seems to me to be very delicate. To recognize a self-proclaimed government, especially in the Latin American context, by pretexting the imperfections of the previous one, amounts to denying the foundations of our democracies. I would therefore like to know Belgium's position on the interim government. Has she made any contacts in Bolivia to formally call for the democratic rights of Bolivians to be guaranteed? Could participatory and emancipatory democracy at the origin of the Evo Morales movement regain its letters of nobility in new elections? How could Belgium participate in this new election process to ensure stability and peace in that country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u11	Colleagues, suspicions of electoral fraud during the elections on 20 October led to massive protests and violence between the supporters of President Morales and those of his rival Carlos Mesa. When electoral fraud was confirmed on 10 November by an audit of the Organization of American States (OAS) and President Morales' position became precarious, he resigned and fled. Jeanine Áñez, a member of the opposition and second vice-president of the Senate, self-proclaimed ad interim president. His task is to lead Bolivia during the interim period leading to new elections scheduled for May and June this year. It has reached an agreement to this effect with the moderate wing of the MAS, the Morales party, which still has a majority in Parliament. This agreement paves the way for a democratic solution to the crisis. On 19 December, the Bolivian Parliament elected a new electoral tribunal. The European Union, the OAS and the Catholic Church were present as observers. Since then, this new body has set the date for the parliamentary elections and the first round of presidential elections on 3 May. If necessary, the second round of presidential elections will take place on 14 June. However, recent events have revealed considerable fractures in Bolivian society. The real challenges must therefore be met by the new President and his government. The situation in Bolivia has been discussed several times in the relevant working group of the European Council. The Foreign Ministers of the European Union also discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on 9 December 2019 how best to support Bolivia in the preparation of the announced elections and evaluates the possibility of sending a European Union election observation mission there. Its Member States supported an institutional solution allowing the interim government to hold new elections and avoid a power vacuum. It was essential to defend the country's return to constitutional normalcy so that the rule of law and civil rights could be respected. Belgium has neither had recent contacts with the Bolivian authorities nor provided financial and technical support to the process of restoring stability. On the other hand, it had welcomed the establishment of the transitional government, as it strengthened independent democratic institutions and guaranteed peace and security in the country. In the meantime, the fundamental rights of the rule of law and those provided for in the Bolivian Constitution have been reconfirmed by a political agreement between all political parties, with the so-called "guarantee law". Belgium supports further credible, democratic and free elections scheduled for 3 May and is in favour of a possible European Union election observation mission. You know that Bolivia is a cooperative partner and continues to help strengthen Bolivia's democratic institutions and its social and economic development. The situation in Bolivia is not on the agenda of the United Nations Security Council. Countries are only put on the agenda of the Security Council when international peace and security are threatened, which is not the case in Bolivia. On the other hand, the members of the Security Council had contact with Jean Arnault, who had been designated as a personal envoy for Bolivia. Jean Arnault spoke positively about the role of the European Union, the Catholic Church and the United Nations. These three forums have made a significant contribution to the facilitation of negotiations and must continue to do so. The Embassy of the United States in Brussels informed me of the American position on Bolivia. My services did not have direct contact with the OAS but were well informed about the results of the election observation mission and the audit of election results that confirmed electoral fraud. Travel tips on the FPS Foreign Affairs website have been adapted during the events. Travel advice is reviewed very regularly to provide adequate and as comprehensive safety advice as possible to our compatriots. These opinions are, however, not binding. News in the form of a flash about the situation in general, security information by area, etc. are communicated at the departure of the embassy in Lima. As for the requests for more detailed explanations and advice, the Honorary Consuls in La Paz and Santa Cruz have been in regular contact with the Belgian community. The two Honorary Consuls were very available for the Belgians on site and particularly active in their communication with them. The Belgian economic presence in Bolivia is very limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u12	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. We will have to remain vigilant about the development of the situation, as the events of this autumn have revealed, as you stressed, deep divisions in the country: territorial, social but also – and this is worrying – ethnic with a sometimes almost racist dimension. It will therefore be necessary to be very vigilant in this area and not to show the same complacency as other partner countries with the transitional government, which, in my view, has the exclusive role of preparing for the elections in May and June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u13	Mr Minister, I would simply like to add that I welcome the role played by the European Union in this case as a mediator and a possible observation mission for the May elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u14	Madam President, Minister, on 18 November, Mike Pompeo, US Secretary of State, made the following statement: "The establishment of Israeli civilian settlements in the West Bank is not in itself contrary to international law". This announcement broke with the historic position of the United States, which had so far been supported by a binding legal opinion of the 1978 State Department, which claimed that the establishment of population settlements in those territories was contrary to international law. The American decision, while enthusiastically welcomed by Mr Netanyahu's government, which we doubted, obviously resembles a massacre on the Palestinian side and on the part of the international community. This measure is the last of a series of provocations initiated with the relocation of the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and continued by the recognition of part of the Syrian Golan Heights as Israeli. Let us recall that the settlements exist and are spreading in complete violation of United Nations resolution 2334. Minister, this is an extremely serious decision, which must be strongly condemned and which leads to the following questions. How does our country stand in the face of these statements? Have you communicated your disapproval of the US authorities? Have any steps been taken, within the European framework and at the United Nations level, to ensure compliance with United Nations resolutions that require the United States as a Member State?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u15	Madam President, Minister, Belgium has decided over the past few months to restrict the recognition of asylum applications by Gazans. This decision calls for further action. I asked your colleague Minister De Block about this, but I wanted to have the government's perspective on the foreign affairs aspect. This decision calls upon me all the more since the situation in Gaza is catastrophic. Indeed, while some people are oppressed by Hamas, the main reason for the suffering of more than two million Palestinians is related to the living conditions made impossible by the blockade imposed by Israeli governments for more than ten years. The World Bank itself says that the situation in Gaza will be unbearable by 2020 – I introduced the issue in 2019 and 2020, we are there! Contrary to what is sometimes said, there is therefore a humanitarian crisis caused by political decisions. I would like to give some figures to illustrate this humanitarian crisis. I recall that 97 per cent of the Palestinian water table in Gaza is contaminated, that 70 per cent of young people are unemployed or that 80 per cent of people live with global food aid. On Tuesday, 12 November, the Israeli government decided to carry out an extrajudicial assassination of a leader of Islamic Jihad, in response to rocket fire by Palestinian armed groups. The Israeli response that followed claimed the lives of 32 people. With an unrivalled population density in the world, a dire security, humanitarian and socio-economic situation as well as unbearable health conditions, according to WHO, the lives of Gazans on the ground are unlikely to improve in the near future. Minister, what was your official response to this new outbreak of violence? Do you clearly condemn extrajudicial executions by the Israeli army and the disproportionate use of force? What are the concrete actions taken by Belgium to achieve an end to the blockade?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u16	Minister, on Tuesday 12 November last year, the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed the obligation to label origin on products from Israeli settlements through the reply to a question for a preliminary ruling. The label must clearly indicate that the product comes from an Israeli colony. The consumer has the right to make a clear and informed choice. The lack of clarity about the origin of certain products can cause consumers to buy unwanted products from illegal settlements. In the meantime, the very non-binding recommendation to the traders in our country has remained largely dead letter. However, it is now clear that labelling is not as non-binding as the recommendation suggests. The impact of colonisation on Palestinian agriculture is considerable and is causing enormous damage to the Palestinian economy. Moreover, the Court of Justice underlines that Israeli settlements are illegal. Fortunately, the principle of thorough differentiation, economic but also political, between Israel itself and the settlements, is gaining ground. Minister, what will be the consequences of the decision, both in Belgium and in the EU? Will the recommendation, which has remained essentially dead letter since 2014, now be converted into an obligation? If so, in what form? What other measures do you think are conceivable at the Belgian and European levels in order to put differentiation into practice? What obstacles remain for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to release the database of companies active in the settlements? This would, after all, significantly facilitate the implementation of compulsory labelling. I'll come to my next question. On 18 November, the US Secretary of State stated that the US no longer considers Israeli settlements in the West Bank to be contrary to international law. This step by the Trump administration is yet another solution to the Palestinian conflict. Have you been in contact with the US Secretary of State or the American Ambassador on this matter? What was your message? Has the issue been raised at European level? If that is the case, what message has Belgium brought there? What can Belgium and the European Union do to strengthen the rights of Palestinians in the occupied territories? Can the issue be raised in the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u17	Madam President, Minister, in addition to the questions I asked earlier, I would like to address another point which I believe is of concern. On 13 November, the American Ubai Abudi, director of the non-governmental organization Bisan Center for Research and Development, was brutally arrested by the Israeli army in front of his wife and children. After appearing before an Israeli military court, he is now in administrative detention at Ofer prison, without any charges being brought against him. A petition was launched in this regard by the international organization Scientists for Palestine, which promotes the science and integration of Palestinian researchers into the international scientific community. Ubai Abudi is a major player in development and education projects in Palestine. He had already been arrested in 2005 and 2010 and spent a total of four years in Israeli prisons. His case is reminiscent of that of Itiraf Remawi, the previous leader of the same NGO, who was arrested in September 2014. My colleague, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, had asked your predecessors many times about his situation. Minister, this new arrest leads me to ask you several questions. First, do you have more information on the reasons for Mr.Aboudi's detention? Do you intend to question the Israeli authorities on this (if not already done) and, more comprehensively, on the issue of administrative detentions, which appear not only arbitrary but also political?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u18	Mr Minister, my question, like the questions put by Mr Ben Accour and Mr De Vriendt, concerns the statements made by the US Foreign Minister, Mike Pompeo. What he says doesn't surprise me at the end of the day, because it is in line with the activities of the United States in the Middle East, where it is clearly not really the intention to establish peace, but rather to take a position. With regard to Israel, the United States has not chosen the two-state solution. Minister Pompeo's statement also contradicts UN Resolution 2334, which calls for a two-state solution. In this sense, his ruling goes against international law. As Belgium is also part of the UN Security Council, I would like to ask you about this, in line with the questions already asked. Minister, how do you respond to the statements of the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo? Will you raise the Belgian position on Israeli settlement policy in bilateral contacts with the US and the Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for these questions on Palestine, some of which were addressed to my predecessor. While Minister Reynders did not have an opportunity to respond in committee, he spoke last time on the Middle East peace process at the November 28, 2019 plenary session. It goes without saying that Belgium's position remains unchanged on the various issues that you raise. With regard to the question of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and the statements made by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in this regard, together with the European Union, Belgium considers that settlement policy undermines respect for the fundamental rights of Palestinians and also fundamentally undermines the two-State solution. Settlements are illegal under international law and constitute an obstacle to peace. Federica Mogherini spoke unambiguously on this subject following statements by the US Secretary of State. We are also very concerned about the statements which seem to want to normalise the status of settlement or which refer to the annexation of entire parts of the Western Jordaan bank. This would constitute a serious violation of international law, which we have emphasised several times during our national interventions to the Security Council in November and December in New York. Belgium will not accept any change to the borders before 1967, including Jerusalem, unless these have been agreed between the two Parties. In the margins of the Security Council meeting on 20 November, we also made public statements, together with the French, German, Polish and British partners, as well as the other elected members of the Security Council. Dialogue should continue with our partners in the Security Council, including our American partners, through bilateral and European channels. As regards the labelling of products from Israeli settlements, the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as already indicated in the Commission's interpretative communication of 2015, confirms that the indication of origin of products originating from Israeli settlements should be correct and should not mislead consumers. The position of the European Union on this issue is unchanged. This measure does not constitute a boycott but aims to protect the rights of European consumers. The control and proper implementation of the European rules on the indication of origin are the responsibility of the Member States. In Belgium this matter falls within the competence of the FPS Economy. I therefore invite you to question my colleague, Nathalie Muylle, for more information. As regards the database, Belgium has repeatedly expressed its support for the High Commissioner for Human Rights in the exercise of his mandate. At the final session of the 41st session of the Human Rights Council on 12 July 2019, Belgium, together with other partners, called for this mandate to be carried out in complete independence. With regard to the humanitarian and security situation in Gaza, we regret these persistent cycles of violence that undermine the right of Israelis and Palestinians to live side by side in peace and security. During the Security Council, Belgium strongly condemned the firing of rockets into Israeli territory, which targeted the inhabited areas, in response to an Israeli operation. We welcomed the ceasefire established through the efforts of the United Nations and Egypt, and we called on all parties to the utmost restraint in order to sustain the ceasefire. We recalled the imperative for the parties to respect the rules of international humanitarian law and human rights. It was important to conduct thorough investigations into alleged violations of international humanitarian law. The cycle of violence facing the Gaza Strip recalls the need to take concrete steps to improve the economic and humanitarian situation, including the lifting of the blockade and the full opening of the crossing points, while taking into account Israel's legitimate security concerns. This position is consistently defended by Belgium before the Security Council. We have also expressed very concrete concern at the very high and increasing number of refusals and delays in the granting of permits by the Israeli authorities concerning children in need of medical care outside Gaza. Finally, with regard to administrative detentions, Mr.Aboudi has been detained since 13 November 2019 and has been the subject of an administrative detention order for four months. I have asked our Consulate General in Jerusalem and our Embassy in Tel Aviv to follow closely the developments in this matter and to inform me accordingly. Belgium's general position on administrative detention is clear and obviously applies to Mr Aboudi's case. Administrative detention must remain an exceptional measure applied for a limited period of time. Various guarantees must be present, such as the rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u20	Minister, the positions taken by the Israeli government and its policy are not surprising. We've been used to it for several years. What is much more worrying is the increasingly disconcerted alignment of the US government with these extreme positions and policies of the Israeli government. I will also add this increasingly strong form of intimidation or pressure that the US government, and particularly its President, is putting on its European partners. I plead that, in this context, Europe should be able to speak with another voice and leave the declamatory register. Indeed, we must be able to accompany these positions with concrete actions. In this respect, the labelling of colonial products, which we will have to discuss tomorrow in committee, where hearings are planned, is a first step. To me, he must be the first in a long series. As for Mr.Aboudi's administrative detention, I heard your answer. Here again, I believe that the European Union, and Belgium in particular, must show more clearly its disapproval of methods which seem to be a matter for the judiciary but which actually have a real political significance. By stopping this type of personality, Israel knows exactly what it does and what it wants to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u21	Thank you for your answers, Minister. With regard to the various points raised, I would like to make you aware of the positions taken this morning by Mr Gantz's main opposition bloc in Israel. He also told me that he wanted to annex the West Bank. We are therefore in a situation where the two main Israeli parties have the same will. More than to regret it, we must prepare ourselves for serious violations of international law. I am a little surprised at the contradiction between, on the one hand, the position of Mrs De Block, who is launching deterrent campaigns in Gaza to prevent the Gazans from coming to Belgium, and, on the other hand, the recognition of a situation that is worsening. The cycle of violence is fuelled by a thirteen-year blockade that prevents economic and social development, and plunges the people of Gaza into an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. I would also like to remind you of the disproportion of the Israeli response, which has been noted in several reports, in particular by the United Nations; it is also a collective punishment which can be condemned under international law. I would also point out that Belgium could play a more important role in the settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by banning settlement products, as has been done for Crimea. Finally, it is urgent to recognize the Palestinian State in order to restore hope to the people and to restore fairness in future negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u22	Minister, thank you for your alert attitude to Pompeo's statements, both in the European Union and in the UN Security Council. I myself visited Jerusalem during the Christmas period, and I have been able to identify the very precarious balance which can be disturbed by a very small action. I therefore believe that we must remain very alert to this situation. We must also dare to contact the United States on a bilateral basis. I did not get an answer to my question about how this happened in relation to the United States. Yesterday it was also found that another Belgian development project by Oxfam was destroyed. It seems clear to me, therefore, that the tensions there are increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lacroix was put off. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55001853 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u24	Madam President, Minister, my question dates from last November and follows President Macron's statement that NATO was in a state of "cerebral death". Other countries, including Germany, responded that European defence should remain integrated into NATO. If I ask you today, it is because Belgium, as a founding member of NATO, does not yet seem to be clearly expressed on this subject. On the other hand, shortly thereafter, we learned that an agreement had been reached within NATO to allow the United States to finance the organization only to a maximum of 16.35 per cent instead of 22.1 per cent at present. This serious decrease also affects Belgium, since our contribution would increase by 3.5 million euros per year, while France, for its part, would have refused to increase its participation. Mr Minister, why has Belgium agreed to contribute more, while the United States is seeing its contribution shrink sharply and France is simply saying no? Will European countries, including Germany, which will now contribute as much as the United States, have a greater influence on NATO's decisions? Finally, was not the current status of the federal government a legal barrier to the increase in Belgian contribution to NATO? Take the commitment to pay more to NATO from 2021 to 2024 and thus make it difficult to return to funding of 1.95 % of the organisation, is this not to make a lasting commitment for Belgium beyond the framework of current affairs and therefore also unstable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u25	Since Mr Dallemagne and Mr Bayet are not here to ask their questions, I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the UN and NATO are two very different organisations. Through the Atlantic Alliance, Belgium has been organizing its security for 70 years in a multilateral framework. The decision-making process within NATO operates on the principle of consensus. There is no differentiation on a geographical basis. The French president's interview with The Economist magazine last November is in a way a serious reminder. In this context, the choice of words particularly about NATO diverts some attention from certain arguments which, for the rest, remain very relevant. I recognize that the French President is not wrong in some points advanced during this meeting, particularly when he refers to the geopolitical challenges facing the European Union. It also refers to the urgent need to step up our efforts in the field of European defence. In this regard, our country fully supports the European intervention initiative and the European Defence Fund. Moreover, it is true that several recent events have highlighted the importance of political dialogue within the Alliance. I am thinking, for example, of what happened in Syria and, in particular, of the blatant lack of prior coordination with the other allies in the head of the United States and Turkey. However, I am pleased that NATO remains the cornerstone of collective defence in Europe and an indispensable platform for coordinating with our allies on the other side of the Atlantic. I will continue to plead for the strengthening of the European pillar within the Alliance and for the extension of cooperation between the European Union and NATO as they mutually strengthen the two institutions. The strengthening of European defence must be complementary to NATO. With regard to Mr Dallemagne's question, the Alliance's forthcoming strategic thinking is aimed at further strengthening the political dimension of NATO, including consultation under the terms of the declaration adopted at the NATO meeting in London last December. The outline of this exercise will be defined in the coming months. Our Prime Minister, Sophie Wilmès, has already announced that Belgium wishes to contribute its expertise. I believe that NATO has the necessary mechanisms to adapt, modernize and face new security challenges. However, it would be naive to claim that the Alliance does not face certain questions. If we have a dialogue with others, it is also necessary to be able to dialogue between us. In this context, the Belgian contribution that I will defend will be based on the principles I have just set out, namely a multilateral approach to security and a strengthening of cooperation between the European Union and NATO. With regard to the increase in the Belgian contribution to the NATO budget, as a reminder, in 2014 the allies promised to increase their defence spending to reach 2% of the gross domestic product, of which 20% will have to be invested in the acquisition of new capabilities. To bridge the great disparity between US defence spending and the spending of European allies, the cost sharing review is part of the debate on burden sharing within NATO, as is the question of increasing defence budgets. It will in no way influence the decision-making mechanisms of the Alliance. The Secretary General of NATO had indeed circulated a proposal for the revision of the contribution allocation keys to the three NATO joint budgets upstream of the meeting of the Heads of State and Government in London on 3 and 4 December 2019. The proposal aims to reduce the contribution of the United States to the same level as that of Germany in relative terms. Other allies will be expected to fill the difference. The new allocation keys will begin in 2021 and will have to be revised again in 2024. Apart from France, all the other allies have decided to join the consensus. Belgium accepted the Secretary-General's compromise proposal, while issuing a letter of comment which states that the next revision of the distribution keys planned for 2024 should be a collective decision with as guiding principles the unity of the alliance, transparency, solidarity and inclusion. This approach is consistent with the December 21, 2018 Circular on Routine Business. As a member of NATO, Belgium must fulfil its international obligations in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u27	Madam President, Minister, as I was telling you a few minutes ago, this is a more delicate issue. I must confess that, at the very beginning of my term of office, several members of the large Rwandan community living in Belgium questioned me about acts of espionage, intimidation, and multiple pressure from the regime of Paul Kagame who, apparently, is ready to do anything to muzzle his dissidents, opponents, even foreign or Belgian journalists on our territory. Our country seems to be in no way spared by what some have called "Rwandese death squads". On 16 October last, the Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, confirmed in this Parliament, in response to a question, that the Rwandan intelligence services were indeed active in our territory in order to weaken – I quote – "what is perceived as a potential political threat from the Rwandan opposition in Belgium". On 30 October, a Financial Times investigation reported that Rwandan dissidents living in Belgium and with refugee status had hacked on WhatsApp. Guy Rapaille, the former Chairman of the R Committee, was also heard, who, in response to questions from Canadian journalists, reported the arrival in Europe of members of the Rwandan intelligence services to eliminate opponents or, at least, to pressure potential opponents to force them to be discreet. All I'm doing here is repeating the words of these former officials. These are extremely serious facts. A sovereign State cannot tolerate threats on its territory from foreign intelligence services, wherever they come from. Therefore, let me ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is the exact nature and extent of the interference by Rwandan intelligence services in Belgium? What are the charges specifically brought against the Rwandan Embassy in Brussels? Indeed, it seems that it is from this embassy that the Rwandan intelligence services would operate. What is the level of information exchange with Rwanda permitted by the agreement signed between the SGRS and the Rwandan intelligence services? Can the content of this agreement be shared with Parliament? I ask myself this question because on 7 December last, Le Soir revealed a confidential agreement between Belgium and Rwanda. Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs ever summoned the Ambassador of Rwanda to Belgium to hold him accountable and, if necessary, to ask him to put an end to the interferences of Rwandan intelligence services in Belgium which seem, I repeat, overly serious? The Federal Prosecutor's Office has recently opened an investigation into a diplomat from the Embassy of Rwanda in Brussels, who is said to have been asked to inquire about the wife of a Belgian journalist. Can applications for accreditation of certain diplomats who represent a danger or who are identified as spies be refused by the FPS Foreign Affairs? Have the problems of espionage, intimidation and the potential crimes committed on Belgian soil by Rwandan intelligence services been discussed – beyond our contacts with the Embassy – through our bilateral relations with the Rwandan government and its President Paul Kagame? Finally, have any sanctions been envisaged against Rwanda as a result of these acts of interference? If so, what policy does the FPS Foreign Affairs pursue to prevent these threats?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I will have to read your reply in the report. I cannot stay for the answer because I am expected in another committee to discuss a legislative initiative. The press reported extensively on 22 November on the activities of the Rwandan intelligence services in our country. They are apparently concerned with threats and intimidation of Rwandan opposition figures, but also of Belgians who are critical of the Kigali regime. There have already been assassinations abroad against Rwandan opponents who are seriously suspected to be the work of the Rwandan secret services. On 16 October, the Minister of Justice stated that he was aware of the activities of the Rwandan services on our territory. The Chief of the ADIV also stated that the Rwandan services are a priority for the ADIV. To what extent can our country tolerate clandestine activities by the Rwandan, and by extension any foreign intelligence service on our territory? Have you heard of Rwanda's activities on our territory? Can you confirm that these services involve intimidation, threats and possibly violence? Did you address the Rwandan ambassador on this matter? If so, when? What was the tone of that possible conversation? Is it possible to check the accreditation of Rwandan diplomats? Has that already happened? Will you give the order for this? What are the conclusions? Are there any diplomats who actually belong to the Rwandan intelligence services? Do our services know that? In the press, Gunther Vanpraet, the Rwandan honorary consul in Belgium, stated that the Rwandan government had asked him to report things if he heard anything. He also stated that former journalist Peter Verlinden showed up in Rwandan investigations. On Twitter he also named Verlinden as the spokesperson of the armed Rwandan opposition in Belgium. In your opinion, is this the role an honorary consul should play? Do you find this problematic?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u29	Minister, I too have been briefed on the Rwandan critical voices being silenced in our country by so-called spies from the Rwandan intelligence services. The Belgian Security of the State and the Minister of Justice have already confirmed the threat posed by the Rwandan intelligence services. How do you respond to this? Do you confirm the presence of the Rwandan intelligence services on our Belgian territory? Who's involved? Are Rwandan diplomats involved in this too? If so, what measures will you take? Are you going to raise this in bilateral contacts with the Rwandan regime or have you already done so? If not, are you going to bring this up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it absolutely clear to you that freedom of expression is at the heart of our democratic values and that it is completely unacceptable that the exercise of that fundamental right should give rise to any form of pressure or intimidation. I also have every confidence in the work of our justice system, which is competent in this area, in safeguarding these fundamental rights and in carrying out the necessary investigations after a complaint has been lodged. With regard to the surveillance of interference activities in our territory, I can assure you that the Belgian intelligence services, both the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'Etat, are of course very vigilant. They are responsible for detecting and analysing any activities of foreign intelligence services which threaten Belgium. For obvious reasons of national security and classified information, such records cannot be publicly disclosed. However, the R Committee, the Federal Police, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and my department are systematically informed of such facts. Furthermore, I can assure you that we are particularly demanding in terms of respect for the principles of the Vienna Convention by the various diplomatic representations present on our territory. As regards the accreditation of Rwandan diplomats, I can inform you that the Foreign Office checks the visa applications in accordance with Article 11 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. The visa will not be granted if our services have information that the diplomat is sent to Belgium to carry out activities incompatible with the diplomatic function. The refusal of a diplomatic visa also does not require any justification. With regard to your question on Rwanda's Honorary Consul in Belgium, I can answer that the application for the appointment of an Honorary Consul is submitted by the Embassy in respect of the Protocol Service and must be supported by several criteria. The appointment procedure involves several investigations. After agreement, a power of attorney or exequatur shall be drawn up on the Belgian side on receipt of the licence from the foreign authorities. An honorary officer does not have the status of diplomat and has very limited privileges and immunities, not comparable to an accredited diplomat sent out by the sending state. The FPS Foreign Affairs has the right to unilaterally terminate the exequatur authorization in the event of misuse of the title by the Honorary Consul or in the event of objection. Finally, I can assure you that our services are monitoring the human rights and civil and political freedoms situation in Rwanda very closely. Moreover, we regularly address these issues to the competent authorities in Rwanda, in particular in connection with the various political dialogues we hold with different bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, at first glance, I can only welcome your reaffirmation of the principle of freedom of expression and of the Vienna Convention on Consular and Diplomatic Relations. However, I have the impression that your answer remains very general. We are dealing here with very specific accusations from very high officials: in this case, the former Chairman of the R Committee, Guy Rapaille, and the Minister of Justice, who acknowledged these acts of interference in commission. He added that the State Security had explicitly confirmed these facts – as did the new boss of the SGRS. We are therefore talking about very serious accusations of death threats, targeting not only political dissidents, but also refugees and journalists – sometimes even Belgians. That is why, in my view, I must admit that the federal government cannot stand by and must publicly condemn these acts of interference, which are unacceptable in a state governed by the rule of law, regardless of the foreign power concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u32	Minister, I would like to join Mr Cogolati. I also understand that you cannot quote from a classified file and that not all the elements can be given. This shows that the file is taken seriously, as the file has a certain secrecy. I can only encourage you to take this matter seriously. I myself have heard from the journalist, Peter Verlinden, that it is very serious and that people are really scared. People should not be intimidated on Belgian territory because their views do not correspond to those of the Kagame regime. We must be very alert and continue to stress in our political dialogue that this is a freedom for us, that we will not admit to it and that we will continue to fight for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u33	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your question. Indeed, this will allow me to shed some light on our policy in Burundi. Burundi is currently in an electoral phase with many risks and challenges. A successful electoral process would be an important step in the history of that country, which has experienced multiple crises since its independence. The last one began in 2015 following the President's announcement of his intention to run for a third term. Unfortunately, we note that one of the fundamental freedoms, as part of an electoral process, is currently being abused. It's freedom of the press. The arrest of the four Iwacu journalists and their drivers took place in a very difficult context for the entire media sector in Burundi, including the international media. With regard to the journalists of Iwacu, in particular, we learned on 30 December that at the hearing of the Bubanza court, the Public Prosecutor's Office had requested a 15-year prison sentence and the seizure of the material. The judgement is under deliberation and will be delivered at the end of January. We hope for the leniency of Burundi's justice system, as this sentence seems particularly heavy for journalists who, a priori, came to cover an armed attack that has already been completed. I welcome the adoption of a European Parliament resolution calling for their release. Our ambassador in Bujumbura had the opportunity to convey our concerns about the fate of Iwacu journalists during a meeting with the Burundian Foreign Minister last month. It should be recalled that "progress in the field of press freedom is one of the fundamental criteria for lifting the measures" (Article 96 of the European Union). Belgium closely monitors the human rights situation in Burundi. We have given asylum to many Burundian human rights defenders since the start of the crisis in 2015. We have also made an important financial contribution to the functioning of the United Nations Office for Human Rights in Burundi. Unfortunately, a few months later, in February 2019, the Burundian authorities decided to close this office permanently. This decision illustrates the difficulty of working on the human rights situation in Burundi. It is even difficult for us to support local NGOs, as they are then in the collimator of the Burundian authorities. Some Belgian NGOs in the field of human rights, such as 11.11.11 or Lawyers Without Borders, have preferred to leave Burundi in the face of the government's intentions to impose ethnic quotas on their staff. But all this does not prevent us from drawing attention to the human rights situation in Burundi in all international forums, particularly in the Security Council. I would also like to remind you of our intervention at the United Nations Human Rights Council last September in order to support the extension of the mandate of the United Nations commission of inquiry. Finally, it should be pointed out that Belgium's possible role in the organisation of elections will be limited, because the Burundian authorities insist on organizing them themselves, without external assistance, certainly Western. In particular, the Government of Burundi wants these elections to be fully self-funded and affirms that it has already collected the necessary budgets to that end. In terms of international observation, the authorities only accept African observers. Even European and American diplomats present on the spot may not have access to polling stations. Finally, helping local civil society or the church is extremely complicated in view of all the restrictions imposed by the authorities. In this context, you will understand that Belgium and, more broadly, the European Union will not be able to play the role they would like to play in supporting this electoral process. That will not, however, prevent us from following the situation very closely and ensuring that Burundi remains on the agenda of international fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u34	Thank you and apologize for this little game of musical chairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u35	If Members agree, I will replace Mrs Van Hoof, and I will allow myself to ask questions from this seat in order to avoid unnecessary traffic in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u36	Minister, from November 16 to 22, 2019, Princess Astrid represented the King on an economic mission in Beijing and Shanghai. Minister, what diplomatic contacts did they take place? Has Belgium been able to address human rights violations, particularly of the Uighur minority in the province of Xinjiang? Of course, I am particularly concerned about the situation of Mrs.Abula and her children. This family was arrested in front of the Belgian Embassy in Beijing. What was the reply from China received by Belgium at the time as a guarantee concerning Ms.Abula? What is Belgium's position now, on the basis of this observation which Mrs Abula would have completely disappeared? I also wonder about the second letter concerning the situation in Hong Kong, in which Belgium called for a de-escalation of violence. Finally, I know that Belgium has committed itself to the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights of 17 June 2011. In this context, how did the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan express itself during the economic mission to China? Have any concrete results been achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u37	Mr President, during the economic mission to China, various high-level talks were held with Chinese officials, including the Vice-President, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Trade, the Minister for Ecology and the Environment. There was also a meeting with the President of the Asian Bank for Infrastructure Investments. During these discussions, a wide range of topics were discussed: defence of multilateralism, WTO reform, Belgium-China connectivity, bilateral trade, respect for intellectual property rights, sustainable development, state of play on Belgian pork exports, prospects for bilateral cooperation in the health care and clean technologies sector. In his meeting with Mr. Wang Yi, Minister Reynders gave him two letters. The first letter recalls and explains the positions taken by Belgium in the UN fora on the human rights situation and the Uighur minority in Xinjiang. These positions, consistent with our foreign policy based inter alia on the defence of human rights, had been criticized by China. In coordination with the Member States of the European Union and other like-minded countries, Belgium has been active on this issue. In July 2019, at the 41st session of the Human Rights Council, we co-signed a letter with 24 other countries on the human rights situation in Xinjiang. In response, a counter-letter of Chinese initiative, supporting Beijing's policy, was signed by 37 countries. In November 2019, in the framework of the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, the interactive dialogue with the Chairman of the Committee against All Forms of Racial Discrimination, Belgium again co-signed, together with 22 other countries, a letter on the situation of human rights in Xinjiang with a request for access to Xinjiang for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. This letter was followed again by a counter-letter of Chinese initiative signed by 54 countries and supporting Beijing policy. The independence of Belgian human rights positions from any pressure, wherever it comes from, has been reminded of the Chinese authorities. The second letter calls for a speedy settlement, through constructive dialogue with the Chinese authorities, of the family reunification file involving a Chinese Uighur family residing in Xinjiang. Since then, contacts have continued with the Chinese authorities. No letter on the situation in Hong Kong was delivered to the Chinese authorities during the Princely Economic Mission. On the question of the political crisis and demonstrations in Hong Kong, like my predecessor, Minister Reynders, I wish to convey the agreed positions and messages within the European Union, which is our most effective channel of communication, namely, on the one hand, the condemnation of violence, the call for constructive and inclusive dialogue and the maintenance of Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy and, on the other hand, respect for fundamental freedoms, including the right to peaceful demonstration, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. The issue of autonomy and political rights in Tibet was not addressed in the official talks of Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders. Belgium deals with this issue preferably within the framework of the relevant multilateral human rights forums in Geneva or New York. I come back to the problem in a later answer this afternoon, if the timetable allows us to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u38	Minister, thank you for that answer. Do we have any reassuring news about the situation of Mrs.Abula and the children we could send to the father who is a refugee in Ghent, Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u39	We do not have direct contact, but we continue to be insistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u40	Minister, in the same context, I would like to know the response of the federal government and the FPS Foreign Affairs to the computer attacks that targeted members of the Belgian economic mission to China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u41	Mr Cogolati, protection against a growing cyber threat is a particular challenge for citizens, businesses and public authorities. Acts of cyber malice are on the rise and are becoming increasingly complex, with the potential to have a major impact on our security and prosperity. As a government, the necessary precautions must be taken. For example, I note that the Travel Security brochure. How to protect its data while travelling abroad, which contains concrete advice to secure information during travel, has been drafted by the State Security and is accessible to the public. Additional measures for the government are also planned, if necessary. It is obvious that I cannot give any more details on this point. During a preliminary briefing with members of the official delegation of the trade mission to China last November, the importance of information protection was addressed. Such meetings are also organized for missions to other countries. You will not be surprised to learn that the cyber activities reported by one of the members of the delegation during this mission are the subject of an in-depth analysis, which is still ongoing. At this time, we cannot confirm the accuracy of the allegations. I continue to follow this issue closely. Official participants in the official mission were able to discuss with experts during a debriefing. International cooperation is more essential than ever in order to effectively combat cyber-malevolence. Indeed, cyberspace knows no borders. We are working for operational collaboration to achieve tangible results and clear agreements as to what may or may not be undertaken. This is why Belgium is actively contributing to European initiatives to strengthen cybersecurity, both through diplomacy – notably through the Cyber Diplomacy Toolbox – and through defence – through the European Defence Frameworks and the European Defence Agency – or through concrete legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u43	Mr Minister, you referred to the protests in Hong Kong in your previous reply on the economic mission to China, but you also indicated that Belgium had not submitted a specific letter about these protests, which are nevertheless very worrying. Indeed, 6,000 arrests of persons between the ages of 11 and 82 are mentioned. I therefore wonder what Belgium's position is with regard to China's compliance with the 1984 retrocession agreement, and in particular Article 3 thereof, which provides for a high degree of autonomy and the promise of elections by universal suffrage. Elections have recently been held for districts at the local level. What are Belgium and the European Union doing to put an end to the violence against demonstrators? Does Belgium have a strategy to break the current impasse? A particularly disturbing Human Rights Watch report has just been published. A strong and proactive response from Belgium would be particularly welcome in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u44	Mr President, since the beginning of the protests, my services have closely followed developments in Hong Kong in cooperation with our consulate-general on the spot and with the relevant services of the European Union. In line with the principle of "one country, two systems", my services have already stressed to the Hong Kong authorities last July the importance Belgium attaches to freedom of expression in a peaceful manner and to the preservation of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Basic Law. My services have also focused on dialogue and consultation with citizens and civil society in Hong Kong, a message that, since the beginning of the political crisis in Hong Kong, has been conveyed on several occasions by the High Representative on behalf of the European Union, Ms Mogherini. During his visit to Hong Kong on 22 November, in parallel with an economic mission of Flanders Investment & Trade (FIT), Federal Minister Philippe De Backer had a meeting with Chief Executive Carrie Lam. In addition to economic issues, the political crisis was also raised. This point was first and foremost agreed with the European delegation in Hong Kong. Minister De Backer underlined the position of the European Union with a plea for a de-escalation, dialogue and condemnation of all violence. He also emphasised the constructive role the European Union wants to play and indicated that we are critical but want to avoid megaphone diplomacy. Chief Executive Carrie Lam stated that her government would take an initiative in early 2020 to organise a broad consultation with civil society and the various sectors of the population. The aim is to find a lasting way out of the crisis and a response to deep discontent among the population. The situation in Hong Kong was also raised in the margins of official maintenance during the economic mission in China. Since the beginning of the crisis, the situation in Hong Kong has been placed on the agenda of two Foreign Affairs Councils, under the item 'Current Issues'. It was also discussed on several occasions at PSC (Political and Security Committee) meetings. Belgium has always supported the position of the High Representative for External Relations: condemnation of violence, proportionate use of force by the police, de-escalation, dialogue, respect for fundamental freedoms, including the right to demonstrate peacefully, the maintenance of Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy, the rule of law and the independence of justice. The European Union remains the best channel for us to express this position. In order to strengthen our voices, it is also important that the European Member States send out the same message. Exchanges of views also take place with other like-minded partners. We continue to monitor closely the evolution of the situation and the potential impact on the security of our citizens and on our economic interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u46	Mr President, Minister, it has been several weeks now that thousands of Lebanese people have been peacefully demonstrating, in all faiths, denouncing the corruption of the country's political elites. These demonstrations have intensified sharply in recent days. In Beirut, a provisional assessment shows that 500 people were injured during clashes with the police, just for this weekend. The situation is therefore becoming extremely worrying. Lebanon is one of the most corrupt countries in the world (138th out of 180), with an extremely high level of distrust of the political class. It was first of all following a proposal for an amnesty law aimed at the crimes of corruption and tax evasion that the demonstrators went down the street. Although the consideration of this proposal by the Lebanese Parliament was postponed to a later date, the protesters' demands have since expanded. They now call for the departure of the corrupt political class (partly made) and the improvement of the economic and social situation. As members of the European Union, we have an important lever to support the legitimate demands of Lebanese citizens. Indeed, the European Union is one of the nearly 50 States and international institutions that participated in the Economic Conference for Development through Reform and Business (CEDRE) in April 2018 in Paris. These partners pledged to support the Lebanese economy through a $10.2 billion loan through major economic reforms. These reforms call for the privatisation of a number of public services. Minister, what actions has Belgium taken to support the citizens' aspirations of Lebanese and Lebanese women? With regard to the CEDRE programme, do you intend to advocate at European level to make financial aid conditional on anti-corruption policies and democratic reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u47	Colleagues, I hear that Mrs Rohonyi will be joining us soon, but in order not to waste time, I propose to give the floor directly to the minister. If necessary, Ms Rohonyi will have the opportunity to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my services are obviously following the situation in Lebanon very closely. To answer your first question, on the occasion of a visit by the Benelux political directors to Beirut from 10 to 12 December 2019, Belgium fully supported the position of the European Union, which encourages Lebanese political leaders to form a new government without delay and to implement structural reforms through an inclusive dialogue with civil society. This message was repeated during a meeting between my Director General of Bilateral Affairs and the Lebanese Ambassador in Brussels on 19 December 2019. To answer your second question, in the joint statement of the Economic Conference for Development through Reforms and with Business held in Paris on 6 April 2018, the Lebanese government has committed itself to carrying out the reforms necessary to solve structural difficulties and failures, and to encourage sustainable public and private investment. With regard to structural reforms, the Government of Lebanon has stressed that the fight against corruption and the strengthening of governance and accountability are of the utmost importance. Aid under the CEDRE programme must indeed be granted on the basis of an in-depth dialogue between the various partners, based on the implementation of the commitments in the joint declaration. The situation in Lebanon is regularly discussed between the Member States of the European Union in the geographical working group of the Council of Ministers. Belgium is not part of the international support group referred to, but an exchange of information takes place within this Council working group on the activities of the international support group. With regard to the relationship with the new Prime Minister, I have not yet had direct contact with my Lebanese counterpart at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u49	Thank you, Minister. I will then give the floor to Mr Moutquin for his reply. At the same time, please excuse me, Mrs Rohonyi, I will try to give you the floor for the reply, you were absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. I have not heard the answer, so it is difficult to respond knowingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u51	The services tried to warn you before the question was asked. I therefore give the floor to Mr. Moutquin. If you have to add anything, I suggest you do it then, Mrs. Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u52	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I am pleased that the situation was discussed during the visit of the Benelux delegation. I hear your commitment to the fight against corruption. For the rest, the Lebanese government makes promises. However, there are mechanisms for assessing corruption that can be set in motion. So why not assess the situation in terms of corruption? Listening to you, it seems to me that we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u53	Mrs Rohonyi, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u54	Mr President, as I said, it is difficult for me to reply to an answer that I have not heard. I was very concerned about this situation because I was able to attend the event which took place at Poelaert Square in Brussels. I was surprised by the lack of media interest. Media attention emerged after the violence and when tension in Lebanon proved to be greatest. Several people in the community are concerned about the situation, about the power that seems to be incompetent to prevent the economic crisis that threatens the country. It is also unable to respond to the concerns of the population. Minister, I wanted to hear from you about the position of the Belgian federal government in relation to this. What about the repression that took place a few days ago during the clashes and which is attributed to the law enforcement agencies? Amnesty International is concerned today about the repression that has been carried out. Finally, I wanted to hear from you about the European position in this respect and about the consultation that should be initiated with your European counterparts. We know that you play a certain role at European Council level. There is also the international support group for Lebanon. I believe that all these bodies should be able to play a role in relation to the very worrying situation in Lebanon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u55	Mrs Rohonyi, unfortunately you were not present. I knew that when I was chairing the Justice Committee. It's not always easy to break free at the right time. I'd like to make a little suggestion. It is to do, in a month's time, the state of the situation with an update of your question. It will be my pleasure to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u56	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Rohonyi, for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u58	Minister, negotiations are under way to set up a new model for the investment treaties of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union. For several years, civil society has rightly been concerned about the presence of the ISDS arbitration clause in most bilateral investment agreements. This allows a private investor to challenge a country's democratic choice in a court of arbitration when it considers that the measure is detrimental to its interests. This tool therefore tends to favour private companies at the expense of the general interest. In the past, ISDS has allowed companies to oppose an increase in the minimum wage in Egypt, an exit from nuclear power in Germany or public health warnings on cigarette packages in Australia and Uruguay. The federal government began this work in 2014 and the adoption of a new text had been announced in March 2018, without it being made public to date. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the status of this new text? What are the main changes to the old model, particularly as a result of the CETA? What about the ISDS issue in particular? Will this text be made public?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u59	Dear colleague, in 2018, an agreement was concluded at Belgian level, with the Regions and with Luxembourg, on a new model for the bilateral investment treaties of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union. The aim was to obtain a text that was as ambitious in terms of the promotion and protection of investments as it was in terms of the integration of societal and social developments. The text model is evolutionary. It represents a starting point for negotiations with third countries. Adjustments, therefore, are obviously possible in this context. Currently, the text model of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is being submitted to the European Commission for analysis, as part of the request to open new negotiations. The Commission made a few comments on the text. The way in which these remarks can be integrated is currently being discussed in consultation with the Regions and the Communities. The new model contains a number of improvements compared to the old text model. The main improvements are: strengthening the clauses on sustainable development, including social and environmental standards; strengthening the right of States to enact laws and, in particular, to raise the level of social and environmental protection. Also included are the inclusion of UNCITRAL transparency rules (the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law) with, inter alia, the publicity of arbitration procedures; guarantees for the independence of judges and ombudsmen; the establishment of a consultation mechanism that allows for the first time for civil society to be involved in the monitoring and enforcement of decisions; a time limitation clause that automatically replaces the dispute settlement mechanism by the Multilateral Investment Court once it is established; and better access for SMEs. The text template was shared with the House of Representatives on March 28, 2019 and is available to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will not go much further, except to recall that a country like Ecuador has already been fined $14 billion — 41 per cent of the State budget. I would like to quote a Spanish judge who specializes in this type of arbitration: "I sometimes wake up at night thinking about it. I still do not understand how sovereign States have been able to accept the very principle of investment arbitration. Three private persons have the power to examine, without any restriction or appeal procedure, all actions of the government, all decisions of the courts and all laws and regulations emanating from Parliament." That is why we need to be aware of the attacks on democracy that are caused by such a mechanism and to protect ourselves from it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u61	On Wednesday, 27 November, Amnesty International published an overwhelming report on the work of the Attorney General's Office in Egypt. According to the NGO, this special unit of the Public Prosecutor's Office responsible for investigating threats to national security has become the country's major law enforcement instrument and is said to have led to enforced disappearances, arbitrary deprivation of liberty, torture and ill-treatment. In 2013, the number of prosecutions initiated by the office increased to approximately 529 to 1739 in 2018. "Permanent State of Exception" is the name of this document, which was based on the experience of 138 individuals investigated by the SSSP in 54 cases between 2013 and 2019. It is reported that the Office of the Attorney-General of the State Security, using various fireworks, has detained several thousand people for months or even years. The figures speak for themselves: 345 days of pre-trial detention on average, before being released without being brought before a judge. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Minister. What information about this situation comes back to you through our diplomatic representation on the spot? Will you talk to the Egyptian authorities about the elements mentioned in this report? We know that a few days ago, Mustapha Kassem died in prison for lack of care. The accusations of negligence by the Egyptian authorities were made. This case is very emblematic of many others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u62	Minister, I am going to agree with my colleague, Mr. Ben Achour. Indeed, for several months, the Egyptian regime has embarked on an unprecedented campaign of repression against opponents and journalists. In June, Amnesty was already alerting to a wave of repression aimed at making Egypt "an open prison, where opposition, criticism and independent information do not belong". This repression seems to have intensified in recent weeks and more particularly since the holding at the end of September of a wave of demonstrations denouncing corruption at the state summit. According to the Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies, more than 35 journalists are currently imprisoned in the country, making Egypt the country that jails the most journalists in the world, after China and Turkey. A report by Amnesty International, published at the end of September, denounced the existence in Egypt of a permanent state of emergency which, under the pretext of counter-terrorism, is increasingly using a parallel judicial system that does not offer guarantees of a fair trial. Mr Minister, does Belgium officially condemn the inacceptable repression being carried out against Egyptian journalists and opponents? Do you intend to plead with the Egyptian authorities for the immediate release of imprisoned journalists and political opponents? Are you considering calling into question any bilateral agreements with Egypt, in order to promote an attitude that respects human rights and the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about developments in the human rights situation in Egypt. The Belgian Embassy in Cairo and the services in Brussels are closely following developments and have taken note of the content of the Amnesty International report referred to. We see a series of problematic cases. We are concerned about the conviction and arrest of journalists. In bilateral contacts with Egypt, human rights are systematically part of the agenda at all levels. Belgium is also following the situation in other multilateral fora such as the United Nations and the European Union. Within the framework of the EU-Egypt Association Agreement, human rights issues are systematically addressed in the Subcommittee on Political Affairs of Human Rights and Democracy. The last time was in June 2019. Egypt sees the fight against terrorism as the government's top priority. While fully recognizing the importance of this problem, Belgium reiterates the need to address it with full respect for international human rights law. We will continue to advocate this with the Egyptian authorities within the European Union and at bilateral level. Belgium also made recommendations in this regard within the framework of the United Nations during the last universal periodic review of Egypt, under the auspices of the Human Rights Council, in November 2019. Our country has recommended that Egypt repeal all laws and policies that restrict the activities and rights of human rights defenders. For Belgium, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and of civil society organisations are essential elements of a prosperous democracy. In 2014, Belgium made a recommendation aimed at significantly improving respect for the right to a fair trial, in accordance with article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. At the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, Belgium had already repeatedly expressed its concern about developments, both at the national level and by endorsing the European Union's statements on the human rights situation in Egypt. As early as spring 2019, Belgium and the European Union recalled that, in view of the new constitutional changes, Egypt's international and regional commitments to the rule of law and independence of the judiciary must be respected. The importance of respect for freedom of expression, freedom of the media, freedom of assembly and freedom of association, as well as the fear of unnecessarily restricting the space reserved for civil society, including through arrests and long periods of pre-trial detention, were also stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u64	Minister, I mentioned the name of Mustapha Kassem. I could have quoted Mahmoud Hussein, Ramy Kamel, Solafa Magdy, Hosam el-Sayyad, Mohamed Salah. I could have cited a lot of them. It must be noted that since the so-called coup d'état of 2013, the situation in Egypt has deteriorated. I know this country well, since a prominent member of my family, my father, lived there for 20 years. He told me a lot about the very difficult situation in the country, which is mired in a major economic crisis. In addition to this, the security situation is dramatic, with a regime that wrongly uses and through the alibi of the fight against terrorism to brutally tighten its grip on civil society, which it continues to intimidate. We knew the Mubarak regime, and then there was this beautiful revolution, and then there was Morsi, and then there was the coup, and we are now in a much worse situation than in Mubarak's day. We've got Mubarak getting worse. It is the whole of Egyptian society that suffers from it. As I said earlier, we must move out of the declaratory plan in order to act, weigh and rebalance the relationship with Egypt in a way that is favourable to the people and civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ben Achour, for this reply, which is also based on experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u66	Mr President, I shall agree in the same direction. We are facing an autocratic regime, established after a coup d'état in 2013 and not at all characterized by democratic legitimacy, although it claims to fight terrorism. However, you will agree with me, by closing 35 journalists, the effects on terrorist acts will be insignificant if not non-existent. I hear your willingness to remain attentive to the situation in Egypt, but I believe it will be appropriate to move on to the stage of action. I continue to defend this idea of conditioning bilateral agreements or of defending at European level, between the European Union and Egypt, respect for human rights, even if only by freeing the opponents of General Sissi's regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u67	Minister, my question relates to the offensive against the rights of LGBTQI+ people in Poland. We learn that more than 80 Polish municipalities have declared themselves "free zones of LGBT ideology", a figure which has been steadily increasing in recent months. These shocking local initiatives offer a new illustration of the reactionary offensive led by the conservative circles in power and, first and foremost, by the currently majority party in the country: the PIS. This training continues to target the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queers and intersex persons, as it does for migrants and, more generally, the rule of law. In this regard, I pay particular attention to the reform developed by the majority and aimed at the Constitutional Court. Minister, what is your reaction to the ongoing offensive against the rights of LGBTQI+ people in Poland? What are you going to do? Will Belgium stand in solidarity with these people by officially condemning at European level the serious abuses observed in recent months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u68	Mr Moutquin, the growing discrimination faced by LGBTQI+ people is a major concern of Belgium. This question is therefore closely followed by my services. The fight against all forms of discrimination - including against the LGBTQI+ community - is a priority of our foreign policy in terms of human rights. Our support is expressed through concrete actions such as the participation of our posts in the events organized on the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, the signing of a letter of support for the organisation of the Equality Parade in 2019 and the handing over of this missive to the representatives of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as the participation in the Equality Parade of 8 June last. This year, our position in Warsaw will assume the role of coordinator with regard to the support and participation of the local diplomatic corps in events related to LGBTQI+ rights. Within this framework, various events are planned to raise public awareness. The situation and protection of the rights of LGBTQI+ people is one of the central issues on which the Council of Europe is actively working. Indeed, its norms and mechanisms ensure the promotion and observance of the fundamental rights of all, including the equal rights and dignity of all human beings. The rise of homophobic acts in Europe was addressed as early as the first Council of Ministers in September by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, with the active participation of Belgium. Our country also insisted on the holding of an informal thematic ministers' committee on discrimination against LGBTQI+ people in Europe, due to the increase in the number of homophobic incidents, especially at various events this summer. This meeting took place on 5 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u69	Minister, I am delighted to learn the attitude of our representation in Warsaw with regard to various events, and the support we give to the community mentioned. In general, I am very concerned about this conservative drift against these people in Poland. We are reliving a second Hungarian case in Poland. I encourage you, as well as Europe, not to allow this kind of conservatism without barriers to spread. Here, these are LGBTQI+ communities, but I think other people in Poland are very worried about this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u70	Mr Minister, Belgium has not ratified seventeen conventions and four protocols of the International Labour Organisation, including some of the most important conventions, such as the one on migrant workers or the one on indigenous peoples and other tribes. These conventions are important especially in the context of Mercosur, which is widely discussed. This concerns the protection of indigenous and indigenous communities in Latin American countries. Why has Belgium not yet ratified all ILO conventions? Does Belgium intend to ratify some or all of them in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u71	Mr President, the C190 Convention was adopted at the last session of the International Labour Conference in June 2019. Drafting of the government declaration to submit the instrument to Parliament is under way. The purpose of this declaration will be to determine whether we are in a position to ratify this Convention and, if not, to clarify the provisions that prevent ratification. To date, only four member countries of the International Labour Organization have ratified Convention No. 157. Since 1957, the European Union has adopted two regulations providing for the coordination of national social security systems. These coordination regulations cover all branches of social security and use all the necessary guiding principles: non-discrimination, the principle of assimilation, the principle of aggregation of periods of work for the acquisition and maintenance of insurance or residence rights, the principle of waiver of residence clauses and the principle of good administration. Therefore, the value of Belgium's possible ratification of this instrument is relatively low. Indeed, our country is already bound by a very large number of international social security agreements concerning migrant workers. Moreover, the conditions relating to the export of certain Belgian allowances but also to the possibility of exporting non-contributory benefits (in particular income guaranteed to the elderly) are an obstacle to such ratification. Following a parliamentary question dating back to 2009, it had been found that article 14 of Convention No. 143 posed a problem in ratifying the Convention. Since then, this subject has been regionalised and now falls within the competence of the Regions and the German-speaking Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u72	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u73	Questions Nos. 55002136C and 55002530C by Ms. Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u74	Mr Minister, I shall therefore confine myself to my statement, since we have been questioned by civil society, notably by Amnesty International, but also by the European Centre for Democracy and Human Rights. It appears that the situation of the country's 4,000 political prisoners is disastrous, as they would be deprived of health care. Among these prisoners, there are reportedly a large number of human rights defenders. In addition, the country, which had renounced the death penalty seven years ago, would use it again. Minister, what assessment does Belgium have of the human rights situation in Bahrain? What is Belgium doing to promote human rights in this country? How was the human rights situation mentioned, particularly in Bahrain by Belgium during the 3rd round of bilateral political consultations held on the sidelines of the 15th IISS Manama Dialogue Summit in which Belgium participated? Finally, does Belgium confirm that some prisoners do not have access to medical care? If so, has Belgium condemned this deprivation of care in its bilateral relations with the Kingdom of Bahrain?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u75	Mr Cogolati, as with all other countries, human rights are an integral part of our bilateral discussions with the Bahraini authorities at all levels. This was also the case during the bilateral consultations between our country and Bahrain that took place in November 2019. The Embassy of Belgium and my services follow closely the case to which you refer in your question. Despite concerns about the fairness of the trial, the death sentence of MM. Mohamed Ramadhan and Hussain Ali Moosa have been confirmed. This verdict is still subject to appeal to the Bahraini Court of Cassation. Belgium fully associates itself with the statement made by the European Union and its request to the Bahraini authorities to suspend the execution of these two persons and to ensure that their retrial complies with the norms of international law. Belgium opposes the death penalty in all cases and in all circumstances. The death penalty violates the inalienable right to life enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and constitutes a cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. Capital punishment also has no deterrent effect on crime and miscarriages of justice are irreversible. In addition, during the last universal periodic review of Bahrain under the auspices of the United Nations Human Rights Council, Belgium made recommendations, such as the full implementation of the recommendations made in the report of the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry (Bassiouni report), and on the death penalty, as already mentioned. Bahrain's long-term stability is primarily in the interest of Bahrain itself. Such stability can only be sustainable in an environment in which legitimate political concerns can be freely expressed. An informal dialogue on human rights between the European Union and Bahrain has been held since 2016, during the last session in May 2018. Concerns were expressed regarding guarantees of a fair trial, conditions of detention, including access to adequate medical treatment for detainees, and the general human rights situation in the country. Furthermore, at the United Nations Human Rights Council in March 2019, the European Union reiterated its general concern about the human rights situation in Bahrain, including the serious risks posed by the politicization of the judicial system and the importance of freedom of expression and association, as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to which Belgium, as a member State, had also subscribed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u76	Minister, in the newspaper De Morgen of 25 November there was a report of a lecture by the former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Theo Francken. On the website there are sound fragments in which Theo Francken admits that he was creative in returning illegals and that he will write all that in a book when the facts are aged. The fragments say that he cannot now say how they did it, otherwise he would get in trouble. On 29 November, Mr Francken explained in an interview in the same newspaper that he did not refer to illegal practices, but to agreements he had to make with the Foreign Office. Mr Francken's statements are, of course, astonishing: a secretary of state is not above the law. An investigation is therefore absolutely necessary. Initially it seemed that Mr Francken in his statements referred to agreements with the Foreign Affairs Office, but in the interview with De Morgen he explicitly mentioned the Foreign Affairs Office. Hence the following questions, Minister. What creative agreements were made at the time between the cabinet or the administration of Mr Francken and Foreign Affairs? Do you know anything about that? Did you find any trace of it? Were there any illegal practices or any traces of illegal practices? Do you intend to have the case investigated further? Finally, what role does the Foreign Office currently play in returning foreigners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u77	Mr De Vriendt, my answer will be very brief. My services have made no understanding of agreements between Mr Theo Francken and Foreign Affairs. Nor does my department play an active role in returning foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u78	It only makes the statements of the former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration more problematic. He tried to defend himself, but he made the statements he made, namely that he has committed facts that will later be years old. It was first about agreements with the Foreign Affairs Office. I interviewed the current minister, Maggie De Block, about this. She also replied in the same way as you. Then Mr Francken said that it was about agreements with Foreign Affairs. I am questioning you now, and you also say that you have had it looked at and that nothing has actually happened and that you do not in itself play any part in that procedure. It makes it clear that Mr Francken has done things that really cannot be done, and it is up to the people's representatives to investigate them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u79	Minister, I will be very brief. My question relates to the Colombian government's compliance with the peace agreement with the FARC. Does Belgium support, following particularly violent demonstrations and repression, the request for an impartial international investigation into these repressions? How does Belgium contribute to the great national conversation of President Iván Duque?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium supports the full implementation of the peace agreement and recognises the progress made in the reintegration of the FARC and the implementation of territorial development plans. Nevertheless, many challenges remain, such as rural reform and access to land, one of the root causes of the conflict, the absence of a State in conflict-affected areas, lack of access to public services, drugs and the protection of human rights defenders. Colombia stresses that it needs ten to fifteen years to meet these enormous challenges. It is therefore important that the international community continue to press the Colombian Government to implement the provisions of the agreement soon. Colombia is the subject of discussions in the United Nations Security Council every three months. To date, support for the peace process has always been unanimous in the Security Council. Full implementation of the agreement is essential for peace and stability in Colombia and the region. There is certainly room for improvement in police training. Colombia's anti-riot police, which should not normally intervene in cases of manifest violence, for example, intervened in a peaceful demonstration using weapons, although not lethal but which can, in spite of everything, cause serious injuries. Belgium is not aware of the organisation of an impartial international investigation into the repression of demonstrators. This, moreover, is not part of the claims of the latter. Our embassy in Bogota is closely following the progress of the national conversation set up by the government, following demonstrations and strikes. It is important to note that not only the classical trade union and student organizations have demonstrated, but also the middle classes. It is in fact a very heterogeneous coalition of citizens with a wide range of requirements such as social measures, a programme to combat corruption, environmental measures and the implementation of the peace agreement. The government structured this national conversation around six themes: inclusive growth, transparency and the fight against drugs, education, peace with equality, the environment and institutional strengthening. National conversations on these six themes will continue until March 15. The national committee that organises strikes and demonstrations, however, wants a direct dialogue with the president. The majority opposition in Parliament has already approached this national committee. After that, a letter was sent to the President with concrete proposals: a direct dialogue with each sector to address these specific concerns, the full implementation of the peace agreement, the possibility of resumption of dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u81	I share your concern about the human rights situation in Tibet. My services continue to keep a close eye on its evolution. Belgium does not hesitate to express its concerns in this regard in various relevant fora. In our bilateral relations with China, this issue is regularly addressed at various meetings. This was particularly the case during a bilateral meeting with my services and the Vice-President of the Tibet Autonomous Region, which took place on December 13, 2019. Our country also intervened in the universal periodic review of China in November 2018. It is a specific mechanism of the United Nations Human Rights Council in which each country is subject to in-depth review. On this occasion, the various Member States address questions and recommendations concerning the human rights situation in the country under review. In this regard, Belgium asked about China's intentions to address the concerns expressed by the United Nations regarding the treatment of ethnic minorities in Tibet, in particular by the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination (CERD), which ensures compliance with the provisions of the international treaty on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. Together with other countries, Belgium supported a joint statement to both the Human Rights Council and the UN General Assembly calling on China to implement the recommendations of the CERD Committee. Moreover, human rights are one of the most important pillars in relations between the European Union and China. In this context, the situation of Tibetans and other minorities is being actively addressed with the Chinese authorities. The situation concerning ethnic and religious minorities is discussed at the annual Europe-China dialogue on human rights. This theme is also addressed during the sessions of the United Nations Human Rights Council. Concerning the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama as a religious leader and on the basis of the principle of freedom of religion, it is logical for the Tibetan religious community to designate its successor without interference from the temporal authorities. In conclusion, I can assure you that the human rights situation in Tibet is an issue that we will continue to follow actively. In this regard, Belgium will continue to contribute constructively to the position coordinated by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u82	Minister, thank you for your clear answers on freedom of religion, in this case for Tibetan worship.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u83	Minister, as an open economy, we in Belgium are heavily dependent on our exports. Belgium and especially Flanders have a strong export reputation. International trade therefore offers enormous economic added value for our country. To this end, a free trade agreement with Peru and Colombia was concluded in 2012. This has been in operation since 2013. This agreement had to be signed by both the EU and the Member States. In Belgium, this had to be signed by the regional parliaments. We are now seven years later, but this agreement with Peru and Colombia has still not been signed in Belgium, which means that we cannot enjoy the benefits of the free trade that that agreement brings. We are, by the way, the only country that has not yet done so. There is another trade agreement. The EU concluded an agreement with Mercosur in June. We heard yesterday that the Walloon Parliament refused to sign that agreement for bizarre reasons. There are serious doubts about this. It is in the interests of our economy to sign this agreement as soon as possible. Commission President Juncker called this the EU's largest trade agreement ever concluded. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, what is the state of play in the signing of the trade agreement with Peru and Colombia? Why wasn't this signed yet? Secondly, when was the last time that the non-signature was raised within the Consultation Committee and what was the conclusion? Thirdly, in recent months the government has been called upon within the Union about the fact that we have not yet signed it, or by the countries themselves, Peru or Columbia, on the one hand, or the Mercosur countries, on the other? If so, what was our country's message to these countries? Fourthly, how do you estimate the consequences of the failure to sign the agreements? Fifthly, what position will the government take on the EU-Mercosur trade agreement? How does the intra-Belgian consultation proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u84	Mr Minister, I wish once again to address with you the question of the free trade agreement concluded between the European Union and the Mercosur countries on 28 June. This agreement continues to raise questions and does not address the many concerns, particularly among farmers. The environment has even tended to increase questions. Thus, some wonder whether the tense relations between Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and his Argentinian counterpart Alberto Fernández, who recently came to power in Buenos Aires, will not eventually weigh on the text. On the basis of these developments, what is the status of the process within the European Union around this free trade agreement? Secondly, what position will Belgium defend in the European Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u85	Minister, I would like to add that such an agreement is likely to increase the inequalities between skilled and unskilled workers, as well as generate conflict among Aboriginal peoples. Questions arise about the territory and natural resources of Latin America. On the other hand, the increase in imports would affect products such as cereals, rice, vegetables, beef and sugar. For these reasons, in particular, the Walloon government has taken a clear position in refusing the trade agreement with Mercosur. So to what extent is the political agreement announced by the European Union on 28 June still amendable? Can Member States still make changes to the agreement or should they accept or reject it as a whole? Furthermore, the agreement with Mercosur should generate a CO2 volume comparable to that of a city such as Brussels. Nevertheless, EU Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan said in December that the agreement with Mercosur contributed to the objectives of the Green Pact. What guarantees does this chapter offer to a country such as Brazil, which has demonstrated itself at the Madrid COP by describing an ambitious agreement? How could this chapter on environmental guarantees compensate for the cost of intercontinental trade which, of course, would be increased? Finally, many other European states, such as France, Austria and Ireland, pose the same threats to farmers, both European and South American, as the Walloon government this week. I therefore naturally wonder what position the federal government will take on this agreement with Mercosur as it currently exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u86	Colleagues, negotiations for an Association Agreement between the European Union and Mercosur have been under way since 1999. The negotiations of the political and cooperation parties have yet to be finalized. On 28 June 2019, the European Commission reached an agreement in principle on the trade vacuum of this Association Agreement. The texts and lists of commitments, such as market access for goods, have yet to be finalised and translated before the European Member States have to give their consent by the end of 2020. The absence of the Mercosur agreement is therefore not an issue. Although the potential impact of this agreement on European GDP in percentages may seem limited, this agreement is important in relative terms, given the scale of the European bloc in strategic terms at global level, but also in normative and cooperation terms. This agreement is intended to facilitate trade, increase predictability for economic actors and discipline market access procedures and modalities, in addition to reducing tariffs. European exports will increase in Mercosur. Mercosur exports are also expected to increase according to the law of supply and demand. Products from Mercosur countries must meet European requirements and our access standards. With this agreement, the Mercosur countries also undertake to respect many international standards, including respect for the social rights of workers, provided for in the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation, or the commitments of the Paris Agreement on climate change. In the event of non-compliance with these international commitments by one of the parties to the agreement, a dispute settlement mechanism may be activated. Belgium is currently analysing the content of the agreement and its possible impact, so that we can defend the final Belgian position in the Council. The FPS Economy is preparing an economic impact analysis by early 2020. I opened the conference on the trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur on 6 December 2019. The conference discussed in an open manner several sensitive elements of the agreement, such as the impact on our agricultural sector or the commitments in the climate agreement. Thus, the calculation of the climate or environmental impact of the agreement is still the subject of extensive analysis. One question referred to a study commissioned by the commission to an outside consultant, the London School of Economics. An interim report was recently published. This impact assessment is based on more ambitious scenarios than the final outcome of the negotiations, in particular the agricultural aspects. We are therefore very attentive to the elements related to sustainable development. The Belgian position, which is regularly coordinated during the negotiations between the competent administrations and ministers, will be finalised in order to take account of the opportunities and potential impacts of this agreement. We have indeed heard the debate in the Walloon Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but you have not answered some of my questions. So you did not say anything about the agreement with Peru and Colombia. Furthermore, I would like to point out that you do not believe that the absence of the Mercosur agreement is a matter for discussion. I therefore assume that at Belgian level you will argue in favour of signing and ratifying that agreement. I did not understand correctly when the impact assessment that is currently under way would be ready. It's supposed to be somewhere by 2020, but I haven't heard in what month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u88	Mr Minister, of course, yes, Belgium is an open economy. That said, no, we can no longer afford to be naive. The time of the wonderful and enchanting tale of free trade is over. The organization of economic exchanges with other parts of the world must be rethought and rebuilt on other bases. Civil society keeps repeating this. The Walloon government also recalled this week. The agreement with Mercosur represents an environmental absurdity, which contradicts the objectives and means of the European Green Deal. Among these means, I am thinking of this wonderful idea of carbon adjustment at borders. I do not see how we will be able to introduce it while lifting customs duties with the Mercosur countries. Moreover, it promotes the organisation of unfair competition and the potential violence against entire parts of our economy – the agreement provides for the import of 99 000 tonnes of beef into our country – not to mention an imbalance in standards. This is a frontal and brutal competition with our agriculture. That is why we will remain very vigilant about the reaction of the federal government, which must firmly oppose this agreement, which I believe is an anachronistic and a form of monstrosity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ben Achour. I would add that this agreement is completely destructive for our economy, especially for our agriculture. We have received representatives of the indigenous peoples in this Commission, who were particularly affected by Mercosur's policies. We met with indigenous peoples who were suffering the impact of President Bolsonaro's policies in Brazil. We have seen how President Bolsonaro reacts to trade union struggles and civil society struggles, especially on all LGBT issues, but also on those of indigenous peoples in the Amazon. For me, it is completely aberrant and even impossible to imagine such an agreement on free trade without having certain guarantees as to respect for the most minimum rights of trade unions, respect for social and economic rights and, of course, the rights of indigenous peoples in Latin America. I also recall the risks that are being demonstrated today as being far too important for our economy in Europe, and in Belgium in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u90	Minister, how does Belgium stand on the partnership announced by the new High Representative for European Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, to really make Africa one of the priorities for 2020? What are the different phases of developing this plan? I would like to take this opportunity to return with you to the opening of the consulate in the DRC, which would have been postponed. What benchmarks will be put in place to effectively combat human rights violations, violence and corruption in this partner country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u91	Mr Cogolati, in an interview given by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs Josep Borrell, we learn that the European Union intends to make its relations with Africa a priority for 2020. In this context, the European Union announces the establishment of a privileged partnership with the Congo, built on mutually agreed commitments with the Congolese authorities and civil society. Although there have been a number of positive changes since Felix Tshisekedi came to power with regard to the release of detainees, the end of the ban on demonstrations, political rallies and the authorization for the return of opposition leaders in exile, it must be noted that the country continues to face persistent violations of fundamental human rights. It seems to me that you are referring to the conclusions of the DRC Council which were adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council on 9 December 2019. It is therefore not a new partnership agreement itself. The Council's conclusions are drawn up in various Council working groups before being approved by the Permanent Representatives Committee and subsequently by the Council. The work is carried out in particular on the basis of information gathered by the various European diplomatic posts and by the European delegation on the spot from their various interlocutors. For these conclusions, which are a collective exercise, the European Union affirms that it intends to remain a privileged partner and interlocutor of the DRC and recalls that it has never ceased to support the Congolese people. An open and frank political dialogue with the Congolese authorities, as well as with representatives of civil society and political actors, will help to define in a concerted manner the reciprocal commitments that will guide its action in support of reform programmes. It is on this basis that the European Union can engage constructively in the DRC. It will regularly assess the evolution of this partnership. You are aware that the visit of Congolese President Félix Tshisekedi to Brussels in September 2019 marked a positive shift in our bilateral diplomatic relations. The signing of a series of MoUs (Memorandum of Understanding) on this occasion demonstrates our two countries' willingness to strengthen their diplomatic relations and confirms the revitalisation of the close relationship between the DRC and Belgium in the context of a reciprocal partnership with growth and sustainable development, which I welcome. Belgium therefore enthusiastically welcomes the latest conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council on the DRC, which lay the foundations for a constructive but realistic re-engagement of the European Union in the DRC. They take into account the new political context – imperfect, yet hopeful. The main message is quite clear: the European Union and its 28 Member States are ready to accompany the Democratic Republic of the Congo towards the changes desired by the Congolese people, particularly those included in President Tshisekedi's programme. In addition, the European Union and its Member States are prepared to support the implementation of reform programmes aimed at promoting stability and security, as well as good governance and the rule of law, in order to generate inclusive development and thereby improve the living conditions of Congolese people. Relations between the European Union and any State in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) Group take place within the framework of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement, on the basis of which the parties regularly maintain a comprehensive, balanced and in-depth political dialogue leading to mutual commitments. It's not the other way around with the DRC. It is in this context that initial contacts have been established with a view to assessing the appropriateness of organising a dialogue called "Article 8", which should, in particular, make it possible to assess the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. With regard to the important points that you raise, the European Union welcomes the first gestures of political descriptor and openness of the democratic space and encourages the Congolese authorities to continue their efforts while major challenges remain. The persistence of a high number of violations of human rights and international humanitarian law as well as of violence, including sexual violence, requires an adequate judicial response. In particular, the European Union calls on the Congolese authorities to redouble their efforts to combat impunity in order to bring to justice those responsible for serious human rights violations. The European Union also states that it will support the efforts of the Congolese authorities to promote peace, security and the return of the rule of law throughout the country, stressing the need for genuine approval of the reforms. It also welcomed the work of the Joint United Nations Office for Human Rights, which was an essential actor in their defence. It encourages the Congolese authorities to fulfil their commitments to national recovery by taking all measures to ensure the equal participation of women, including survivors of victims of sexual violence and internally displaced persons, in efforts to maintain and promote peace and security. It also encourages the Congolese authorities to strengthen the prevention of conflict-related sexual violence. The reform and strengthening of democratic institutions remains more relevant than ever and responds – as we have seen in recent years – to an unequivocal wish expressed by the Congolese people. The action of the European Union will a priori be in line with the above elements. The latter will be used effectively to mark the work of the European Union, particularly in the areas of diplomacy and development cooperation. European sanctions have, moreover, been renewed for those who have committed human rights violations. In conclusion, I can reassure you that the situation continues to be closely monitored and assessed regularly at both Belgian and European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u92	Minister, every year, unfortunately, dozens of mommies or daddies kidnap their children or children abroad, usually to the parent's country of origin in question. I have the following questions. How many files were there in 2018? What was the trend in 2019? Was there an increase or a decrease? How many files were resolved by mutual consent between both parents? In how many cases was a court decision taken to bring the child or children back to Belgium? What's the average duration of that? How many files are still pending? What steps can the parent who is left powerless take himself? With regard to the pending dossiers, which countries are having difficulty following a final judicial procedure on the repatriation of the child to the parent in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u93	Colleague, the number of files that fall under the exclusive competence of the Foreign Office and were dealt with by my department in 2018 amounts to 68. These dossiers concern child abductions of children of Belgian nationality to a country to which the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abductions does not apply. Child abductions to a State which is a party to the Hague Convention fall within the competence of the FPS Justice, which has been designated as a central authority and is responsible for requesting the return of those children to their habitual residence, in application of the said Convention. The figures for 2019 are not final yet, but I can already tell you that my department has handled about 75 files in an exclusive way. In 2018, 21 files were closed that Foreign Affairs handled exclusively and outside the Convention. The reasons for closing these cases, which are therefore dealt with outside the framework of the Convention, are by definition variable, but are rarely the result of a legal decision. It is therefore not a decision to return under the 1980 Convention, but rarely also a decision to return, issued by the court in the countries of refuge of the child. In fact, we find that in most cases the parent-abductor gets a positive decision in the country where he takes the child, while the parent who stayed in Belgium received a decision in his favour. These two generally contradictory decisions do not apply in the other country. That is why we prefer an amicable settlement in these disputes, either thanks to the consular assistance provided by our posts on the spot in consultation with the Belgian partners concerned, or by organising an international family mediation. At the moment there are 75 outstanding files outside the Convention at my department. If the kidnapping takes place to a country where the 1980 Hague Convention is applicable, an application for return may be submitted to the FPS Justice. If this is not the case, the person concerned may request assistance from the Foreign Office, which, by definition, does not have any binding legal means to enforce the child's return to Belgium in the absence of an international convention. The decisions to return, delivered in the context of the Hague procedure, fall within the competence of the FPS Justice. Since Foreign Affairs interventions are carried out in the context of consular assistance or through international family mediation, the return or other friendly arrangements are generally carried out by parents on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is very important that these parents are informed as well as possible because they often feel powerless and have to wait endlessly for a solution. Of course, that is also very difficult for the child because some files drag on for years, which also ensures that a real distance between the child and the parent grows. I therefore hope that the pending dossiers will be dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic091x.u95	Thank you for your time, Minister. We'll close our work here.
