ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u1	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55006987C and 55007384C by Mr Donné were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u2	Minister, as you know, I am the gender issues in Parliament in a cross-cutting way. When the Europol report was released, one element caught my attention. Europol points to the link between extreme right-wing ideologies and misogynist and anti-feminist theories. While not all right-wing extremists are anti-feminist, these ideologies, said the report, "are united in the rejection of diversity and minority rights", according to Europol, and bear "an unequal vision by nature" of society, according to Benjamin Biard, a researcher at CRISP. For example, extremist antifeminism is included in the "theories of great replacement". "Feminism would have been invented to distract women from their 'natural' role as mothers and is, therefore, blamed for the fall in birth rates in the countries of Western Europe, which ultimately allowed immigration," stresses Europol's report. Another movement that may be close to these theories is that of the "Incels", the "involuntary singles", who consider themselves unjustly rejected by the female Gentleman. Women who would have been given a little too much rights and lost sight of their "first-role." The emblematic figure of this movement is Elliot Rodger who killed six people in California before dying at the age of 22. Minister, do you have any information on the extent of these movements in our country? Are police services informed and made aware of the danger of such movements and ideologies? Does the State Security Service carry out any specific work with regard to these groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u3	The ideas about involuntary singles (Incels) and the interlacing of this misogyny or anti-feminist ideology with online right-wing extremism are known to the actors of the security chain. With regard to Incels (involuntary single persons), the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) currently has no indication that a concrete extremist terrorist threat would emanate from this ideology in Belgium. OCAM continuously monitors the situation and the threat from the right-wing or left-wing extremism movement. In order to gain a better understanding of the phenomenon, OCAM is working on several analyses aimed at raising awareness among police and other services. The phenomenon of Incels and, more generally, the role of gender in the ideologies of extremism – on the left and on the right – are part of these analyses. Within the police, field units were sensitized by the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organized Crime (DJSOC) and Terro, the Central Terrorism Unit of the Federal Judicial Police. This service ensures – as with other ideologies, such as terrorism and violent extremism – active monitoring at the police level and, as a partner in the R plan, the multidisciplinary structure of the fight against radicalism and terrorism. Finally, your last question is not a matter for me, but for my colleague, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u4	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I will also ask the Minister of Justice about this issue, which is emerging in our country and which will therefore have to be closely monitored. I'm sure I'll be back to interview you in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u5	Mr President, Minister, on Sunday 28 June this year there was a demonstration in Brussels against the annexation of Palestinian territories, in which about 500 people took part. The demonstrators called for a boycott of Israel and international sanctions against the country. During this gathering, a particularly violent song could be heard and was filmed and broadcast on social networks. One can hear a phrase that can be translated as: "Khaybar, Khaybar, O Jews, Muhammad's army will return." This slogan is a reference to the battle of Khaybar, which took place in the seventh century and in which many Jews were massacred. Minister, these songs are no more or less than calls for murder against the Jewish population. As a reminder, similar events led to a criminal conviction in Antwerp in 2014. You will agree that such calls to hatred cannot have their place in the streets of the European capital. They must not only be denounced, but also and above all punished. Mr Minister, my questions are, therefore, of two kinds. First of all, did you have any feedback on these songs heard during this demonstration? According to your information, did any arrests take place on that occasion? Then, more generally, how do you assess the phenomenon of hate speech at such a demonstration? It is not uncommon to hear such songs. Do you think their perpetrators are sufficiently prosecuted? Do you consider that measures should be taken to ensure that perpetrators of such crimes are arrested and prosecuted more systematically?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u6	Minister, Mr De Maegd just quoted it here, a few weeks ago there was a pro-Palestinian manifestation in Brussels, which unfortunately quickly degenerate by chanting anti-Semitic slogans. Have you taken note of the facts through the police themselves? Can you confirm or deny that police reports have been filed? After all, the Mayor of Brussels, Mr Close, has declared that the police forces have started an investigation. Do you know anything about the unsubs? Have they been identified or possibly arrested? What legal possibilities will there be in the future, or specifically today, to appeal to organisers themselves on the facts or to force them to cooperate in the detection of the perpetrators? Was the manifestation itself allowed at all? If yes, by which authority and by which organization was she admitted? Do you think it is appropriate that the anti-racism association Unia should file a bourgeois-party complaint before the facts? I ask that question because Unia in the past felt that such songs would not be punishable. That the judge convicted the offender in 2014 after a similar fact, Unia called crooked speech instead of justice, a very regrettable moment. What is your opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen De Maegd and Freilich, an investigation has been carried out to identify the members of the group of extremists who sang these songs. Four people have already been formally identified and four are in the process of being identified. The results of the investigation were forwarded to the Crown Prosecutor's Office, which is now seized of the case. The demonstration was, to the best of my knowledge, properly requested and authorized by the mayor. The organizer was known by our services as a reliable partner. Protests whose message is hateful or inciting to violence are systematically prohibited. Each candidate organiser is also informed of this. The group that chanted the slogans was not part of the organization and escaped control of it. When the judicial investigation is completed, the organizer will be consulted on the facts and will be informed of his responsibility. Following the COVID-19 epidemic, accelerated work has been done on a general digital reception via police-on-web. It is therefore possible for some time to report such crimes by digital means. In addition, the College of Attorneys-General has stressed that for serious crimes, the principal of the digital complaint should be contacted personally in the short term. The evaluation of the temporary COVID-19 digital window will take place in September 2020, so this year. On the basis of data on use and possible obstacles, improvements and proposals will be offered to the College of Attorneys General in consultation with the Permanent Commission of Local Police. This will be done on the basis of the use by citizens during the first four months following the launch of the COVID-19 comprehensive point of contact and the already existing point of contact for a number of crimes and on the basis of the experience of local police forces in processing these declarations. Finally, I absolutely reject the messages that were brought during the manifestation. I totally disapprove of the messages and songs that have been scanned. This is an unacceptable act. In the future, I will ensure that this is avoided and, if necessary, that such acts are prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. I sincerely believe that anti-Semitism is one of the forms of racism that gangstifies our society. I hear that an investigation is being carried out, that four people have been identified and that four others are in the process of being identified, according to your information. In my view, it is an absolute necessity. No racist appeal to murder or hatred can be tolerated in our country and, specifically, in Brussels, the capital of Europe. Everyone can of course challenge Israel's settlement policy. It is a fact, but it cannot go through the import of this conflict in our country, nor through this kind of call to hatred. Minister, I encourage you to advocate zero tolerance in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u9	Minister, I agree with what Mr De Maegd said. There is no place for anti-Semitism in the capital of Europe or in this country. I am pleased that you are taking decisive and effective measures to address the problem. I am also pleased to hear that the police have already identified four people. I am also pleased to hear that there is a possibility of using police-on-web for the declaration of such cases. However, may I ask for a very brief clarification? You mentioned a temporary digital counter. Do I understand correctly that reporting anti-Semitism via police-on-web is a temporary measure, which will be reviewed in September 2020 or a measure that has been adopted for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u10	Mr Freilich, (...) the times in which we live with COVID-19, use that medicine. It is clear, however, that all channels for submitting complaints about anti-Semitism can also be used in post-corona times, either physically or in writing or via that point of contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u11	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately it is beginning to become an annual custom for me to question you on this matter. Your predecessors can also talk about this. Should the Deputy Governor's annual language report ever go in a positive direction, it may not be necessary anymore. However, the new figures published by the vice-governor in his 2019 language report show that it is only getting worse dramatically. The enforcement of language legislation in the recruitment of staff to the Brussels municipalities and OCMWs is still deteriorating, which is a great achievement. Let me give you some figures. In the Brussels municipalities, only 15.4% of the contractual recruitments were in line with the Staff Language Act, and in the OCMWs this year it was only 4.7 %. If we continue at this pace, next year almost 0 % will be okay. As you know, the Deputy Governor may suspend the appointment of a non-bilingual official. He did that a record number last year, more specifically 1,829 times. However, these suspensions are only temporary and, like last year, the Brussels guardianship body has not destroyed any recruitment. Not only the appointments are illegal, but also the required parity for the distribution of higher relations, however imposed by law, is falling again. In the municipalities only 29.6 % of the jobs are occupied by Dutch speakers and in the OCMW's barely 19.7 %, in both cases a further decline again, in the case of the OCMW's again a drastic decline. For lower relationships, at least 25% of the jobs must go to both language groups. In practice, in the municipalities last year only 12.3% of the jobs went to Flemings and even in the OCMW's with difficulty 5.1 %. Like all previous years, the language law in administrative matters is therefore violated massively by the Brussels local authorities. Minister, there are no excuses for that. I am sure you already know, but I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the language law in administrative matters has been democratically approved by Parliament. It is also a law of public order and therefore cannot be departed from. The Council of State has also repeatedly stated that such illegal appointments cannot be made and that the power of destruction is not optional but a mandatory one. According to the Council of State, continuity of service is not a valid argument for abandoning it. We have a recent opinion from the Council of State on a bill on this matter from me. It confirmed that as Minister for the Interior, you are competent to withdraw supervision from the Brussels authorities by setting up specific administrative supervision on the application of the language law in administrative matters in Brussels. This could, for example, be done, as we also stated in our proposal, by granting the Vice-Governor of Brussels, in addition to the power of suspension, the power of destruction. Minister, are you going to take an initiative to introduce such specific administrative supervision, apart from the Brussels guardians who have been refusing to do so for years? Will you, if necessary, take another initiative to put an end to these illegal and self-incivious situations in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Pas, you used an adjective that was no longer used in the Chamber for a long time, the incivian thing. Following the report of the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district on the application of language legislation, I would like to ask a two-fold question. As for your request to grant the Deputy Governor the power to destroy the decisions of the local authorities of the Brussels-Capital administrative district, if these decisions violate the laws and regulations governing the use of language in administrative matters, I must refer to the opinion I delivered on the bill of 8 July 2019 of which you know the document. Referring to the passus of the Vice-Governor Jozef Ostyn in the report of the hearing of 19 February last year, I said that, I quote: "a well-functioning supervision and effective sanctioning of infringements are certainly an essential part of the administrative language law, but that the essence of that law, specifically with regard to the bilingual area of Brussels-Capital, is necessary to achieve a correct bilingual public service and a quality service to the citizen in his or her language." Monitoring is an instrument for this purpose and is not an end in itself. The basic responsibility for achieving the above-mentioned essence of the law in practice lies, of course, with the Brussels local authorities and with them themselves. Regardless of the specific supervision regime in the Staff Act, the essential custody of these local authorities remains a regional responsibility. At the same time, a number of essential conditions must be met. Education, which is the responsibility of the Communities, must ensure that sufficient people master the second language of the country. The regional employment services must assist jobseekers in fulfilling the legal conditions to complete a government relationship. The federal government must ensure that the language certificates required by law can be issued. I must point out, however, that the government is currently unable to take any initiative to extend the specific administrative supervision of the Deputy Governor. On your second question, I must say once again that it is not up to the federal government to supervise the administrative language law. This power lies with the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region. The commitment in my reply to your question of 13 August last year to ask the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision to send a circular letter to the local authorities of 19 municipalities of the bilingual region of Brussels Capital, recalling the rules governing the language and language skills of staff with examples from the case law, was honoured by letter dated 16 December 2019. In other words, this has been followed up. Given the timing, the content of the circular is not yet reflected in the results of the 2019 year of operation, but the announcements made in my previous reply were realised in that area. I will also see to it that they are implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u13	Thank you for your reply, Minister. In the meantime, you did what you promised last year. You have already gone further in this area than your predecessor, whom I have been interpreting on several occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u14	You know who your friends are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u15	You say that the supervision lies with Brussels itself. However, it has been necessary to establish a manifest unwillingness in its application for decades. I fear that if we wait another year for the next report from the vice-governor, a letter will bring little progress. I fear that the figures will be even more drastic. In my view, the only solution is to remove the power of destruction from the Brussels authorities, which deliberately forsake it. You say that this government cannot take any initiative, given the particular constellation. I would therefore like to respond to a motion of recommendation. If Parliament supports you in this, you can take that initiative. In any case, I have made an attempt with the legislative proposal for which you have also given a positive opinion, but which, unfortunately, was voted away by your party in this committee. I can only hope that the motion of recommendation will be followed up and that, after the vote on the motion in the next plenary session, you will indeed be empowered to take the initiatives you cannot take today, as you have been able to do with your previous announcements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u16	We shall table a simple motion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u17	Since the same party is already coming with a simple motion to move on to the order of the day, I would like to suggest, Minister, that this point should also be taken as a breaking point to the government negotiations, as well as your breaking point on the single police zone, for which there is also a manifest reluctance on the French-speaking side.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u18	A lot has been taken away in the last few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u19	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, responsible for Foreign Trade, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, in particular Article 21; - having regard to the report of the Deputy Governor of the Administrative Arrondissement of Brussels-Capital for the year 2019; - considering that in 2017 70% of recruitments by Brussels municipalities were in breach of the language law in administrative matters; - whereas in the same year 89.2% of the recruitments by the Brussels OCMWFs were in breach of the language law in administrative matters; - whereas the Brussels custody authorities have not destroyed any of the illegal appointments, although the powers of destruction conferred on them by the settled case law of the Council of State have not been given an optional but an obligation; - having regard to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring (No. 49.126/I/PN of 24 May 2017) and the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State (No. 62.235/AV, Chamber of Representatives, section 54-3399/003), which confirms that the federal government has competence in the area of language law in Brussels-Capital, and that it is also fully competent to withdraw its administrative supervision, which currently rests with the Brussels authorities, by creating special administrative supervision; - whereas the latter can be done by entrusting the power of destruction to the Vice-Governor in future; asks the government take a short-term initiative in this area by removing the power of destruction of illegal appointments in Brussels local authorities under the language law in administrative matters from the Brussels Government and from the Joint Community Commission, and entrusting it to the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district through the establishment of special administrative supervision." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister for Security and the Interior, responsible for external trade, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters and, in particular, Article 21; - having regard to the report of the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district for the year 2019; - Whereas in 2017, 70% of the recruitments by Brussels municipalities were contrary to the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas in the same year 89.2% of recruitments by Brussels CPAS were contrary to language legislation in administrative matters; Whereas the Brussels supervisory authorities have not annulled any of the unlawful appointments, although the power of annulment conferred upon them does not, according to the settled case-law of the Council of State, constitute an optional fact but an obligation; - Having regard to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control (No 49.126/I/PN of 24 May 2017) and the opinion of the Section for Legislation of the Council of State (No 62.235/AV/House of Representatives, Doc. 54-3399/003) which confirm that the federal authorities are competent in matters relating to language legislation in Brussels-Capital and that they also have the full competence to decide to exempt the administrative control of that legislation, which is currently the responsibility of the Brussels authorities, from those same bodies by creating for this purpose a special administrative control; - Whereas this latter measure can only be taken by entrusting the power of annulment to the Vice-Governor; asks the government to take an initiative in this regard in the short term by removing the power of annulment relating to illegal appointments in Brussels local administrations within the framework of the language legislation in administrative matters from the Brussels government and the collegiate body of the Joint Community Commission and entrusting it to the vice-governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district through the establishment of a special administrative control." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u20	Minister, it is my responsibility that some logistical problems caused by a lack of administrative staff hinder the proper functioning of the federal police. In recent weeks, some federal judicial police units have found themselves unable to refuel vehicles because they did not have gasoline cards. As a result, some police officers were forced to refuel with their own bank card and fill out a fee note for reimbursement. This logistical problem would be one of the consequences of the lack of administrative staff, but it is not the only one. Indeed, the office travels for missions abroad and other international letters rogatory is completely overburdened. However, in accordance with the rules of the European arrest warrant, the detainee must be repatriated within ten days. Due to the lack of staff, market research is sloppy to meet deadlines. Travel costs more and the state loses money. So my questions are as follows. Can you confirm that additional administrative staff will be hired? Have any steps been taken to prevent this from happening again? Can you tell me which police units have been confronted with these logistical problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u21	Mrs Dedonder, the commitment of the administrative and logistical staff, the CaLog, as you know, within the Federal Police, was disrupted by the health crisis but resumed today. In 2018, the federal police hired 329 CaLog staff and in 2019, this number rose to 373. In 2020, the current number is 111 civilian commitments to the federal police. The Federal Police Logistics Directorate has the capacity to manage fuel cards. While problems arise in the distribution of fuel cards within certain units, they have so far not been communicated to the logistics management, yet they are in a position to contribute to their resolution. With regard to the travel office for missions abroad and other international letters rogatory, one staff member did indeed leave that entity. His departure has since been compensated by the arrival of a new colleague on 1 July this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u22	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hear a new recruitment took place on 1 July. I welcome this and invite you to continue to do so with regard to recruitment. I have cited a few examples; we know that the lack of staff is widespread and we must pay attention to them. The period of crisis has inevitably complicated things, but I think that now it is high time to worry about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u23	Questions Nos. 55007621C and 55007622C of Ms.Julie Song are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u24	Mr. Chair, Minister, I was asking you on May 26th to find out whether members of the integrated police could also benefit from the reimbursement of travel expenses with a private vehicle between home and workplace during the period VOCID-19. This question followed the adoption by your colleague, David Clarinval, of the Royal Order of April 22, 2020, which introduced specific measures for federal public service personnel in the context of the health crisis related to coronavirus. You acknowledged, in your response, that this royal order raised some expectations among police personnel, especially those who face the same problems as public service personnel, such as being commissioned on duty. Finally, you indicated that a legal analysis should be carried out to determine the extent to which the Royal Decree of 22 April is applicable to police personnel. In order to dispel any misunderstandings within the police services, it is important that they get a clear answer to my question. What is the result of the legal analysis? Can integrated police members also get reimbursement for their travel expenses with a private vehicle between home and workplace during the VOCID-19 period?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the reply I gave you in the Committee on the Interior on 26 May, I did indeed contact the legal services of the Federal Internal Public Service in order to determine whether the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020 is applicable to police personnel. My services informed me that they would provide me with an analysis on July 17. I am therefore not yet in a position to communicate the results to you. However, I can inform you that the Council of Mayors gave a negative opinion on this matter on 20 June. Although we are on a parliamentary holiday soon, I will not hesitate to inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I would like to be informed. I'm counting on you, but I know you'll provide me with the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the dismantling of the BR3 reactor is at an advanced stage, and the decommissioning work in the reactor annex is almost complete. His release is being prepared. In the reactor building, the radiological characterization of the biological concrete shield around the reactor pool has recently been completed, and the techniques for its dismantling have been selected. Previously, the parts of the primary cooling system and the coating of the reactor pool had already been removed. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) does not have a specific interim or interim report providing an overview of all the lessons learned and experiences gained in connection with the dismantling of the BR3 reactor. Such an overview should be included in the final dismantling report, which will be drawn up at the end of the report. During the decommissioning, the Nuclear Energy Study Centre (SCK-CEN) regularly shared progress and experiences with the nuclear sector through various publications and presentations at the national and international levels. The experiments carried out by SCK-CEN include project management, specific dismantling techniques and waste management. They have already been used in the dismantling of other nuclear installations in Belgium. In addition to the use of appropriate dismantling techniques, the experience of the SCK-CEN also highlights the importance of the disposal and treatment of the various radioactive waste streams. It is the responsibility of the operator of the nuclear power plants to draw up a decommissioning plan for ONDRAF as well as an application for decommissioning authorisation for AFCN, and to incorporate into it lessons learned from other projects such as the dismantling of the BR3 reactor, but also from other plants abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think it will indeed be interesting to be able to take stock of the lessons learned from the process of dismantling the BR3 reactor in order to apply them to the Doel and Tihange reactors. In my view, it is also important for AFCN and ONDRAF – which is not within your jurisdiction – to be able to impose dismantling methods and techniques independently of applications for authorisation from the nuclear operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u29	Question No 55007670C by Mrs Vanessa Matz is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the issue of seismic standards for nuclear safety. This point is indeed reflected in the latest amendments to the Royal Decree laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations last February. It is included in Article 21/1, point 3, as you know. Doel 1 and 2 were initially non-seismic. A first improvement of the design took place during its first ten-year revision, making it resistant to an earthquake of 0.058 grams, acceleration unit 1 g or equal to the acceleration of gravity on the Earth's surface. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) had already asked Electrabel to further increase the resistance to Doel 1 and 2 earthquakes in order to meet, at least partially, the requirements. A complementary action plan was drawn up following a simplified seismic study of the seismic measure assessment type for Doel 1 and 2. The material adaptations related to this action plan have been included in the Long Term Operation LTO Action Plan of Doel 1 and 2 which was completed this year. The construction of Doel 3 and 4 is dimensioned for an earthquake of 0.1 g i.e. 0.98 m/s2/m2, currently recommended minimum value for sites considered to be low seismic. Tihange 1 originally planned to deal with 0.1 g was finally upgraded to deal with the same earthquakes as the more recent Tihange 2 and 3 units, namely 0.017 g. The values mentioned are the values for the safe shutdown earthquake, i.e. associated with the earthquakes to be carried out in the design base and corresponding to the new requirements of the Royal Decree laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations. A deterministic study of facility maintenance was conducted at the design stage or during the first 10-year review for Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u31	Minister, thank you for your detailed and particularly technical response. We have already heard from AFCN and its Director General last week in the nuclear safety sub-committee. They told us that neither Doel 1 nor Doel 2 met the new seismic standards imposed by WENRA. This is where I think your political power can make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u32	It's related to gravity calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u33	That's right. Finally, we realize that Doel 1 and Doel 2 do not meet these latest standards. That is where I wonder what political action you are going to take to ask the nuclear operator to comply with these seismic standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u34	It's a very technical question. Mr President, I am not getting rid of it, but I propose to send a letter to the operator in order to obtain more information which will certainly be very technical. I will shortly provide you with the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u35	Minister, that's very kind of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u36	The DE building, which is a storage building for spent fuel assemblies at the Tihange site, consists of 8 swimming pools with a capacity of 465 fuel assemblies each today. This building is filled around 80 per cent. The DE building will eventually be dismantled but the actual date of dismantling is not yet known. In the coming decades, the DE building will be required, in order to remove spent fuel from the units, an important first step in the dismantling process, and in order to be able to carry out certain operations such as unloading or repairing storage containers necessary for the proper functioning of the new SF2 installation. The spent fuel must first be stored in the pools of the DE building for a sufficient period of time before it can be transferred to storage containers that could be stored in the SF2 facility. No packaging is stored in the DE building. At each periodic security review of the SF2 facility, the operator will also determine the remaining life of the ED building. Prior to the reception of the SF2 building and as part of the periodic security review of this facility, the operator will conduct an in-depth study that will demonstrate the feasibility of an alternative to the functions performed by the ED building and that are essential to the operation of the SF2 facility and will determine the time frame within which this alternative could be implemented. The DE building is actually bunkerized and is designed to deal with external accidents such as aircraft accidents. Information concerning the type of aeroplane used in the design is classified as confidential and cannot be disclosed. The exact thickness of this bunker is confidential and cannot be communicated. I refer to the Royal Decree of 17 October 2011. However, I would like to point out to you that similar questions and details concerning the resistance of other nuclear installations to the fall of aircraft could not be answered in the past for the same reasons of confidentiality. As I mentioned in my answer to your 2019 question, there are no leaks listed in the pools in the DE building.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I simply note that the details of the resistance to aircraft falls are indeed public with regard to the new building to be built, the SFX2. It is true that, unfortunately, they are classified as confidential for ED, when we are well aware of the safety limits of this spent nuclear fuel storage building.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u38	In your last answer, you indicated an inventory of 215 pencils, which had lost their watertightness. Has this figure changed? My question includes a number of more specific questions in order to better understand the problem of these "runaway" pencils.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u39	Mr Cogolati, there are 215 non-waterproof pencils for all Belgian reactors. The balance sheet dates from 2018. There has been no leaking problem for more than ten years in Doel and Tihange. There is no unsealed pencil in the pools of the DE building in Tihange. The decision not to transfer assembly containing non-ED-tight pencils is a practical regulation within the Tihange nuclear power plant. For the sake of clarity, it is important to note that the storage of these non-watertight pencils in reactor deactivation pools is carried out under safe conditions and that there is no risk of leakage or discharge into the environment. For the other questions, I refer to my many answers in particular, the answers to your questions nos. 55001675C and 55002109C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u40	Mr Minister, I remember those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u41	I remember my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u42	That's perfect! So for more than ten years, there has been no further flight. But it has also been more than ten years since these 215 unsealed pencils were repaired? Therefore, I do not understand very well when they are because, obviously, they will have to be watertight if, one day, we want to be able to store them safely and responsibly. When can we expect the repair of these non-waterproof pencils? You say it yourself: the problem is not new since there have been leaks for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u43	The question of sealing is essentially technical. I refer to my answer in the second line. I will inquire and provide you with an answer that I hope is not too technical for a very technical question, namely, the non-sealing of pencils.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u44	That's what I'm waiting for, because I realize that there are a number of leaks in Tihange (but also Doel) mainly in Tihange 1's deactivation pool. I know this problem has been going on for a long time. There is no new leak and that reassures me. However, action must be taken to address this long-standing problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u45	Mr.President, Mr.Cogolati, the siren network was shut down at the end of 2018. The central control has been removed and it is no longer possible to use sirens to alert the population or even to perform tests. Several sirens have already been physically removed by the staff of the National Crisis Centre. With regard to the other sirens or pylons still in place, a public procurement procedure is under way. A period of 18 months has been foreseen for the execution of the contract, so that the entire siren network should normally be physically withdrawn at the beginning of 2022. A resumption of sirens or re-use of the towers by interested parties was examined but was ultimately inconclusive from a legal point of view. As a result, this lead was not followed. The siren network has been replaced by a multi-channel alert technology platform, BE-Alert, you know. Authorities can test the BE-Alert system every first Thursday of the month. In addition, a simulation environment is also available to familiarize the user with the application without a message being actually sent. A national test will be organised on 1 October 2020 and all municipalities will be invited to participate by sending a test message that day. At the same time, they can encourage their inhabitants to register to receive such a message in case of a real alert. BE-Alert can be specifically activated by each mayor and governor autonomously. Through this local and direct alert approach, BE-Alert responds to the necessary activation speed and local knowledge of the field for optimal alerting of the population concerned. Finally, with regard to your other questions, I refer to my answers to Questions Nos 55005283C and 55006654C and to Written Question No 411.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u46	Minister, thank you. There had been a time to keep the sirens only for the nuclear alert in the vicinity of Doel and Tihange. So it's no longer relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u47	No. The same applies to many relief and support services, civil protection and firefighters. People are alerted but they are no longer alerted by sirens. They normally rang on the first Thursday of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u48	Indeed, I used to receive the alert every first Thursday of the month at 1:00 p.m. So this is no longer the case. Personally and for living in the vicinity of a Class 1 nuclear facility, I am concerned that people will not receive BE-Alert text messages when their phones are switched off, for example in the middle of the night. Now a SEVESO siren, we hear it and she can alert us. Although this system has shown its limitations in recent years and has proven to be too costly for your department, it seems to me that these sirens have a certain safety function and I am merely noting that this safety and alert function cannot be effectively replaced by SMS messages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u49	Mr. Chair, Minister, the MEGA program helps raise awareness among schooled youth of several dangers they may face. These actions carried out by our police services certainly encourage young people not to give in to the temptation to consume products that are dangerous to their health. It is also used to explain and reduce the risk of violence among young people, particularly within and outside schools. In view of the violence against police officers and the growing lack of respect for those holding public authority, this programme can also prove useful in raising awareness, emerging from prejudice and engaging in a positive and structural relationship between our law enforcement agencies and these future adults. Minister, is this program intended exclusively for sixth-grade students or can it be done with students from other school years? How many hours of awareness does it involve and how many police officers does it require? What is, on average, the budget allocated to this programme within the police areas? Do they receive support from the federal government for this purpose? How many local police areas have carried out this awareness and prevention module over the past three years? Are there any plans to explain the violence against our police officers? It is a good program, which combines citizenship, police service and respect for public authority. As part of the measures to support our police officers in the face of the growing lack of respect for and violence against their work, do you consider it necessary to strengthen and extend this programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, the MEGA training ("My commitment to ensuring the future") is an awareness-raising and prevention project that encourages young people to be able to say no to any form of violence and to any temptation to consume products that are dangerous to their health. Inspired by an American programme called DARE, aimed at preventing drug use among young people, the project consists of ten fifty-minute modules, mainly provided to sixth-grade students by trained police officers, teachers or members of PMS centres. This programme targets the topics of legal and illegal drug use (tobacco, alcohol and medicines), but also topics such as self-assertion and self-esteem, aggression, social pressure, stress, racketism and social networks. Police training takes place in police schools. It lasts 40 hours and consists of several modules: public speaking, vision of pedagogy, information on drugs, etc. The price varies from one police school to another – about 250 euros per person. This training is the responsibility of the police areas. In addition to the personnel trained, the area must release two or three collaborators to provide the ten lessons in the schools located in its territory participating in the project. To do so, the areas do not have any federal funding or support. The cost of training and the lack of staff capacity explain why many areas do not invest more or less in this project. In addition, some schools are not of particular interest to the project and some collaborations have ceased over time. Other areas have sometimes invested in other projects or forms of partnership with schools. In the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, some 30 police areas are participating in the MEGA project. The number of schools and students affected varies from one area to another.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u51	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I will certainly come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u52	Minister, I have already asked you about the plans for potential reconstitution in the event of a strong resurgence of coronavirus. It was at the end of May. On July 1st, Yves Van Laethem, inter-federal spokesperson, presented details of possible measures and plans for reconstitution in the press. In particular, he said: "What we can say is that we have to expect all of a sudden a series of localized measures for a number of things, such as making the wearing of the mask compulsory in the shops, in the areas in question and possibly prohibiting general rallies or demonstrations. These are things that were seen in Beijing in some quarters before it was extended to the city. In these localized areas, cafes and restaurants would close or close earlier. A working group is working on this and a report will be published in the course of July." You will understand, Mr Minister, that when we read this information, which is of course very interesting, the heads of cities and municipalities want to be able to prepare themselves as best they can, precisely to frame future measures, to be able to communicate them within a reasonable time and to be able to accompany at best the actors on the ground, the companies, the whole population of an entity that can be affected by these measures. At the same time, we must note that the debunking associated with the reduction of the spread of coronavirus has led to a sharp reduction in compliance with the actions and recommendations of the National Security Council. Today's requirement to wear masks in a variety of places will undoubtedly improve the situation positively. Can you recall what the legal framework currently allows local and municipal officials to take sanitary and containment measures? In this regard, what are the limits in this regard in the light of the Ministerial Order of 30 June? When will the working group publish its report? According to what procedure and within what time frame will be communicated to the local authorities the new measures to be taken? Will there be degrees in the guidelines? Will they be binding or proposed to local authorities? Will a mayor be able to make the wearing of the mask mandatory in public space and/or shops? What specific support (administrative, logistical and security) can be used to accompany the target communities? Finally, what is the governor's role in his support of the mayors who solicit him when they suspect a difficulty? Does he have a role of mediator or could the governor make an order for several communes concerned in order to ensure compliance with the instructions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u53	Mrs. Taquin, I will try to answer all your questions. By the Ministerial Order of 13 March 2020 triggering the federal phase, concerning the coordination of the crisis management of the VOCID-19 coronavirus, the federal phase of the emergency plan was announced. This phase implies, on the one hand, coordination and crisis management at the federal level and, on the other hand, that measures taken to limit the spread of the virus must be applied in a uniform and coherent manner throughout the territory. Article 28, § 2, of the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 on emergency planning and emergency management at the municipal and provincial level and on the role of the mayors and provincial governors in the event of events and crisis situations requiring coordination and management at the national level, provides that, in a federal phase, the government or governments concerned, together with the mayor or mayors concerned, shall support the strategic coordination of the federal level in the territory by implementing the decisions of the federal authority and by taking additional decisions which are necessary in consultation with the federal authority. I recall, and in a letter I sent to the Governors on 15 May of this year, that the objective is in no way for local governments to relax or even tighten up the measures decided by the Enlarged National Security Council, currently contained in the ministerial decree of 30 June on emergency measures to limit the spread of the virus, in the exceptional case where a specific local situation would, according to the local authority, require a particular divergent approach to the Corona measures. As far as individual containment measures are concerned, the role and competence of the mayors vary according to the specific regulations of the federated entities in the field of health prevention. The National Crisis Centre is not involved in the working group you mentioned. In principle, the philosophy of the federal phase precludes a commune from making it compulsory to wear masks in situations where this is not provided for in the ministerial decree. However, if it wishes to do so, it will have to justify its decision on a material level in specific local circumstances. As part of the federal phase, it is formally required that the municipality consult with the Minister of the Interior through the governor before adopting such a measure. The National Crisis Centre has begun an exercise with the relevant administrations and services to prepare a multidisciplinary response to a local outbreak. This exercise, which is still ongoing, aims in particular to clarify the flow of information, the threshold from which management by local administrative authorities is required, and the support that can be provided by the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. Could you tell me what the governor's role is? Is he a mediator? Is he there in support? Can logistical support or support be provided through decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u55	The governor's role has been very well defined. He is the Commissioner of the Federal Government and Governor of Regional Governments. He is under the direct supervision of the Minister of the Interior. It makes decisions, implements decisions, collects information and implements measures given in this federal phase by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u56	Minister, I will come back to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the remaining questions are being postponed for lack of time, but of course you can also translate your questions into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u58	Mr President, I wish to turn my questions Nos. 55007815C, 55007816C, 55007818C, 55007865C and 55007880C into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic239x.u59	It's noted.
