ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u1	Colleagues, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for taking time in her busy agenda to attend the committee exceptionally on Monday for a number of questions and the important actua debate on the threat of terrorism, which we were unable to deal with last week. I suggest that we start work immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, let me thank you for being able to make you available so quickly to participate in this topical debate. After the draft debate we had last week, it demonstrates, if necessary, the importance you attach to this issue. The recent events in France and Austria, as well as the arrests at home, in Eupen, in La Calamine, remind us that the terrorist threat and the threat of radical Islamism remain present and close to us. Paul Van Tigchelt, the boss of the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), recalled it a few weeks ago in the media, saying that while the Islamic State represented a lesser threat today, the jihadist ideology, unfortunately, has not died. It goes without saying that we cannot tolerate such extremism in our society. Minister, in order to have as broad a view as possible and to have as many figures as possible, I have also sent you a written question on this subject. But today I would like to have your overall vision in terms of preventing and combating terrorism. Do you believe that our country has tools that are relevant and effective enough to respond to this threat in the best possible way? How do you judge the follow-up given to risk individuals and identified as such in the OCAM databases? In general, is the management of information in this area, in your opinion, optimal or should adjustments take place? Madam Minister, my second question concerns a very specific situation, that of our police stations. A few days ago, a suspect in front of the central police station in the Brussels-Ixelles area during curfew hours was arrested. Once the checks were carried out, the officers discovered that he was a radicalized person and found on him a machete and knives. More worrisome, a search of his home resulted in a number of loaded weapons. Minister, this is a matter of particular concern in the current context. The National Union of Police and Security Personnel (SNPS) is sounding the alarm and calling for urgent measures, denouncing a lack of protection of staff in police stations. Do you have any additional information about this case? How do you react to it? How do you respond to the union's belief that too little is being done to ensure the safety of officers? Are there any projects on the agenda in this area? In concrete terms, how have investments in the security of police stations evolved in recent years? Finally, Minister, have you ever had the opportunity to meet with the police unions to discuss this specific subject? If so, what was the outcome of the meeting? If not, is this meeting on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u3	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for allowing this debate to take place, which is appreciated. After two years without a full government, your opening line in the press was that you would remain silent for a hundred days and explore the market. For a new guy, that's not unwise. Of course, this break does not apply to organised crime and the terrorists, because they are not going to fly the white flag for a hundred days because the new minister needs a hundred days of study time. I would like to join with Mr De Maegd's justified questions, but I would also like to give a brief anthology of some headlines from last weekend: 'Stress team police is getting more and more work' and 'Police Union NSPV calls for members to stop writing fines'. Furthermore, the VSOA raised the question of zero tolerance for violence against the police. Your predecessor, Pieter De Crem, has made very strong statements about this, for example that we would never witness violence against the police again. We also read in your policy paper: "Finally, we stress that violence against the police is unacceptable and needs to be tackled vigorously." I suspect that when we discuss your policy paper, we will discuss how that should be done. In the press, you were already a bit more nuanced this weekend, because you said that we would make an effort, that we would try to move towards that zero tolerance. At the same time, I read in the newspaper that Austria wants to lock up extremists convicted of terrorism for life. That is, of course, a different approach. Madam Secretary, my question is actually very simple. What have you done in concrete terms over the past few months to protect us from this violence, against the terrorists that Mr De Maegd has already referred to? I would also like to include the violence against the police in Brussels. How have you been able to strengthen the position of our police in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u4	Madam Minister, I too would like to join in this important debate because the threat of terrorism is something that concerns us and the people. Certain events from the very recent past indicate that we must also be vigilant in our country and take the necessary measures. We have not only experienced the beheading of a teacher in France and the terrorist act in Nice, there was also a terrorist attack in Vienna and an armed man was arrested near a Brussels Commissioner on 26 October. In Eupen, two minors associated with ISIS were arrested and planned to commit terrorist attacks against the police. It must also be said that these plans have fortunately been thwarted by the excellent work of our security and intelligence services. Having said that, I wonder whether the level of terrorism 2 can be maintained. You informed the Chamber last week that the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security will keep the threat level at 2 on 4 November 2020. I wonder what the reasons are for this and whether we should not raise the level. Secondly, I agree with the legitimate questions put by Mr Metsu and Mr De Maegd. What measures have you already taken to prevent such acts of terrorism in our country? Thirdly, Islam fundamentalists have been mapped in the past. Are those records still accurate? Why are they not better screened and monitored? Why aren't they being premeditated? Should we wait for an attack to be carried out before we take such individuals preventively? Fourthly, is there an exchange of information between our security and intelligence services and the same services abroad? Are there any close contacts? Is sufficient information exchanged? Finally, because it turns out to be a European phenomenon, is there going to be additional border surveillance, which, of course, does not mean the external borders of Europe, but the internal borders of our own country? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u5	Minister, I had actually tabled four questions on this subject. The first concerns Operation Vigilant Guardian, about which you have already been questioned in plenary last Thursday, but I have some clarifications to ask you. The second question concerns circular PLP 41, which provides a framework for cooperation between schools and the police, and the third concerns the development of the Radicalism Plan. Finally, my fourth question is more specific and concerns the arrest of an individual presented as radicalized. I recall that this arrest was followed by two more arrests at the end of October on suspicion of attempted terrorist assassination and involvement in a terrorist organization. Madam Minister, I had already arrested you after the terrorist assassination of Professor Paty in France on 16 October. This date preceded the attacks on 29 October, which were preceded by the attacks in Vienna. In making this reminder, I ask who can still believe today that the terrorist threat is not latent in our society, as in many other European states. I heard that the level of threat was maintained at Level 2. However, I was able to hear your spokesman say, about a week ago, that you were going to apply increased vigilance. Mr. Paty's murder is a response to the cartoons of Charlie Hebdo. In 2015, following the brutally murderous terrorist attacks against the French newspaper Charlie Hebdo, a memorandum of understanding had been ratified between the Belgian departments of the Interior and Defence to allow the presence of our army alongside our police forces in public space. This is how Operation Vigilant Guardian was set up, followed by the announcement, a little later, of a landing or an end of mission at the end of 2020. Like France and other democracies, our country had a unique organisation to respond to exceptional situations in order to support the police forces in the monitoring of public space and the maintenance of public order. In my party, I would also like to point out that we have been calling for this measure to be implemented for many years. Today, international military conflicts, our participation in the coalition against Daesh (with, in particular, the new F-16 mission in Syria and Iraq), the situation observed over the past three weeks and which saw France being placed in a state of emergency "Attentat" as part of its Vigipirate plan, are all elements that demonstrate the level of instability and insecurity existing in the face of the terrorist threat. As announced, Madam Minister, my questions will first focus on this Vigilant Guardian plan and then address the security of our schools, the Radicalism Plan and the broader follow-up of radicalized people. With regard to Operation Vigilant Guardian, has a re-evaluation already been carried out, regardless of the regular assessments made by OCAM, at the level of threat analysis by the relevant services? On what basis and on what criteria was the extension of the operation in question finally decided? Moreover, given the health situation we are facing and the risk of the threat, should we not think of a new division of security and protection tasks within our country? If so, how soon do you intend to deploy another distribution of forces? Among them is the famous DAB whose difficulty in filling the frame is known. In this regard, could you remind us of the number of active officers in the DAB? What is the current number of military personnel on the national territory in the context of securing certain strategic spaces and places in our country? Of course, I do not ask you where they are present and where they are kept. I just want to know the number. When will the military presence as you currently see it end? Finally, what police planning have you considered to replace the soldiers of Operation Vigilant Guardian? Secondly, Circular PLP 41, which, as you know, was drafted after the murder of a teenager in July 2006, provides for accompanying measures to ensure a safe school environment through a police point of contact for schools in local police areas. The circular targets, inter alia, drug offences, violence-related offences, and how schools should be able to contact law enforcement agencies quickly in case of problems. This is of course done to help a rapid police or judicial reaction, in order to avoid sinister consequences. Therefore, particularly in the light of the terrorist attack on Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, I would like to know whether it is PLP 41 that governs all the decision-making and information processes between schools and the police for any offence or that may lead to a crime or a crime. I am thinking in particular of threats, slanders, calls on the Internet or on social networks. I would also like to know what recent assessments and analyses have been made of this PLP 41 and its effectiveness. What information procedure is currently in place between the so-called contact police officer in the area and the CSILs? In this regard, are the events relayed by schools systematically recorded in a database? Finally, as a result of the decapitation of a professor in France, have specific guidelines been issued to local police areas and schools in implementation of PLP 41? Thirdly, you have already referred to the development of the R plan in your reply at the plenary session. Given the evolution of the acts committed and the changes in indoctrination that have occurred in recent years, if not in recent weeks, it is necessary to update as frequently as possible our action plans and our monitoring and surveillance mechanisms. All of our police and intelligence services need continuity. These services also need to be prioritized according to the realities of the field. You have also announced, as I said at the moment, your willingness to evaluate the R plan. So, concretely, with what purpose do you intend to carry out this evaluation and, above all, within what time frame? What departments will be responsible for the evaluation? Will this assessment involve local police areas and prison directorates? What are the priority reinforcements that you intend to take the initiative in the Action Plan against radicalisation at the level of social networks and the Internet? In this regard, I know that the government agreement provides for measures such as the implementation of the recommendations of the Attentats Committee of Inquiry. In this context, how do you intend to plan a prioritization of the recommendations and, in particular, will you finally implement what we called intensely our wishes, that is, the device of weak signals in terms of radicalisation? Finally, what are the specific directions that explain your willingness to change the name of the R plan to "strategic plan of extremism"? Fourth and lastly, with regard to the arrest of a person presented in the media - I remain cautious - as "army and radicalised", it has been known for many years that the surveillance of radicalised people is a huge challenge. Monitoring and information procedures are essential for monitoring the OCAM database. This requires, as you know, the means but also the processes of exchange of information between the federal police, local police and local actors, such as the CSIL I mentioned earlier. The arrest before us was relayed by the media on 27 October. He was therefore arrested in front of the police station in the Brussels-Ixelles area, rue du Marché au Coal. That raises the question, especially since we did not have many answers about this incident. This person was armed and it appears, following a search, that weapons were also found at his home. Minister, is this information accurate? If so, when did this inquiry take place? Was this supposedly radicalized person listed in the OCAM database? In which case, I'd like to know what police surveillance was in place. Is there not control or other measures to prevent radicalized people from possessing lethal and non-lethal weapons? Are there specific filters that could be applied to them? Finally, what information can you give us about the objectives that have been pursued and the potential networks related to the person being questioned? I apologize for taking a long time, but I was less so than if I had asked the four questions separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for making time available for us today, on a Monday, so that we can have this debate. In recent weeks, our neighbouring countries have been shocked by terrorist attacks. In France, several facts occurred in which people were killed by attacks by so-called lone wolves. On November 2, a man opened fire on a synagogue in Vienna, and after that, several people were shot in different places in the city centre, wounding several people. Terrorists are getting close again, Madam Secretary. Apparently, a terrorist attack by two minors has also recently been foiled in our country. Two young men, from the East Cantons, would have planned to attack one or more police commissaries. They were preparing for that. Fortunately, the good work of our police and judicial services has prevented this attack in good time. I have three specific questions for you. The threat level in our country remains at level 2 for the time being. For certain sensitive areas, it goes to level 3. Does that change the way our police work? Will you take additional measures to ensure the safety of the police stations and the policemen in our country as a result of the foiled attack? In the past, for example, police stations have already been temporarily closed down. Are you in consultation with our local police forces? Do you consider it necessary to take additional measures at our external borders in the fight against terror?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u7	Madam Minister, the world has seen with horror in Vienna that the terrorist threat has not disappeared. The latest events in Eupen, which have been recalled by my colleagues, have confirmed to us that she is still present in our country. In view of the above, can you tell us what is the assessment of the threat to our country by the relevant services? Are any special measures taken to enhance the security of our territory in this context? Are there sufficient resources to follow up on radicalized people in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for taking the time for this topical debate. Many things have already been said by colleagues. I would of course like to thank Mr Pivin for his detailed question on the DAB. I told you in plenary the other day, you know how sensitive we are in the MR to an assessment prior to the withdrawal of the military from critical points. Mr. Pivin has asked you a whole series of questions that will really allow us to clarify the possibilities of replacing members by DAB post in a future that I do not know if it is near or distant. This, of course, is the purpose of the evaluation that we have requested to produce. The question I wanted to ask you after the increase in the threat we have seen in Europe – I am not going to go back to it, colleagues have made a lot of emphasis on what has happened in France, Austria and elsewhere – about what I consider to be an increase in the threat which is worrying on the ground and which is worrying a part of us in Parliament, in Belgium as well. On 5 October, a person was arrested not far from the police station on Rue du Marché au Charbon. Mr. Pivin alluded to it: machete, firearm, explosives. On 30 October, and I ask you to confirm this - I know because my information reaches me directly from the ground - there would have been calls on the social networks to produce attacks in Brussels, attacks which have been heard if we obviously confirm the arrest on a train by the railway police on 30 October of a man with a machete whose statement, as I have been told, was also classified as terrorist. And then, obviously, there's Eupen, where an attack on our policemen was foiled. You keep in touch with the OCAM. The Commission has decided not to raise the level of the threat, as was done in France and, I imagine, in Vienna and other countries. Why do we maintain Level 2? Why don't these facts lead us to increase it? I would like to hear you explain how the OCAM justified to you a lack of need to raise the level of the threat. In terms of clarity and transparency, your answer will no doubt help us to understand this choice. For my part, I find it difficult to understand why nothing has changed in this regard, given the facts that I have just outlined and the attack that has been foiled. Turning to the second part of my question, I understand even less that the level of the threat has not changed with regard to our police stations and our police officers. Whether it was Eupen's attacks or the one that led to the arrest of an individual in the rue du Marché au Charbon in Brussels, each targeted police officers. Your predecessor had been able to make specific arrangements for this kind of threat. Do you and OCAM feel that it has become more important since the threat began in Europe? Would this not have justified an increase in the level of the threat, at least with regard to the police stations and our police officers? Could they not have been allowed to be equipped with their weapon between their home and the workplace, as was the case not so long ago? You indicated on Bel RTL that specific instructions had been given to the police regarding their safety, because of the attacks that targeted them as such. What about it? These are some additional elements to this topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, as this is a topical debate, in addition to my four very specific questions, I will add, if I may, a few more cross-cutting, complementary questions for a broad debate. My first question concerns those five Danes who have been expelled and who have, in any case, been ordered to leave the territory. Madam Minister, you announced that the Aliens Office had ordered five Danes to leave Belgium and no longer enter for a period of one year. According to the press, these people supported a preacher of hatred and posed a threat to public order and security in our country. Minister, what specific threats did they pose? What burden did they have on them? What was that hate preacher? Was he in Belgium? Is he still here? Is it still a danger? Were there any contacts with other people? Do we have cooperation with Denmark on this issue because I imagine they were expelled to Denmark? Since we are in the Schengen area and there is normally no border control, can we make sure that they will not return? I would like to know a little more about this case and what justified the expulsion of these five Danes. It is not a country to which people are used to evict. My second question is more general and concerns the new wave of attacks and threats in Europe. There were these horrific terrorist attacks in France. There was one in Austria. There's also what's going on with us. I myself have referred to this case of expulsion of five Danes. Minister, what is your feeling about what is happening in Europe and the intensity of this threat? Our services, the OCAM in particular, have kept the level of threat to level 2. Does that mean that you have not taken any initiative? What types of increased vigilance have our security services taken especially since the Nice attacks? That is my third question. I am informed of some very specific, very serious threats to some of our citizens of Armenian origin from accounts and sites that are mostly based abroad, which call for the murder of representatives of the Armenian community. They have simply been involved in humanitarian aid, but for that they are facing threats to their own security. In fact, it's in connection with the ban on Grey Wolves in France. As you know, France is about to, or has banned, dissolute the ultra-nationalist organization of the Grey Wolves. What about Belgium? Do you think these Grey Wolves represent a very strong threat in Belgium? Will specific measures be taken? I am talking about this because I have just received a leaflet, written in Dutch, which seems to have been distributed very massively in Malines. This leaflet is clearly from Turkish circles. He denies genocide, is deeply revisionist and negationist, and is very hostile to the Armenian community. This represents a new threat to the latter. I think we need to pay close attention to these ultra-radical movements, which today pose threats to some of our fellow citizens. I ask you to be particularly attentive, and I would like to have your reaction to this leaflet that refers to "British deep State" or something like that, typically a conspiracy signature. My fourth question concerns the dissolution of radical associations in France. Here, too, you have seen that France is taking certain measures against associations that it considers to be hostile and a threat to public security. Do you make the same type of inventory in Belgium? Do you conduct a review of associations that could potentially pose a threat to public garbage? What is the status of this question in Belgium? Did what happened in France also create a special vigilance towards certain groups, certain associations that could be considered a threat to public order and that should be dissolved? After addressing the four issues that I had tabled, I now turn to three more cross-cutting issues. In your policy note, you obviously called for further implementation of the recommendations of the committee of inquiry. I must admit that I would have preferred you to tell me that you would speed up, not simply continue, the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. Indeed, we regularly take stock in Parliament of all the measures that have not yet been implemented, whether in terms of resources, human resources, technological resources, or legal basis. There is still a lot of work to be done in relation to the follow-up to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. I had a very specific question for you. Our group has asked the Speaker of the House to do so, and I would like to see a follow-up committee set up in Parliament on this issue. Indeed, today the work is not doing well, because it takes place in the various specialized committees of the House. Once, it's in Health, once in Foreign Affairs, once in the Interior, once in Justice. A committee to follow up on the recommendations of the Terrorism Committee should be held in the House on a regular basis, several times a year, but certainly not at the pace we have seen before. I would have wanted to know if you were willing, on the government side, to approve and support such an idea. It seems to me to be a good policy. Today, again, questions are not followed seriously in some cases. It is not the same parliamentarians who follow them in any committee. We do not know how effectively government ministers articulate their initiatives. It would be much better to continue to hold this monitoring committee. This would also allow Parliament, if necessary, to be able from time to time to audit our security services to take stock of the follow-up to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. That was a supplementary question. Another topical issue is that we have seen that some attacks in Europe are being carried out by people who have been released from prison. A series of people have been released from our homes after being convicted of terrorism. They potentially represent a threat of recidivism. We know that. It's an established fact. Gilles de Kerchove recently spoke of this in a press article at European level. What initiatives are you taking today to prevent recidivism and to ensure that these people are monitored and, where appropriate, integrated into the population and no longer pose a threat? Last question: the budget. I was very surprised that you have no budget and that what existed before is missing, namely this budget or this interdepartmental fund for the fight against terrorism and radicalism. These funds allowed for flexible and relatively rapid allocation of additional resources where they were needed. I am therefore surprised and concerned that your Government has not provided for any budgetary capacity to combat radicalism and terrorism. I would like to be reassured on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u10	Madam Minister, the recent terrorist attacks in France and Austria show that Europe is still a prime target for Islamic terrorism. Vigilance remains in place because the threat to our country, as well as to our European neighbours, is very real. Indeed, the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) evaluates it to two on a scale of four. I am against the arrest in early November in Eupen of two minors - apparently radicalised - suspected of instigating an attack on police officers. If the outcome of this attempt is under control, it reminds us once again - and the Liège police forces unfortunately remember it very well - that the police are easily identifiable and privileged targets for anyone who plans to commit an attack. For these police officers and for our citizens, we must be prepared to deal with such an eventuality in our country in the coming months or years. That is why I am surprised that many State Security officials are expressing their concerns about the means available to them. In particular, there is a glaring shortage of staff, which pushes the service to abandon certain tasks such as organized crime or certain sectarian organizations. Madam Minister, first of all you said, with your colleague Mr. Van Quickenborne, whom there was no reason to increase the assessment of the terrorist threat. On what basis do you and OCAM assess this risk? Secondly, while there is no reason to review the upward evaluation, there is a need to strengthen the State Security services. It is reported that recruitment of current officers is insufficient and will not compensate for departures in 2021. Thus, is there a strategy to strengthen the human and technical capacities of these services as soon as possible? If so, when can we expect an effective increase in staff? Finally, do you believe that our country is ready today to counter possible terrorist threats? If not, what are the gaps that we need to bridge?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u11	Madam Minister, I will listen very carefully to your answers to the questions put together in the debate. However, I would first like to add my voice to Mr Pivin's question about the Vigilant Guardian operation. Will Defence support be discontinued from 2 December 2020 or will capacity be reduced? What is the state of play with regard to the development of DAB? Will the tasks be fully taken over by DAB? Are there any recruitments to be made? If so, how much and how long is that planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the attacks in France and Belgium in 2015 and 2016, various measures taken by the government have, among other things, extended the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Law on Special Methods of Research. Several ministerial circulars and the College of Attorneys General have been published, allowing the effective exchange of information between the various actors and the follow-up of known persons. The radicalism plan has been deepened with a view to providing a structure adapted to an integrated monitoring of these, which are assessed as presenting a risk to society, both at the repressive level by the security services and socio-preventive by the communal administrations. This is, of course, a priority within the police services. The implementation of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Terrorism of 2018 will also be continued. As you know, the MACO publishes a comprehensive threat analysis every month, which is reassessed at the time of any new threats or incidents, as was recently the case. Thus, the level of threat to the French Embassy was raised at stage 3 following the recent attacks in that country. Currently and today, the OCAD believes, based on all available information and elements, that there is no need to adjust the overall threat level. Each level of threat shall be determined on the basis of the severity and probability of the hazard or of the threat. Different indicators will be charged. Certain indicators are static in nature, such as the fact that our country has been a potential target for groups like IS since 2015. Other indicators are rather dynamic, such as the number of ongoing threat files in the public prosecutor's office and the police and intelligence services, the seriousness of those files and the likelihood that these threats would materialise. In addition to the national context, the international situation is, of course, being considered and, as one of the questions raised, there is frequent contact between the various security and intelligence services. Recent developments in a number of EU countries, such as France, Germany and Austria, are certainly elements in the balancing framework. On the basis of the various indicators, as I have just outlined, the current threat level in our country is scaled as level 2. This took effective account of all recent threats, including the potential threat to the police and police commissaries. I would like to emphasise that the threat level 2 does not mean that no threat is identified or that the threat identified is negligible. I therefore continue to believe it is important to invest in a stronger medium- and long-term security culture, both on safety and on the prevention of problematic radicalisation. With regard to military personnel deployed in our territory in support of police forces for strategic site security missions, their maximum number is periodically determined by the Council of Ministers. At present, this number is 550 taking into account, moreover, a reserve capacity which can be implemented immediately. When Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG) ends, security missions will be taken over by the local police, except for sites and locations specifically provided for by the DAB, as well as places already assigned to the federal police. The NCCN shall assess which sites are protected and by which service, based on the threat assessment assessed by the OCAM and a risk analysis in collaboration with the service concerned. Depending on these two elements, an appropriate level of protection is determined for each site. Both the Defence and the police are in a position to guarantee this level of protection of any kind. The discussion therefore focuses on the available capabilities. DAB is now ready to assume responsibility for monitoring a significant number of sites. A roadmap has already been agreed with the Ministry of Defence. I can't give you any more details for security reasons. The Security Directorate currently has 1,142 staff members and has yet to hire 458. The Federal Police Personnel Directorate is undertaking several targeted campaigns to encourage recruitment to the DAB. Colleagues, the Radical Action Plan known as Plan R was updated in 2015. We were then in a wave of departures to Syria and in times of attacks on European soil. OCAM's mission is to coordinate this R Plan and thereby update it. The update exercise was initiated with all partner services within the national task force, both federal and community and regional. The Standing Commission of the Local Police and the General Directorate of Penitentiaries are also represented in the National Task Force and participate in the updating processes. The succession under the Plan R and through the common database focuses on all forms of extremism and terrorism, including Islamic extremism. Today, the phenomena of terrorism and extremism are changing. Since 2015, the framework has also evolved with the creation of the joint FTF database, the royal decrees on homegrown terror fighters (HTF), hate propaganda and subsequently, potentially violent extremists and persons convicted of terrorism, or with the July 2018 law for local integral security cells in the area of radicalism, extremism and terrorism. The development of the common database is not unimportant. She's technically managed by the federal police. The OCAD shall be the operational responsible. The database includes all known extremists and terrorists. Names can be presented from both bottom-up, from the local task forces, and top-down, from the central services. The OCAD validates the inclusion or removal of entities in the database. For each person in the database, the OCAD shall prepare an individual threat analysis with a level of threat and motivation. This information card is made available to the mayor via the Chief Constable. On the basis of the threat assessment, efforts will then be made to take the most appropriate measures to reduce the threat posed by the person concerned. Measures can then be taken at the local level within the functioning of the local integrated security cell and either the local task forces or at the federal level. The aim is always to pick up signals of extremism as soon as possible and to take action against people who call for hatred and violence. If there is an acute threat, there will of course be a repressive and disruptive approach, driven by the police, police and/or intelligence services. In the case of measures that are more socio-preventive, they are taken at the level of the local integrated security cell to be organised by the mayor at municipal level. In the local task forces, the emphasis is on exchanging information in the repressive field and monitoring security. At least once a month, the participating services and the public prosecutor come together and exchange information on known extremists on their territory. Local task forces also decide on appropriate measures vis-à-vis each individual. A tailor-made approach is sought for each individual, sometimes more repressive, sometimes curative, rather than re-integration into society. A go-ween is provided between the local task forces and the local integrated security cells. This is the information officer, a police officer who forms the bridge between the two platforms. It is always important that measures are taken that are tailor-made as much as possible on the threat of each individual or group. Measures are also taken that are more socially supportive or curative at the level of the local integrated safety cells. We are committed to a policy that goes beyond purely repressive and that relies on active cooperation with Regions, Communities, cities and municipalities and civil society, in other words a multi-agency approach at all levels of government. Colleagues, on the occasion of many of your questions, the facts of the intervention on the night of 26 to 27 October, I can inform you that the public prosecutor and the competent services, including the OCAD, are following these facts very closely. If the threat increases, the OCAD will not fail to raise the level of threat vis-à-vis police officers or commissioners. For the time being, everything indicates that this person had a psychological problem. There are no indications of extremism or terrorism today. Consultations were also held with the trade unions within the local police area of Brussels-Elsene on 27 October. Following this meeting, the existing measures were reiterated. Compliance will also be monitored. Finally, as previously planned, the reception will also be refurbished. The analysis of the OCAD today does not suggest that specific measures should be taken for police forces. Therefore, no meeting is currently called for with a view to changing the specific measures. I would, however, like to make it clear that the adoption of special measures falls within the competence of the National Security Council. The latter does not consider it necessary at this stage, also on the basis of advice from the OCAD, to prescribe special measures for police forces. Colleagues, I do not have to explain to you again that the police are in constant contact with the security services as well as with their foreign counterparts to exchange information. On the basis of concrete elements, targeted monitoring may be carried out or additional surveillance and security measures may be taken. The movement of persons in the Schengen area is, in principle, free, so Belgium cannot simply organise border controls. In addition to the general threat assessment on which I have sufficiently explained, the OCAD also prepares ad hoc punctual threat assessments, which may concern an event, but equally a sector or certain targets that could be threatened by one or other group or ideology. It goes without saying that these punctual threat assessments may differ from the general threat level. You also asked me about the electric pulse gun. I can tell you that the test phase for non-lethal weapons, i.e. the electric pulse gun, the taser, is still in progress. I look forward to a new report on this. In his letter of 12 June 2019, the Minister of Security and Home Affairs, Mr Pieter De Crem, highlighted the encouraging results achieved during the test period. However, given the lack of actual use of the taser and the fact that some pilot areas had not had the opportunity to use this particular weapon, the Minister of Security and Interior had decided to extend the test period until 30 June 2020. However, the training of future users of the electric pulse gun did not escape the crisis and, due to health conditions, was interrupted. For these reasons, the pilot phase is extended until 30 December 2020 to allow the new police areas associated with the pilot phase to train these users. The training has resumed in minor mode since the beginning of June 2020. A third report will be submitted in December 2020. Several police areas are participating in this test phase. The data obtained are promising. As far as the legal framework is concerned, I stress that there is already a legal framework for the use of this weapon. The police may have special weapons, such as taser, provided that I obtain prior special authorization from me and have completed appropriate training. This training exists for taser and each area participating in the test phase has the necessary special authorization. Since the crossing from level 3 to level 2, it is no longer possible for a police officer to take back his service weapon from home. At present, this is not considered necessary, but the situation is constantly monitored. Mr. Pivin, you still had a question about schools. Circular PLP 41 was written to deal with specific juvenile delinquency involving violence and the possession of weapons in order, among other things, to ensure a safe school environment and not for situations such as the murder of French teacher Samuel Paty. Contact persons for schools mentioned in the circular maintain close contact with official information. As I have already said, they are members of local police areas and have undergone specific information processing training under Plan R. Information officers are represented in the CSIL-Rs, which deal with the socio-preventive and follow-up aspects, as well as in the local task forces that deal with the repressive aspects. The Crisis Centre recommends increased vigilance with respect to this type of incident and calls on the District Information and Communication Services (SICAD) to disseminate this message to the police areas in their boroughs. Mr Dallemagne, you asked me about the expulsion of five Danes. These were supporters of an extreme right-wing Danish politician who wanted to organize the incineration of copies of the Qur'an in Germany, France and Belgium. This case is an example of perfect collaboration between the various services, both nationally and internationally. The FPS Foreign Affairs, the Federal Police, the OCAM, the Office for Foreigners, the National Crisis Centre and our Danish partners have been closely associated. It goes without saying that, in the current context, including that of the health crisis, if such action had been allowed, it would have posed a major threat to our country both in the short and in the long term. With regard to your question about the Grey Wolves in France, we have a latent threat from their supporters. During moments of tension in Turkey, it may sometimes be manifested by intimidation, minor incidents or illegal acts committed against opponents within the diaspora. However, their official representatives condemned all forms of violence. There is no recent information suggesting that the Armenian community in Belgium would be subject to an increased threat. However, it can never be ruled out that nationalist and extremist individuals decide on their own initiative to take violent action against citizens of the diaspora or against interests perceived as belonging to the opposing party. We have not received any reports of threats against them. Conversely, no recent demonstration by the Armenian community has led to serious disturbances of public order. Nevertheless, the vigilance of the law enforcement agencies is still necessary in the event of gatherings that may lead to the encounter of these two communities under tension. Therefore, as long as the conflict continues, it is important to give all necessary attention to the latest developments on the ground. Finally, with regard to the dissolution of radical associations in France, I can tell you that in Belgium, extremist groups, individuals or associations are monitored in the framework of Plan R and through the common database. Local task forces may take certain administrative measures to contain the threat posed by these extremist entities. In addition, legal proceedings may be instituted on the basis of anti-discrimination and anti-racism legislation or anti-terrorism legislation. In Belgium, it is also possible to prosecute persons belonging to a group or association who are apparently and repeatedly advocating segregation or discrimination or who assist such a group or association, what is known as the "association offence". In these very exceptional cases, the ban on private militia may be applied. It is very difficult in Belgium to ban certain gatherings in advance. Freedom of expression, assembly and association must always take precedence and restrictions can only be imposed under very strict conditions. In addition, the effects of a ban are sometimes counterproductive and undesirable. Indeed, the association can act as an outsider and victim, thereby rallying more supporters to its cause. The organization can also operate underground, with a less rigid hierarchy and structures. It is therefore more difficult to get an idea of the extent of its network. Moreover, the cause of extremist ideology is not ruled out. However, an administrative approach has already borne fruit, for example, in the face of certain biker gangs. This means that premises can be closed after extensive inspection of certain inspection services. Certain activities, such as neo-Nazi demonstrations or concerts, may in turn be prohibited on grounds of public order. Funding for certain associations can also be examined more closely. Finally, borough centres of expertise and information can play a role in supporting local authorities. Colleagues, as usual, I would like to ask you to submit your questions in writing for figures. I shall try to answer that as soon as possible. Mr De Maegd, you asked me a question about the interviews with the police unions. I confirm that I had a first meeting with these unions on 6 October last, during which a debate was held. A second interview on violence against police officers and the attractiveness of their work is scheduled for Wednesday. We will address both the messages that unions send to the public regarding violence against police officers and the financial demands related to their work. Mr Depoostere and Mr Metsu, you also asked about the measures I have taken since my arrival. In the first few hours after my oath, I did say that I would work a hundred days, but that does not mean that I would only study at the moments when it matters, like last weekend, one must communicate very forcefully and then take the necessary action. In accordance with the coalition agreement, we will recruit 1,600 additional effectives and ensure that the policemen are adequately equipped. In addition, we will also provide new means such as the bodycams and the tasers, which of course have to be used proportionally, after proper training. We are therefore ensuring that the police have sufficient resources to act against violence. As a result of last weekend's violence, I have effectively recalled the intention to achieve zero tolerance. I have to work with my colleague responsible for Justice, Mr Van Quickenborne, because you understand that the prosecution of these crimes is a matter for the public prosecutor and the courts. In any case, we agree that there will be no opportunity pot and that violence against the police will be effectively prosecuted and punished. This does not mean that there will be a penalty in 100% of cases, as the courts say so. It is not acceptable to ignore facts - because that is too important for all of us and especially for the police, who have to go on the ground every day. What specific measures have I taken in the meantime in response to the attacks in France? Additional analyses were carried out and the security of French interests was strengthened. There is also the ongoing updating of risk analyses. In particular, for the police commissioners, consultations shall be held with the Chiefs of Police and the Crisis Centre to examine what additional measures should be taken in the current circumstances, taking into account the current threat situation. That is what I wanted to answer your additional questions today. In conclusion, the problem that you all mention concerns us and is of particular concern to me. This item will also be the subject of the new Strategic Plan on Extremism, which will replace Plan R. You will receive more information when I present my planned political note, unless I am mistaken on my part next week. The other issues relating to my political note will be dealt with during the committee session next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I'm now giving the members a chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u14	Minister, thank you for this long and detailed answer. I am pleased that the dialogue you have started with the unions continues this Wednesday, as you have just announced. Indeed, I believe that the police unions must be reassured by the means used to combat this problem. You spoke about this meeting that will take place on Wednesday and about this commitment of additional recruits (1,600), bodycams, tasers whose testing phase must continue until December in order to equip some of our police officers. It seems to me that they really need it and we see it every day in the news. Minister, I will remind you of a few dates: - in 2014, Belgium was the first country hit by Daesh, in Europe, with the attack at the Jewish Museum; - in 2015, there were the terrible attacks in Paris; - in 2016, in Zaventem and Maelbeek, Belgium was hit in the heart - 32 victims and 340 injured. Since then, the numerous attacks have not stopped, including the most recent ones: the decapitation of Samuel Paty in France, the attacks in Vienna, the arrests in Brussels, Eupen and La Calamine. The years go by and the news shows this: the threat exists and persists, not to mention hate speech preached by imams or recruiters, not to mention the care of radicalised people, whether Belgian or non-Belgian, and the potential threat posed by the return of certain jihadists from Syria or Iraq or other areas of war, not to mention the follow-up of detainees at the end of their sentence and who are lost in nature. Madam Minister, would it not be time to create general states in Belgium on this terrorist threat in order to tackle this problem in its entirety and in all its aspects? That's a lead I'm sending you. It is not by posing a bandage here and there, with every new attack or problem, that we will eradicate what, in my view, is a real phenomenon of society in all Western countries and not only in Belgium. Our children and future generations deserve a peaceful country where terrorism would no longer be a sword of permanent Damocles. It is true that there was the Attentats Committee and its recommendations. The teachings were obviously important. But, in my view, we must get out of the strict political framework because the problem concerns society as a whole. This goes from the management of cults to education in schools, to cohabitation between different communities - as we have mentioned here with regard to the Turkish and Armenian communities, but there are many others. I am also thinking of the prevention association, deradicalization, prisons, intelligence services - the SGRS in the army or the State Security. As you have said in your answer, the threat is changing and the methods of countering it are also changing. In my view, the general states would allow us to make a complete diagnosis and to attack these cancers of society, namely terrorism and radical Islamism for political purposes. Indeed, I believe that the policy of ostrich, unfortunately, does not work. We saw him well. You have to have the courage to take evil by evil. I believe that Belgians must be able to live in security, and that one of the tools for this, in the face of these evils of terrorism and radical Islamism, is zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. Above all, I remember that a lot of things still have to be done. That makes sense, too. I would like to tell you that I think there are a lot of hopeful things in your policy paper. I want to have said that before we have discussed it. You have mentioned once again that you will argue for a stronger safety culture. You will find in us your best ally. Something in me even says a stronger, more constructive ally than some of your coalition partners. That's what time will tell. One of the besognes is that I have read that the contribution to the local police would greatly decrease, but we will discuss it next week. Something that strikes me is what you're quoting about the person in Ixelle about whom I asked a question, who wants to attack a police commissioner. You call him a psychiatric problem. He's not connected to extremism or violent radicalism. In 2018 we also experienced this with Benjamin Herman, who was radicalized in the prison of Marche-en-Famenne. Afterwards, he shot two agents in the market in Liège after calling Allahu Akbar. They never dared to say that he was radicalized, because there was no evidence of that. The guard reports didn't show that either. We also need to get rid of the whirlwind that it's all psychic. I have a friend of an anesthesiologist who may have made it too much yesterday, promised to read the e-mail he sent me anonymously to you. "Hi, Koen, the end of the rule of law seems to me to be in sight. Meanwhile, our employees double to take care of these "young people" or their families intensively. It's a great shame. Naming is no longer enough, laughing with our policemen. Meanwhile, politics continues to argue civilizedly from the ivory tower. I'm really sick of it." We must discuss this in a civilised manner, and no one should doubt it. It is also very important that we draw conclusions and act vigorously. What colleague De Maegd just said about zero tolerance: sometimes you have to fight evil with evil. That's the way it is, often they don't understand any other language either. Once again, I would like to say one more time: you are advocating a stronger culture of security and we will prove to be your ally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u16	Madam Secretary, I find your answer a little non-binding at times. When you are talking about a local task force that will fight terrorism through a tailor-made approach, which will not necessarily be a repressive approach, I am not entirely reassured. If you say that you are concerned about medium- and long-term security, then I wonder whether we should wait for something to happen before we take action. Isn't it much better to take preventive action? Either the potential Muslim terrorists are known or not, but you say that the security and intelligence services have mapped them out. If we know these people, then we must take their Belgian nationality and send them back to their home country. That is, in my view, an efficient preventive policy. As far as border controls are concerned, you are getting rid of it rather quickly by saying that this is not possible because of the Schengen area. Of course, that's not true. Both France and Germany and Austria have successfully introduced border controls. That is perfectly possible if there are specific reasons for doing so, such as the threat of the State. People are not asking for words yet again, they are asking for deeds. Above all, they are asking for a signal, so that they feel that you are serious about tackling Islam terrorism. Finally, I had already read on Twitter that you will provide additional capacity and equipment for our police services, for which thanks. I think the police will be grateful too, but this alone will not solve the problem. As long as the Justice Department doesn't follow, you'll mop up with the tap open. How many times in this House have we already dropped the word 'zero tolerance', without anything actually ending up on the ground, that is impossible to count on both hands. You have good intentions, which I will also support, but you know very well that without the necessary reforms we can mop up with the tap open in the area of justice and without a lick-on-piece policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for the answers you have given us and for the answers you still promise to give us. I was quite pleased to hear that the BAD had increased density at the level of its workforce with 1,142 elements. It's not nothing! This is certainly better than the figures I still had in memory during the previous legislature! Of course, there is still a long way to go with the recruitment of about 500 people. This is probably the reason why you indicate that the DAB is ready to assume its missions on many sites but probably not on all of them. I was also pleased to hear that the police would continue to be able to carry out their mission on the public space with the help of the military whose number you did not tell us on the ground, but I heard you say that for the numbers, you were going to provide us with your answers in writing. I guess I'll find the number I asked you about it. However, I still believe that a global reflection must be made on a new division of labour in the light of the health situation. It's not up to me to tell you, but you know that the police suffer from a recurring, permanent shortage of staff. The situation is obviously not improving with the health problems that our country and others are facing, even then, and this is probably the paradox, that we need the police more now, if only to ensure the control and compliance of all the measures decided at the government level. Fewer staff and more police needs, that's the situation! I think that should encourage you to reflect on the redistribution of tasks among the various stakeholders. With regard to schools, I thank you for the clarification you have given me. So I made a mistake thinking it was PLP 41, but I thought I understood that that was what it was about when I questioned you in plenary after Professor Paty was murdered. Indeed, I had heard you quote PLP 41 or I did not understand your answer. As far as Plan R is concerned, I will not comment as you tell us that you are going to address the various issues in your policy note next week. I therefore reserve the right to question you unless you anticipate the questions that I asked you at that time, which will save us time. I thank you, Madam Minister, for your availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I'm hopeful. I think it is good that you have underlined once again that the level 2 of a threat level is already a serious level. That puts us on the ground again, because we think that level 2 is already normal. We think that we should move faster to Level 3, but it is good that you have emphasised this. Like many colleagues, I have read your policy paper with great interest. There are hopeful things in there like the bodycams and the collaboration. This is hopeful, but I would also like to stress the importance of zero tolerance for terrorism and violence against the police, which will be the subject of a debate in the near future. I follow Mr Depoostere when he says that you have a great deal of desire and strength to make work of it. That is what we hear in your answers, which we read in your policy paper, but it will be important that your colleague from the Justice Department is also with us. After all, nothing is more frustrating than the fact that our policemen are working hard, but that the courts are not following. Unfortunately, we have seen that in some cases. I hope that you will keep this in mind with us and that you will ensure that justice can also follow your decisive policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for all your answers, which I must say were quite thorough. An hour and thirty is the time it took us, but it allows us to see more clearly. I want to register completely falsely with regard to what Mr Metsu said. Your best allies, Minister, are in the Reform Movement. At your service and at your side, you have several parliamentarians who intend to accompany and support you in this work related to terrorism. Mr Pivin and I sat in the Attentats Committee. Other members of the committee have been involved in these matters for years. Thank you for answering my question to you. I had withdrawn it because it seemed to me to be out of the news of terrorism. It was about tasers and non-lethal weapons. I take note of this and thank you for your reply. I also note your opening with regard to certain financial requests. The police unions, as my colleague and friend Philippe Pivin points out, are being put to the test. I'm not even talking about Ixelles' fights a few days ago. Like him, I'm talking about the health situation that really puts our policemen at the test, and places them on the grill constantly. Of course, you can only be encouraged to be open to requests that they may make. I'm telling you from the outset, since you've talked about it: I don't understand this change in semantics, and this Radicalism plan that will become an Extremism plan. Of course, terrorism and violence are also the extreme right and the extreme left, but it is also radicalism. Rather, it should have been called the Extremism and Radicalism Plan, because radicalism remains the main threat to terrorism today. I would add a flat, however, Madam Minister, with regard to the analysis of the OCAM and the fact of staying at level 2 including for our police stations, and for our police officers. As we know, we have been working with a few parliamentarians in this committee for years on terrorism issues. The police were targets. They were killed in our country by terrorists. I see both the November 5 arrest on the outskirts of a police station and the foiled attack on police officers a few weeks ago in Eupen, and the fact that there is no movement, that we remain at a level 2 threat for police stations and police officers. It's not nothing level 2, but it's about a "unlikely attack." In this case, it was an attack on police officers that was foiled. However, we remain at this point of threat. That's why I'm putting on a flat. The answers I did not get here, I will probably get them in the Committee R's accompanying committee. With regard to the answers you have given to Mr Pivin on the subject of the DAB, I thank you for your clarification. As he said, there is still a long way to go. From my point of view, and given our delayed recruitment, we still need to train all these people. However, the proportion of DAB officers monitoring critical points represents a small share of the workforce. I assume, Madam Minister, that you will come back to present your assessments. In any case, I thank you for making this point so clearly. As Philippe Pivin said, even if we have not obtained some answers, we will receive figures. Therefore, we will not hesitate to come back before you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. Some of them are very detailed; others, as you yourself have indicated, will wait for your policy note. Nevertheless, I thought we could have had a debate on this subject today, because it will be drowned in several other issues next week. I am thinking of the budget, the follow-up of radicalized prisoners, etc. You have not said anything about how the implementation of the recommendations of our Committee of Inquiry on Terrorism will be verified. As such, you did not speak of a follow-up committee in the House. However, it would be a very useful instrument, for we have not been following these questions properly for a year and a half - it must be admitted. A year and a half ago, I had already submitted this request to Patrick Dewael. I repeat it today. We need the House to have a consistent and consistent tool to follow up on the recommendations of our commission of inquiry into the attacks. Many of the issues raised today relate to it: whether they are the DAB, the means of action of our intelligence services, the legal basis, and the victims who still have a lot to expect. All of this really deserves a coherent approach on the part of both government and Parliament and a serious follow-up on all of these issues. I insist on that. I come back to the answers you have given to my questions. It was very interesting to hear about this Danish story, on this extreme right. You have not yet told us all the reasons why these people came to Belgium. Why did he find that this was the place to come incinerate the Korans? What were their prior relationships? It would be interesting to know because it's a completely amazing story. These individuals come from Denmark to provoke the Muslim population here. They think that here, perhaps, there is a special soil to provoke a major incident and eventually antagonize our society and our people. This is not an anomaly. It is a story to follow and complete in order to guard against this kind of initiative in the future. Congratulations to our services for having been able to stop this provocation in time! Indeed, we already have enough difficulties today in creating a living together and in making society all together. As far as the Grey Wolves are concerned, I hear what you are telling us, namely that it is complicated to ban associations, private militias, because they would risk carrying out more discreet actions, which would run the risk of going under radar. Be careful not to have too much naivety in relation to this! At one point, in spite of the difficulties you are talking about, I think it takes strong symbolic actions to show that certain lines cannot be exceeded. As we know, terrorism does not come from anything. It comes from minds that, for months, years, have been manipulated by brainwashing, by the hatred that is put in people's heads. You tell us that the official representative of the Grey Wolves does not call for hatred and condemns violence. Nevertheless, it creates a soil, a kind of permissiveness that can lead to violence. We need to be extremely careful about this. In particular, I spoke to you about this box that was distributed in Malines. You didn't mention it. It is a prospectus that mocks the Armenian genocide, which denies it, which is extremely violent for the Armenian community here. In France, it would be forbidden because it penalizes the Armenian genocide, unlike our country, which still does not penalize it. I have tabled a bill and I will table one again. It is a very important marker for our society. At some point, some red lines cannot be crossed in our society. It seems to me very important to point out that there are speeches which are not necessarily calls for violence, but which create a climate which makes it possible at some point for certain individuals, on the basis of these speeches and with reference to them, to allow themselves violence and unacceptable actions. You also tell me that you do not have any clues or information about Belgians of Armenian origin who would be threatened. Yes, there are! In fact, in recent days, I have approached our security services; I could talk to you about this outside of this public discussion. There are clear threats, threats of assassination and beheading against at least one Belgian representative of the Armenian community. In fact, it is followed by your police services; I have made the steps for and that is the case. There are clearly threats against certain Belgians of Armenian origin who have made themselves known for distributing humanitarian aid and who have done nothing else. I know these people very well and I know their reputation and their righteousness. Yes, these threats exist and I ask you to give them all the necessary attention, because it would be tragic that, in addition to the violence they are experiencing in Armenia, they are experiencing them here, in Belgium, on the part of completely radicalised individuals. Minister, I agree with my colleagues on the unacceptable threats to the police and the need to translate into reality the zero tolerance that you have mentioned. As we have seen in recent days, violence against the police is quite intolerable. We need the security and police services with confidence in themselves, in the presence of the institutions behind them so that they can carry out their protection work in the best possible conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. They were very comprehensive on the OCAM and on the police. On the other hand, with regard to State Security, I have a real frustration. I asked a relatively clear question about the lack of human and financial resources currently available to this body. We can talk about repression and police as we've been doing for a while, but prevention remains an even more effective weapon. Unless I am mistaken, I have not actually received an answer on this point. Is this a distraction on my part, on your part, or an invitation to come and listen to you at the presentation of your general policy note where, I am sure, you will address the subject? The future will tell.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u22	Madam Secretary, is there anything you wish to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u23	Mr President, perhaps very briefly, in my opinion, Mr Dallemagne, I have made it clear in the general policy note that we are going to follow closely the recommendations of the Monitoring Committee. For Mr. From Smet, on the engagement of personnel in the State Security, I did not comment in detail on this, because any matter relating to State Security personnel falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. That's what I wanted to add!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u24	Thank you for that additional information, Madam Secretary. We can conclude the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u25	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u26	Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u27	Thibaut, the photographer in question was not involved in the management of the demonstration, but followed the police forces of the police zone for a photographic report. The Brussels-Ixelles police zone does not employ any person without police status during police operations. The police work only within the existing legal framework. As a result, extralegal methods are neither foreseen nor allowed nor permitted. The organization of the police is a prerogative of the administrative police. The management of indicators and the implementation of infiltrations, on the other hand, is the responsibility of the judicial police. These are therefore separate subjects, which are not to be confused, since the specific research measures fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice. The latter measures are, moreover, the subject of confidential directives. Therefore, I am not allowed to reveal the techniques and methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. These facts seem to me to be a cause for concern. For this reason, I will follow closely the ongoing disciplinary investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament 55009298C by Mrs Van Peel will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u30	Madam Minister, we are seeing an increase in tensions between the police and some citizens, which results in violence against each other, which is obviously reprehensible. It therefore seems appropriate to continue to raise the issue of bodycams. The testing phases initiated by certain police areas, including PolBru, are therefore the first step towards more objectivity in the judgement of certain facts and towards the restoration of what we all want, namely a relationship of trust between citizens and police officers. Nevertheless, the Police Information Review Body issued an opinion based on both the operational guidelines and the practical conditions for the use of bodycams. It is clear from the opinion that this use raises certain questions relating to the respect of the right to privacy. The opinion points to a violation of the Police Function Act, which requires an oral warning to be given before registration by the member of the police force is initiated. However, in practice, it is shown that this warning is difficult to give depending on the circumstances or is sometimes even forgotten. The Criminal Code protecting citizens from listening, learning and recording communications that are not accessible to the public is also a second obstacle. It is therefore imperative to act in order to optimize the consistency and legality of the use of bodycams. Beyond the legal framework, it is also essential to determine the real added value of bodycams in order to measure the need for their expansion at both the local and federal police levels. Minister, do you think the issues raised by the Police Information Review Board are barriers that should be addressed? Would you be prepared to support a parliamentary initiative to align the use of bodycams with privacy restrictions? Did you have access to the conclusions of the test phase initiated by PolBru? If so, could you provide us with the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u31	Mr De Smet, as I have already raised in a number of previous parliamentary questions concerning the follow-up to the own-initiative opinion of the Police Information Review Body following the findings of an investigation into the use of bodycams, a working group has been set up within the integrated police force. The working group considered the opinion collectively and made its observations and proposals on the subject in a report that was presented and validated by the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. I await his analysis of the measures to be taken before discussing the various points. As far as the conclusions of the test experiment organised within the local police of Brussels-Ixelles are concerned, a total of 15 bodycams of three different brands were tested between 10 February 2020 and 8 March 2020, each for a full week by different services. In addition to compliance with the relevant legal provisions, the terms of use of these bodycams were as follows: - the bodycam filmes continuously; - the recording is triggered by the staff member with a retroactivity of 60 seconds; - an oral warning is given to the individual when the bodycam recording is activated; - the police officer has an obligation to film any intervention; - at the end of the patrol, the recorded data is unloaded into a server. The majority of participants felt that the test period was too short. Nevertheless, the return of staff members to bodycams is very positive. They believe that this tool brings real added value in the context of the intervention and that it is a significant guarantee of safety for both the policeman and the individual. They did not encounter any discomfort in their movements as a result of the bodycam's wearing. They are of the view that images and sounds are additional evidence in addition to their traditional means of finding, among other things, to serve as an objective intervention and also to be useful in the preparation of a report. The obligation to notify the public of the use of a bodycam when recording is activated is not always obvious given the circumstances of the intervention. However, this has generally had a calming effect with the people filmed. A second major test phase should be launched over a six-month period involving all operational services. This will make it possible to assess the different features within very different environments and taking into account the specific circumstances of each service. This second test phase will also allow further development of the technology of the back office part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u32	Madam Minister, I thank you for your very thorough answer and thank you in advance for following this bodycam issue, which I am convinced can help restore a very necessary relationship of trust between police and citizens, for the safety of each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u33	Minister, I wanted to ask you about the dismantling of a migrant camp in Tournai, which took place on 8 October. Time has passed since then, but there are many questions. This migrant camp was located along the E42 motorway, near Froyennes. According to reports in the press, some 40 people, mainly women from Ethiopia and Eritrea, were arrested. Other similar camps have been dismantled in recent weeks, notably in Zeebruges. Therefore, the following questions arise: what happens to these people after these arrests? Where are they taken? What information do they receive about their rights? Are they properly informed of the possibility of obtaining international protection recognition? Of those affected by this evacuation, how many have applied for asylum? In view of the high rate of recognition of international protection for persons from those countries, did the Aliens Office initiate procedures for their implicit application for asylum?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u34	Mr Moutquin, those who cannot prove the legality of their stay in the territory are deprived of their liberty. In this case, the 15 intercepted persons were transferred to the Federal Police Station in Tournai for administrative treatment and contact with the Aliens Office. During processing, they are all explained their rights using the standardized form?- Is that what you're saying? a person in an irregular stay. If they receive an order to leave the territory, the latter is accompanied by a model letter from the Aliens Office indicating their rights, possibilities for further measures and remedies, etc. This is given to them before they are released. If they are made available to the Aliens Office, they receive all information concerning their rights in the closed centre. As far as your other questions are concerned, I refer you to my colleague Mr Mahdi, Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u35	Madam Minister, by referring me to your colleague, you are right. I will put this question to him too. This shows the need for joint work, since the two issues are, of course, linked. I don't do angelism at all. There are real problems in these migrant camps on motorway areas. To have already visited, I know that there are, among other things, problems of trafficking in human beings and other problems, including the sexual exploitation of women. However, if only a security approach is adopted to these camps, these camps will unfortunately reappear. As we know, the issue is fair information about people's rights. This may be the subject of a question to your colleague. Often these people do not know that they have rights here in Belgium, because they are manipulated by smugglers. I am thinking above all of Eritreans who still have a fairly high rate of recognition. In short, the issue is information, so that these camps, in the medium or long term, no longer exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u36	Mr. President, Minister, my question goes back some time – given the political circumstances – and relates to the police's communication about the destruction of a migrant camp. On 17 August, the Bruges police zone and the federal police carried out a joint operation leading to the arrest of a dozen migrants and the destruction of their makeshift shelters located in a undergrowth near the Zeebrugge railway station. The police communiqué announced the participation of some 30 officers from the Zeebrugge area, supported by some 15 others from the federal police. As a result, no fewer than 45 officers and at least one drone were mobilized to challenge a handful of migrants. In several newspapers, a photo of some 15 agents proudly posing behind a few cartons and blankets presented as the remains of the shelters used by these migrants was seen. Minister, how can we justify making such police means available, at first sight disproportionate to this operation? Is there a communication strategy on the part of the police to demonstrate a certain firmness against the migratory act?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, if I may say so, Mr Moutquin has set the stage for the questions that are being put to you today concerning the dismantling of migrant camps in transit, through the case referred to at the moment. We must not lose sight of the distress situation of these people, which, moreover, obviously leads to problems of public order. We understand that. I live them daily in Waremme, as I explained last week. It is therefore a matter of finding a good balance at the communal level between public order, the outstretched hand, the necessary respect for the law and the preservation of the security of everyone. In this context, the federal police can intervene, as has been the case in Bruges. However, the way these interventions are conducted raises some questions. In particular, some question the rules of intervention and the proportionality of the operational choices chosen, in view of the dignity of the persons covered by those operations. Minister, what are the texts governing the intervention of police officers in this kind of situation? How is the balance of interests established as regards the proportionality of interventions and the choice of method of intervention? Beyond intervention in the field, what are the accompanying measures for those involved in federal police operations? Are they planned to take over directly or to cooperate with regional or local authorities with a view to a route that would not be limited to the repressive aspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Moutquin and Rigot, after receiving a great deal of information about an increase in the number of transmigrants in Zeebruges and the possible existence of a camp recently built along the railway line, the local police in Bruges launched a major action. The camp was found hidden deep in the bushes. Some transmigrants have been made available to the Aliens Office. This action is part of the ever-increasing tensions in Zeebruges between transmigrants. A reaction from the police was therefore necessary to try to avoid escalation. This explains not only the large number of means and personnel deployed, but also the communication conducted. The police report on this action was, in fact, accompanied by a photo showing the speed with which a vast camp is created, but also the extent of the police effort around this phenomenon. [[.]] On social media, there is indeed some framing around the photo. Bruges police indicated that they would monitor their communications even more in the future. The Federal Navigation Police provided an intervention team in support of the case where its Zeebruges cell complex was to be used, as well as a technical support team for the flight of a drone. For its part, the railway police mobilized a patrol to prevent the risk of accidents with trains operating on nearby railway tracks. Finally, two police officers on horseback from the Directorate of Public Security were also referred to this operation. In order to inform me about the situation of the transmigrants in Zeebruges and the challenges that this entails for the authorities of the port, the mayor, the police and the residents, I went there on a Friday – I don't remember the date – in November with my colleague, the Secretary of State in charge of the Asylum of Migration, Sammy Mahdi. Indeed, the situation requires a targeted approach with all partners. I have noted with great satisfaction that the various partners are working successfully on this issue. On the day of our visit, a family with four children was saved from a cold container. Mr Rigot, any intervention by the police is regulated by the Police Function Act, the Code of Ethics of the Police Service, the intervention logbook and the field guide, and the competent authority's directives. At the direction of the competent local administrative authority, the police services are required to remove makeshift camps set up by persons in transit. In particular, the police are being asked to assist and to carry out administrative treatment of persons arrested in situations of illegal residence. For these reasons, and with a view to ensuring proper treatment of the persons concerned, the police advocate a humane approach to the phenomenon by ensuring respect for the persons arrested. According to national legislation, the police are obliged to make persons arrested in a situation of illegal residence available to the Aliens Office. During the administrative treatment, the persons questioned are informed about the possibilities of applying for asylum and obtaining additional assistance. During their stay at the police station, people intercepted receive meals and drinks, medical assistance and blankets to warm up. There are several well-known cases where police officers, in their personal capacity, gather old clothes and toys to offer them to individuals and families in need. In the event of an emergency, CPAS may be used. As already mentioned during my visit in November, I was able to see that the police are making great efforts to respect the rights of transmigrants and to treat them with respect, of course, apart from those who have committed crimes and are responsible for trafficking in transmigrants themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u39	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. This action and its impact on communications on the social networks of the police raises two questions. First, there is the frequent destruction of the property of transmigrants. Even if their illegality is proven or the lack of the possibility of seeking asylum, I wonder why the destruction of sleeping bags or clothing sometimes occurs. I will ask you a question about that. It is known that it is often citizens who come to the aid of these people and they find themselves somewhat distraught to have to collect clothes, sleeping bags, etc. each time, which is still a matter of assistance to people in danger. On the other hand, I hear the importance of the operation, but I still wonder about the usefulness of sharing some photos on social networks. I do not see the added value of this kind of communication, whether it is for the dignity of transmigrants, but also for a certain serenity in the debate on the migration issue, which, as we know, is already very complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no doubt that, in our police, everything is being done to ensure a respectful, humane approach in accordance with standards. But in this case, in this particular case, I doubt that what has been done on the ground is the translation of what theory and values put forward. Indeed, I maintain that this communication was inappropriate, to say the least awkward. As my colleague has pointed out, it is also incomprehensible and gives me the feeling that it may convey misunderstanding among the population or even stigmatization by the population. It could give a negative image of the police and give the impression that migrants were criminals. Let's not be misguided! The only violation of the law attributable to migrants and transmigrants is the lack of documentation and the right of residence in our territory, but it is not criminals or persons who justify such a forceful deployment. I find this balance of power disproportionate. I'm afraid the work you're going to have to do in the years ahead will be important, because you're going to have to raise awareness not all of us, but some of our police officers, as well as some of the behaviours that, as in other situations that we've been able to experience, don't always have a place in our police. In this case, I don't think this has a place in our police, at least in terms of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u41	Mr Colebunders is not here. His questions 55009653C and 55009656C expired. Mr Vicaire is not here either, so his question No. 55009748C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u42	Mr President, in order to buy time, is it possible for me to refer to my written question and then get the answer, without reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u43	Madam Secretary, I don't suppose this could be a problem? You will give Mr Metsu the written answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u44	Mr President, you may use the same procedure for this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u45	Mr President, the same applies to this question. That way the Minister can try to finish the agenda. I am the only one asking questions about this and the answer will be in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u46	I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that the questions that are not being dealt with today due to lack of time will be added to the discussion of the policy paper next week. Those questions can still be asked. Mr Metsu, the secretariat reminds me that the report has not been able to answer any questions or answers. You may refer to your question, but we do not have the Minister's answer. I suggest you turn your questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u47	The Minister may read her answers, but that's a bit cool. When would I get the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u48	Indefinitely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u49	Mrs Taquin is not here, but Mr Moyaers and Mr Thiébaut are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u50	Mr President, given the limited time available to us, I would like to refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u51	Minister, as we know, the pre-pension non-activity scheme is a system designed to solve the thorny problem of the end of the career of former gendarmes faced by the Michel government. However, funding for this scheme is a problem because it is not anchored in time and because of a lack of such anchoring, the cost of this measure may again be based on local police areas. What measures are being taken to ensure that these amounts are not borne by local areas and therefore by municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moyaers and Mr Thiébaut, first of all, we must distinguish between the end-of-life scheme in itself and the financing of the additional costs involved in the scheme for local police areas. By offering an adapted employment or by non-activity prior to retirement, there is currently no change in the right to the end-of-life scheme, which was incorporated in the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015. Indeed, that Royal Decree will continue to apply in 2021. The government has not yet taken a decision on the financing of the additional costs. The intention is to develop funding as quickly as possible on the basis of the regime applied in the previous legislature, which compensates for the actual additional costs in local police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u53	Madam Secretary, I did not expect the answer to be so short. It is good that you are making a commitment today to allow this NAVAP scheme to apply in 2021. However, there is a problem, as I mentioned in my question. A total of EUR 46.1 million was earmarked for the Federal Republic and a further EUR 21 million for the year 2020. There is, as it were, a large pot provided by the federal government and according to the number of applications they receive, the police zones can be paid out. However, this NAVAP scheme remains an expensive matter for many police areas and therefore also for local authorities, because they themselves have to concentrate 20% on it. A local police area has lost its staff member early, a replacement has to be provided and at the same time 20 % still has to be adjusted during the NAVAP time. I hear from several police chiefs that it would work better for them if the federal government, which it itself introduced in 2015, were to bear 100% of the costs or simply not do so. Now the police area sees a force leaving, which must be replaced and for whom 20% of the costs must be paid for four years. That is something that we need to think about further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you. Indeed, like my colleague, I find that your answer is quite stoned. Clearly, I will continue to follow this file and I will certainly come back to you for clarification and appeasement of this funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u55	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. I just heard from my colleagues. This year, police areas are finalizing budgets. There is an urgent need for information on this issue to reach the local level. It's very important. We had previously fought at the MR to sustain this NAPAP measure. Of course, the idea is to move towards a structural measure. It is urgent for us, the local authorities, to have your support for NAPAP because it is a measure that has been taken by the federal government and that we cannot have a vacuum between the NAPAP measure and the more structural measure. I repeat, there is a real urgency. Thank you for paying attention to this, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u56	Question No 55010151C by Mrs Zanchetta lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u57	Mr Moyaers, today more than 150 police zones and 45 federal police units have FOCUS. In doing so, FOCUS achieves more than 85% of operational staff. The last 35 police zones are now connected and will have FOCUS by 15 December at the latest. It was chosen to roll out FOCUS in different waves depending on the availability of the technical infrastructure and the order indicated by the Local Police Permanent Commission. On digital innovation, several initiatives will continue, including i-Police, the digital exchange of information with justice and further initiatives on FOCUS. A number of apps are already in development. It concerns in particular the exchange on the ground via FOCUS with computer-aided dispatching, which is used at the level of the communication and information centres and also the management of the teams in FOCUS and the integration of the persons free under conditions, i-plusbelgiumnetfocus. Other suggestions for improving FOCUS are defined in a strategic ICT consultation between federal and local police and then realised within the available budgetary resources. For example, there are concrete questions for 2021 for a comprehensive briefing app that better integrates the information exchange between the local and federal levels and can search from FOCUS in all systems of the Integrated System for the Local Police. It remains the intention to invest in FOCUS and also to work on i-Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for the answers and I will read the details in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-16-55-commissie-ic303x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, because of the Minister's agenda, we now have to close the sitting. The questions that could not be dealt with now will be added to the discussion of the policy paper next week.
