ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u1	Question No 55002656C by Mrs Vanessa Matz is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u2	The question indeed dates back some time ago, but the corona crisis caused some delay. I'm glad I can ask the question now. The DG Persons with Disabilities has had difficult years. In the past, services have failed in several respects. The waiting times for the handling of files were quite long. Phones weren't always recorded. The cause was, among other things, a new software system that did not function properly. There wasn't enough staff either. Afterwards 38 additional file managers were recruited. The deadline for the processing of files then went down. What's the status today? What problems are there today? How has the average processing time of files evolved over the past 12 months? What's the average term today? How many phone calls did DG HAN get in the last 12 months? How many of these calls are double calls from people who had previously contacted the service? How many unique calls were also answered effectively? That was a pain in the past, too. Are the announced 38 additional staff members working effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question was also tabled earlier this year. However, this is an opportunity to take stock, with you, of the situation of the Directorate General People with Disabilities. My questions relate to the same subject as those of the previous speaker. You will recall that several years ago, the Directorate had experienced a number of problems, including a staffing problem when a portion of the staff was transferred to the Regions to manage the elderly allowances. But most of all she had to deal with a computer bug with a new system (the Cúram platform) that had been set up, which created a really damaging situation for many months or even a year. This has resulted in delays in the processing of cases. It was also not possible to reach the services by telephone, etc. Since then, things seem to have changed. The Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities has returned to the former Tetra platform until the computer problem can be solved. I would also like to point out here that the services in question have also suffered from linear savings preventing the replacement of staff. As a result, the number of staff members has become insufficient, while there has been an increase in work. The 2018 report referred to a stabilization plan that had been developed by the Disability Branch, with the objective of improving service delivery to service providers in the coming years. Minister, what is the backlog today? Could it have been largely absorbed? How many files are still awaiting processing to date? How do the statistics for unanswered telephone calls evolve? I would also like to ask you about the average length of time the files are processed. Efforts in recent years had resulted in an average of four months for files that were complete and did not pose any problems. Unfortunately, a computer bug made him climb to more than ten months. However, the situation now seems to have changed in a favourable direction. So, Minister, what is the average processing time for disabled people now? Did she come down below the six-month mark? In other words, does it meet the requirements of the Social Insurance Charter in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u4	We should close, Mr. Delizée. You have already exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u5	How many additional commitments have been made? Finally, what about the audit for the Cúram project?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, last November, following a question from Mrs Willaert, I had the opportunity to explain in detail the new action plan to improve the services of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. I'm trying to update the various actions in my answer today. With regard to the benefit targets that have been set, they continue to be met and the indicators are evolving favourably. In response to your questions, you will find some figures below that show this improvement. The average time limit for the examination of applications for concessions has decreased from 8.1 months in January 2019 to 5.2 months in December 2019. The average term of treatment per year has decreased to 6.2 months compared to 7.7 months in 2018 and 7.2 months in 2017. The number of concession files under examination decreased from 38,412 at the end of 2017 to 22,316 files by the end of 2018, which is a decrease of 42 %. Since June 2019, more than 90% of citizens can reach the administration by phone. Mr Anseuw, you had a question about the number of calls. On average, almost 17,000 different telephone numbers contact the Directorate-General on a monthly basis. About 16 to 17 % of those numbers have contact with the administration at least twice a month. Since February 2020, the monthly results of the administration relating to telephone accessibility, processing times for applications and revisions and the number of files that remain to be processed are available online on the website handicap.belgium.be. I believe that this is a best practice in terms of accountability and transparency of administration. As regards the situation of staff recruited, the framework of the Action Plan is 28 full-time equivalents. A personnel need measurement has been carried out. The time spent on the three key functions, namely file managers, customer managers and social assistants, has been extensively mapped out. The results underline the importance and need for the recruitment of new employees, calltakers, and provide an insight into the optimal staff plan for the future and also provide guidance for further efforts in the quality of services for people with disabilities. In order to further improve quality, the report recommends the hiring of additional staff for a number of key functions. I am very aware of the need to continue to strive for a continuous improvement in the quality of services and for the maximum reduction of delays in the handling of dossiers. The recruitment of additional staff to continue on this path therefore requires the release of additional resources for subsequent budgetary control. I'm sure they'll be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u7	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the update. However, I have one more question to clarify about staff requirements. To what extent has it already been filled in? That is not entirely clear to me after your reply. I know that 38 were announced/acquired at the time. I don't know if they're all active, but if I understand you correctly, you say there's been a new exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u8	Come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u9	In addition, so on top of that 38 again...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u10	(...) I do not have the recent figures, but I remember from previous questions that a large part of them had already been filled in. Some vacancies had only recently been opened, but signals from other administrations show that they are easily filled out. These 28 are additional on the basis of the new measurement that has taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u11	And those recruitments are now going to be...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u12	This will have to be taken into account in a new exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u13	It is good news that in recent years there has been a clear improvement in the lead time of files. If one needs a certain concession, I can imagine that a waiting period of just over five months before a dossier has been approved might be a bit long. Rome wasn't built one day. I welcome the improvement and it is good that we continue to look critically at what resources are needed. This is a vulnerable group that does not have luxury problems, but faces real challenges in terms of support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. They go in the way I perceived earlier this year when I tabled this question. I did indeed want to try to materialise this evolution with figures. I'll read them again with great care. In any case, we moved from a very acute situation, very difficult a few years ago, to a return to normal. Additional staff were initially hired and then trained to handle all of these files, which helped to break the impasse in the service. It is also a good thing to ensure the quality of service for the beneficiaries. There's one thing you haven't answered, unless I'm mistaken. This is the audit on the management of the Curam project. Are we still working with the Tetra platform or are we using Curam? What about this audit and the responsibilities in the bug that occurred? I don't know if you can clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u15	Mr. Delizée, I can't answer your memory. I know I gave answers about Tetra. But I'll give you this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u17	Questions Nos 55002837C and 55003263C by Ms Nawal Farih are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u18	Madam President, Madam Minister, I raised this question some time ago. It concerns worrying figures that call into question our entire social assistance system. Indeed, for children in care, the end of social assistance measures for children can be abrupt and lead, for lack of resources, to school breaks, isolation, and deep precariousness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u19	Mrs. Thémont, may I ask you to speak a little less quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u20	It's because we're timed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u21	It is indeed a complex balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u22	That's why I'm hurrying. The problem is often related to the lack of anticipation of exits in these institutions: the people concerned are often warned of the steps once on the street, which makes administrative procedures very difficult to carry out. Recently, a new service has appeared in the Liège region: the Liège-Huy-Verviers Prevention Service. The aim of the project is to improve youth assistance and to coordinate various sectors in order to assist young people in their efforts. Minister, the company and the development of such initiatives seem to me to be particularly positive. However, in order to combat poverty effectively, a series of measures should be reviewed upstream. I believe that a national plan to combat child poverty is essential. A working group had apparently been set up in the past to develop a proposal in this context. A stakeholder consultation was conducted in June 2016. An item has been included in the Poverty Reduction Plan but, since then, nothing has happened. Where are we? What new initiatives are you considering in this regard? How do you intend to articulate your various actions in order to develop a genuine policy to combat child poverty? Has there been any consultation with the federated entities to that end? The situation obviously deserves our full interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question also dates back, but I think it is still relevant. The Michel government has abolished the integration allowance for young people over 25 years of age, as well as for those without a diploma under 21 years of age. Previously, the risk of poverty was mainly for pensioners. From now on, it also affects young households which, even when working, struggle to tie up the two ends. For the 16-24 age group, the risk of poverty is 22.1 per cent. More than one in five young people are at risk of poverty. Today, more than 27,000 young people between 18 and 25 years of age benefit from social integration income. This figure is seven times higher than it was fifteen years ago, reflecting the growing precariousness, particularly among students, but also among young people in general. Minister, have you planned an action plan to get young people out of poverty? Has there been any consultation with the federated entities in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a policy to combat child poverty must take into account family poverty and address the structural causes of poverty. In the fight against poverty, the federal government places strong emphasis on combating income poverty, for example by increasing the overall employment rate and net incomes, as well as non-monetary poverty, for example by improving access to quality services. It is therefore essential to increase the work intensity of these families, in particular single-parent families, by investing, for example, in accessible and flexible childcare services and mobility. I would like to mention some initiatives and actions aimed at reducing child poverty. 1. At an expert seminar organised by my administration, future social developments with a possible impact on European and national policy to combat poverty were discussed. The reduction of child poverty had emerged as a priority. In the discussion of the next federal action plan to combat poverty, one of the priorities will be the reduction of poverty among children and families. The actions will be carried out as stipulated in a recommendation from the European Commission, in particular investing in children to break the vicious circle of inequality through an integrated strategy based on three pillars: - access to adequate financial resources; - access to quality services; - to guarantee the right of children to participation. 2. The reduction of child poverty was also one of the topics discussed at the opening day of the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion EU 2020. The purpose of the day was to prepare an opinion for the national reform programme. 3. Local platforms for family poverty dialogue focus on how networks can effectively help to lift families out of poverty. Twenty CPAS are participating in this project. In concrete terms, a local consultation platform pursues the following objectives: early detection of problematic situations and the provision of concrete and integrated support for children and their families. 4. Through intensive support, the MIRIAM project aims to strengthen the autonomy of isolated mothers, break their social isolation and reduce their poverty situation. MIRIAM pays particular attention to their socio-occupational integration. Given the multidimensional nature of the problem of poverty and the need for an integrated approach to address it, there is a need to maintain coordination, coordination and collaboration between skills and levels of power. That is also why the Interministerial Conference is also an essential body.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am reassured that the fight against child poverty is on the agenda. As you said, coordination is really needed between the federated entities. It is true that, in the past, the federal government had committed itself to developing with them a realistic plan to eradicate child poverty. However, I am surprised that the rate of unemployment does not decrease significantly. The situation is somewhat paradoxical. I observe that the figures reported by Statbel confirm my words. It shows that for people aged 0-15, the poverty rate is likely to rise from 16 to almost 20 per cent in just 10 years. In any case, certain measures come into force. I will not fail to come back to question you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u26	Minister, thank you for these answers. I am pleased to hear you say that you intend to increase the employment rate and net incomes. I would say: employment, but then sustainable employment. No CDD jobs or other flexible contracts. And increase net income. I imagine, therefore, that we can count on your support to raise the minimum wage, to increase allowances above the poverty line, for equal pay for men and women – because that is also the net income. As far as artists are concerned – I'm talking about it here because it's current – many young artists are in a precarious situation. I therefore imagine that we will also have your support on Tuesday when we consider this proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs. What is also worrying is the increase in the demand for social inclusion income in CPAS. Many young people must turn to this solution. CPAS do not have the means to respond to all requests. There, too, other solutions will have to be considered so that no one is left at the side of the road. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u27	Madam Minister, in the context of the opinion on the reduction of successive daily contracts, the social partners agreed to reduce the use of successive daily contracts by at least 20% over the period 2018-2019 compared to their use in 2016. If the result was not achieved, they undertook to agree more stringent measures. In concrete terms, this meant that the use of consecutive day-to-day contracts with the same user had to decrease from 27.4 % in 2016 to 21.92 % in 2019. In January, the final figures for 2018 and 2019 became known. Thus, with a share of 23.55 % of consecutive daily contracts, 1.63 % is above the agreed target. In absolute terms, we see that 6.44 million daily contracts were still concluded in that year, of which 2.78 million were concluded with the same user. As you know, I have for a long time submitted a legislative proposal which was delivered to the NAR for advice in the context of the priority discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs. This includes a more binding provision to address the improper use of day-to-day contracts. After months of waiting, that advice is still not available. That is why I am addressing you, Madam Secretary. How do you evaluate the non-realisation of the appointment in the mentioned NAR advice? Do you agree with me that it is now finally up to the government to limit this use that puts thousands of workers in income uncertainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u28	Thank you, Mrs Kitir, for your question. The legislation on temporary agency work is a matter based on a delicate balance between, on the one hand, the need for flexibility on the employers' side and, on the other hand, the demand for contract stability and job security on the workers' side. Even more so than in other areas of labour law, the conflicting interests of employers and workers in this area must be reconciled. In 2012, the social partners and the NAR managed to conclude a so-called package deal on modernising the regulation of temporary agency work. Under the agreement, some of the trade unions' demands were met, including the abolition of the 48-hour scheme, which is a system of limiting successive day-to-day contracts. In exchange for meeting some requirements on the employers' side, there was the addition of a new motive inflow and the extension of the possibilities to sign contracts electronically. The agreement was subsequently transposed by the legislator into the Law of 26 June 2013 and by the social partners through national collective agreement No. 108 confirmed on 16 July 2013. Articles 33 to 40 of the collective agreement lay down the conditions for the use of successive daily contracts. As part of a biennial evaluation, the social partners in their opinion No. 2091 the commitment to take more binding measures itself if, on the basis of RSZ figures, it appeared that the number of consecutive daily contracts would not have decreased by 20% in the period 2018-2019. In the implementation of the agreement at sectoral level, the individual companies which make excessive use of successive day-to-day contracts are also highlighted as being responsible. Mrs Kitir, I believe that we must respect the agreement between the social partners. The relevant RSZ figures for 2019 have been published. You quoted them, too. They are currently being discussed in the NAR.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u29	The social partners should be given time to assess the figures, but they should also agree on more stringent measures as they do in Opinion No. 2091 have been agreed. It is the tradition in this country to respect social dialogue and the government will do so. I really hope that they will come to proper agreements on a more binding framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree that we need to strike a good balance for the employer and the employee. I am not against interim work in itself, but I am against its abuse. Everyone will agree that it is not up to people to work with successive day contracts for years. We're not supposed to use the system that way. Pano's reportage on DHL has shown once again what a difficult situation these people are in. The figures were already known in January and it is now already May. I am therefore curious to see what binding measures are going to be taken, because these figures show that the use of successive daily contracts has not decreased at all. I am willing to wait, but I will not let go of this dossier, because I have been working on this since 2007. You are right to say that some measures have already been taken to improve the situation, but there is still a great deal of work to be done on successive day contracts. So it certainly won't be the last time I'm questioning you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u31	Questions Nos 55002986C and 55002987C by Ms Nawal Farih are transformed into written questions. Since Mrs Farih was absent, her question no. 55002988C also became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, the recent restructuring at GSK has highlighted the fact that 40% of staff are managers, which corresponds to about 3,700 positions out of 9,300 employees. In this context, the FGTB drew attention to the shortcomings resulting from the status of framework in the chemical sector. For example, managers are excluded from collective provisions negotiated in the sector or company: they cannot benefit from the collective agreement on the year-end premium, the wage increase negotiated every two years or wage indices (unless they have individually negotiated them). In addition, the number of executives is not involved in the calculation of the number of mandates within the trade union delegation. In the event of collective redundancies, the negotiations take place in trade union delegations and the executives therefore have no representation, which must then defend themselves individually. Minister, would the status of a framework mean lower protection for workers who work in the chemical industry? Should not the generous granting of executive status in various companies better regulate the transition from employee to executive rather than allow this issue to be resolved within companies? In view of the context in which collective redundancies are increasingly recurring in Belgium, do you not think that it would be time to update the legislation relating to the status of framework in the chemical sector dating back to 1971? Should we not also harmonize the status of a framework that differs by sector of activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, first of all, allow me to ask you to excuse me because my answer will include passages in Dutch, since I also answer Mrs Farih's question on the same subject. First of all, I would like to point out that the dispute at Janssen Pharmaceutica, which was brought before the labour court by the trade unions, was not about the application or circumvention of a collective agreement, but about the functions that are referred to as executives in social elections, in other words, which electoral college employees can vote for. It is only in legislation on social elections that the concept of "framework" is found in labour law. The definition is found in section 14 of the Act of 20 September 1948 on the organization of the economy. This definition gives some scope for interpretation. As a result, this has led to a lot of jurisprudence. The Law of 4 December 2007 on Social Elections provides for an appeal to the Labour Court if a trade union organisation does not agree with the list of executives communicated by the employer. At Janssen Pharmaceutica, the syndicates have taken advantage of this opportunity. However, in its judgment of 7 February 2020, Turnhout's labour court largely confirmed the list of executives as drawn up by the employer. As regards collective agreements, certain groups may be excluded from the scope. In this context, a number of sectors talk about non-declared servants. That is also the case for the chemical sector. These employees do not fall within the scope of sectoral function classifications and salary scales or salary categories. The nature and extent of these categories of functions which are or are not covered by a collective labour agreement depends on social consultation at sectoral and/or enterprise level. The sectoral collective agreement on the status of the chemical trade union delegation limits the competence of the syndicated delegation to the so-called certified servants. The syndicated delegation therefore has no negotiating power for the non-declared servants, who are known as executives in day-to-day business practice. This means that the company's CLCs do not apply to executives. The trade union organisations in this sector wish to extend the competence of the trade union delegation to executives, but the employers' federation in this sector has so far not responded to this request. The syndicated organisations may also refer to labour law banks and......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But the case law in this area is not clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is a lot of jurisprudence and there are problems with the status of a framework in the chemistry sector. In addition to what I mentioned to you, these workers do not have a fixed schedule, so it is not possible for them to claim paid overtime. Efforts should be made to regulate this status in this specific sector in order to avoid misuse of the concept of "framework" and to try to review the classification of functions, which dates back 50 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u35	Madam Chair, Ms. Thémont, Bradford's factor is a mathematical formula that measures the absenteeism rate of workers and their disruption to the operation of the company. The underlying theory is that short, frequent and unplanned absences are more disruptive than longer absences. The formula focuses on the frequency of absences rather than the number of days. Bradford's factor is regularly used in the human resources community to assess employee absenteeism. However, to invoke it to justify the dismissal of a worker remains controversial. In a recent judgment of October 8, 2019, the Walloon Brabant Labour Court found that there is prohibited discrimination when a dismissal is based solely on Bradford's factor. First, the court rejected the assumption that it would be the frequency of absences, especially those of short duration, that would cause the most disruption. According to the court, this is not proven in the least. In addition, the court finds that the expected absences are not taken into account, so Bradford's factor focuses on absences due to illness. This means that there is dismissal because of a protected criterion within the meaning of the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination, namely the current or future state of health of a person. In light of this finding, the Tribunal finds that the employer does not establish that the measure is objectively justified by a legitimate purpose and that the means to achieve that purpose are appropriate and necessary. Therefore, the Labour Court decides that Bradford's factor is not legally valid and that this abstract formula does not provide a sufficient basis to justify an individual dismissal. He rightly demonstrates, in his judgment, that the factor is biased, since he attaches disproportionate importance to the frequency of absences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u36	Thank you for your answer, Minister. She reassures me. This calculation on Bradford's index remains, as you said, very controversial. For my part, it is a tool of discrimination. In my question, I was starting from the specific case of a person. STIB's absenteeism plan has resulted in several casualties. The issue opens up a broader debate on discrimination related to the health status of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u37	Questions Nos 55003141C and 55003167C by Mrs Nahima Lanjri are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u38	Minister, a series of platforms (such as Uber or Deliveroo), known as a collaborative economy, promise easy and flexible remuneration. Today, this economic model raises a lot of questions. Indeed, hiding behind a role of intermediary, these platforms impose a real subordination on workers who are often forced to work as independent workers. However, two years ago, the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT) considered that the working arrangements proposed by Deliveroo were "incompatible with a qualification of self-employment". Since then, the platforms have been playing with all the procedures to avoid taking on their responsibilities. At the end of December 2019, the Brussels Labour Auditorate accused Deliveroo of not declaring its couriers as employees and therefore of having avoided paying wages and social contributions. In March 2020, the French Court of Cassation ruled: Uber's drivers are not self-employed, but wage-earners. In addition to this false entrepreneurship, the platforms give us a sad reality with the sometimes disastrous consequences: workers are rarely warned that they have to bear the costs of their activity alone and that they have to contribute themselves for their pensions, holidays and social protection. Madam Minister, in Belgium, your government has put in place a kind of third status for platforms, to the detriment of workers who were deprived of any protection. We are pleased that, since the date of submission of this question, the Constitutional Court has annulled the Casual Labour Act, which we considered inadequate and totally discriminatory. Nevertheless, this law remains valid until the end of the year, now these workers in a difficult situation for several more months. Will you take an initiative to clarify the situation and allow workers in the platform economy to obtain the status of salaried worker? Do you intend to put in place measures to combat false self-employed persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u39	Ms. Thémont, the nature of labour relations within the platform economy is a problem faced by jurisdictions in many countries. Depending on the specific situation of the workers concerned, the foreign courts consider that they are either employees or self-employed. In Belgium, labour relations criteria must be applied. On this basis, the French-speaking Chamber of the Administrative Commission for the Regulation of the Labour Relations decided in 2018 that two couriers from Deliveroo should be considered as employees. However, since at the time the inspections were already investigating the nature of employment within the company, the decision was appealed to the Brussels Labour Court. He then decided to take up the case and assess the very nature of the employment relationship, but his opinion is still pending. Several European-wide studies show that the platform economy is heterogeneous and that there are large disparities between Member States, the types of work performed and the profile of platform workers. The share of people who earn their main professional income by working on platforms is currently estimated at 1.4% of the total working population in the European Union. It has been observed that this work is becoming increasingly diverse and that the development of a suitable methodology and measures is essential. In its guidance note, Eurofound stresses that a unilateral approach to this phenomenon - based solely on labour law - is impossible and that a multidisciplinary approach is needed. As platform work is evolving, Eurofound warns against intervention through comprehensive legislation and instead advises to develop a tailor-made approach, depending on the type of platform work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for these elements, but I do not think you have answered my question. I wanted to know if you were going to make any arrangements to maintain this law until the end of the year. As mentioned, this system of work is still allowed until the end of this year, which poses enormous problems, particularly in the light of the current crisis. On the one hand, the law increases the precariousness of workers working in the platform economy because it does not oblige employers to pay compensation if the worker has seen his activities stopped by the crisis or if he falls ill. On the other hand, it exposes workers to several health hazards because it does not require employers to provide any protective equipment to workers. This crisis really requires us to put an end to this regime. As you have also said, the Labour Court will, on October 28, 2021, issue the pleadings in the case concerning the status of the Deliveroo couriers. We look forward to them. Minister, I would have liked to have your reaction to the points I have just made regarding the end of this regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u41	I'll be very brief. My answer was, of course, much longer. I only have two minutes, it's just as difficult for me. There is indeed the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The law runs until the end of this year, so it is still in force until the end of this year. It will be up to the next government and Parliament to follow up on this, if desired. However, the law is still running until the end of this year, as was clear from the ruling on this matter. For the follow-up, it is up to Parliament or the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u42	Mr van der Donkt, the social elections are carried out according to a very strict procedure laid down by the law of 4 December 2007 on social elections. After each social election, the procedure and legislation will be thoroughly evaluated by my administration. This evaluation, including suggestions for improvement, is submitted each time to the social partners in the National Labour Council, which may, on this basis, include proposals for legislative amendments in its opinion. The most recent amendments to that law in view of the social elections in 2020 took account of Opinion No. 2103 of 23 October 2018 of the NAR. The division between workers and servants is a historical labour law. That division is indeed being phased out in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court in 125/2011 of 7 July 2011. The question therefore arose as to how this trend should be translated into the regulation of the social elections. As it represents a fundamental approximation of legislation, when moving away from the classification of workers into different categories of employees, the unification of the statutes was presented as an evaluation point to the social partners in the NAR in view of the 2020 social elections. However, it had to be established that the social partners, in the context of their Opinion No. 2103 could not reach a consensus on the harmonisation of the statutes with a view to the 2020 social elections. During the discussions in the NAR, certain parties considered that it was appropriate to achieve unification in the context of the social elections procedure only following harmonisation at interprofessional and sectoral level, on which the Group of Ten is holding discussions. This is why it was considered that harmonisation of the statutes in the social elections rules for 2020 would be premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u43	Madam Minister, I did not receive an answer to my last question. In your opinion, what initiatives or measures would be desirable in order to bring about a regulation on this matter at least by 2024, or do you expect us to be confronted again with separate electoral colleges for workers and servants by 2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u44	Mr van der Donkt, this harmonisation must be achieved. It's about temporary unemployment and vacation days. When harmonisation is complete, the necessary measures can be taken in the light of the elections 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u45	Mrs Thémont, the problem of homelessness is a complex one which is repeated in various statistics drawn up by various bodies. However, we do not have any reliable and accessible centralized statistics that would adequately answer your question. That is why my administration supports the implementation of the recommendations made by the researchers responsible for MEHOBEL research funded by the Federal Science Policy. Among other things, the Social Integration PPS and the Home SPF are working together to make it easier for homeless people to be counted up-to-date as reference addresses. The Anti-Poverty, Precariousness and Social Exclusion Unit is also leading a working group aimed at collecting data and optimizing the monitoring strategy. The federal authority subsidizes measures to accommodate homeless people in the country's five major cities (Anvers, Ghent, Brussels, Liège and Charleroi); 500,000 euros are granted per city. In the Brussels-Capital Region, the SPP Social Integration provides, in particular, a reception, accommodation and accompaniment centre. Given the specific situation in the Federal capital, a budget of €1,323,000 is released. In the context of the crisis of the coronavirus, I also released a budget of 652,050 euros in order to extend by two months, until 31 May, the winter reception in the rue de Trier. This should allow homeless people to continue to benefit from accommodation. In the centre of Rue de Trier, 250 homeless people are accommodated. Fifteen isolated rooms have been created to isolate homeless people who may be infected with coronavirus. The cities of Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi also received a subsidy totalling 200,000 euros. The cooperation agreement on homelessness and the absence of a home on 12 May 2014 provides a description of the competences and measures undertaken by the different levels of power. For more information on support schemes for homeless people in rural areas, it seems to me that you are speaking to the regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. My question was more focused on rural homelessness. You're telling me I have to go to the Regions. We must be careful: there is more and more poverty and people can quickly find themselves on the street. You have unlocked resources, but it will take even more after the crisis we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u47	With regard to the first question, service titles have been a regional employment measure since the sixth reform of the State. This issue is therefore no longer within federal jurisdiction. As regards your question concerning health and safety at work, the company authorised in respect of service certificates is, as an employer, responsible for the well-being of its workers, also when this work is carried out with third parties (Article 9 of the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001). In this context, the employer must provide for health surveillance, which means that domestic helpers are in principle called by the labour physician of the external service for the prevention and protection at work of their employer-service title company for medical examinations. The triangular relationship between the company of securities and services – home help – customer therefore does not pose any difficulty for the monitoring of the health of these workers. The difficulty in this area concerns the workplace, which is located in a private home. Consequently, access by the employer or his prevention advisor is difficult. The completion of the risk analysis requires the consent of the client in order to access the home. However, the client is expected to behave as a good family member towards the worker, including by providing the appropriate equipment. It must also ensure that it does not endanger its health and safety by avoiding the need for dangerous work or the free movement of dangerous domestic animals during working hours. It is advisable to include such agreements in the contract between the service securities company and its customer. Our Employment FPS offers tools to help companies analyze the occupational risks of their workers in order to determine prevention actions. Finally, it should also be noted that there is a sectoral training fund title-services, which offers training and tools for domestic workers, in particular on how to use cleaning products safely and work ergonomically. In this 'corona' period, we have published a guide which gives answers on safety in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u48	Thank you, Madam Minister. You are a little ahead of my reply because the guide is probably a practice that meets these difficulties. Subsequently, once the current difficulties have been overcome, a training guide on the use of products could also help this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u49	Minister, until the late 2000s, the impact of robotics and digital technologies was essentially limited to certain sectors and occupations. Since then, we have been witnessing a massive diffusion of these technologies in all productive activities and, more generally, in society. This is particularly important in Belgium, where 169 industrial robots per 10,000 employees are recorded, while the world average is 69 robots per 10,000 employees. Minister, we cannot deny that robotics and digitization allow for better productivity and performance, which are beneficial to our country's economic growth. However, technology does not only bring benefits; it radically undermines the functioning and organisation of certain sectors and sectors, leading to the risk of job losses. This risk was confirmed in 2013, when a Belgian transposition of a study by Oxford University concluded that 39% of jobs are at risk. Moreover, it is crucial to stress that the wealth produced by technological change is not shared equally among all Belgians. In the long run, this trend seems to benefit mainly the highly skilled workforce: from 2000 to 2013, the share of medium-skilled occupations fell by 3.3% in Belgium, while the share of high-skilled jobs rose by 3.9%. Thus, as Paul Jorion says, we are moving towards a society where the owners of capital, the owners of robotic and digital technologies and the highly qualified employees "share the benefits of new innovative companies. At the same time, the rest of the population is struggling to get a poorly paid job, since its added value is now negligible." Minister, the growing share of digitization in our economy requires us to rethink the model of work. It is imperative to intervene quickly to regulate this development and to legislate. This leads to a risk of job loss and increases social inequalities. Have you ever analysed this problem? What avenues do you propose to address these problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u50	Madam Chair, Ms. Thémont, increasing digitization and robotics is one of the trends that we have paid great attention to in recent years. To answer your first question, the impact of increasing digitalisation on employment, with potential job losses, is very difficult to measure or predict. Numerous studies have been published since 2013, each with a wide range of confidence. Estimates of the precise impact of this digitization vary widely. According to the employment prospects of the OECD in 2017 and the Higher Employment Council, the main effect may not be in the net creation of jobs, but rather in the adjustment of tasks in most jobs and sectors. While it is difficult to accurately estimate the magnitude of the impact, we are well aware of the main challenges that arise from digitization. As you have already mentioned, digitisation involves, first of all, an increased risk of polarisation between low-skilled and highly skilled jobs. The OECD, like the Higher Employment Council, foresees that digitisation will mainly restrict the supply of medium-skilled jobs. This could, however, create eviction effects. If medium-skilled people are ousted from their jobs, their future employment will sometimes be less skilled. In this way, unemployment among low-skilled people will remain high, even if these low-skilled jobs are less affected by technological change. This brings me to a second important challenge. Indeed, Belgium lags behind in terms of diplomas obtained in scientific, mathematical, computer and engineering orientations as well as in terms of digital skills in the working population. If the supply of jobs in the digital economy increases to the extent estimated within the framework of the most favourable forecasts, we will have to ensure that we are able to meet the demand for both polarisation and the need for new skills and continuing training. The social partners and labour institutions can take action to substantially correct the effects of automation on the labour market. A number of actions have already been undertaken in recent years. Education policy depends on the regions, but the federal government supports efforts in these two areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u51	Minister, thank you for that answer. This is indeed an important development that needs to be taken care of. As you said, the training of our citizens in tomorrow's jobs is essential. However, the citizen must not be handed over to himself in this process. We also have a role to play, in consultation with the federated entities, since training is a regional subject, to support workers in these various approaches to retraining, particularly vocational training.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u52	Question No 55003542C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u53	Dear colleague, we are indeed aware that Belgium has long been not the best student in the integration of people of foreign origin into the labour market. The situation has improved only slightly in recent years. The most recent figures based on the Labour Force Survey confirm those of the study to which you refer. The socio-economic monitoring "Labour market and origin" uses more comprehensive data from the Carrefour Social Security Bank and confirms that the gap is large, even among second-generation migrants. International analyses also confirm this. The recommendations are in line with those given in the last three editions of the socio-economic monitoring and those of the most recent edition of March 2020. The recommendations mentioned in your question fall within the competence of the Regions and the Communities, but it is important that all public authorities develop an integrated policy. In addition, some measures have recently been taken at the federal level to combat discrimination in the labour market. In addition to investigating and reporting violations of anti-discrimination legislation, social inspectors have had the power to carry out mystery calls since 2018. In addition, a Royal Decree on affirmative action against discrimination was adopted at the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think I do not exaggerate when I say that, for some immigrants, job search is akin to a path of obstacles. I think there is a reality in Belgium. There is indeed an unequal access to the labour market for young and old immigrants. In particular, you have referred to these mystery calls, which help to combat discrimination in hiring. This is a good thing, even if improvements are also needed in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u55	Madam Chair, Ms. Thémont, during the last Parliament, the federal government has taken up the fight against homelessness as one of its political priorities under the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty. Three types of measures are implemented: the management of social emergencies; the strengthening of the proper administration, where coordination and consultation between the different public authorities is of great importance; and support for social innovation. My approach to homelessness and homelessness places great importance on innovative solutions based on multidisciplinary accompaniment, as is the case with the Housing First methodology. Homelessness and people without a home first need a home. That is why we are investing in the Housing First approach, which has proven its usefulness. It was under the aegis of the federal authority that this model emerged in Belgium. Through a Housing First Belgium programme, more than 700 chronic homeless people left street life and began a process of social reintegration. In order to maintain my support for social innovation, I supported the Housing First Belgium LAB initiative, which coordinates a new social experimentation project aimed at social reaffiliation processes. To do this, I was able to count on the support of the National Lottery and its supervising ministry. The obstacles faced by these vulnerable groups need to be addressed specifically. That is why we support the development of this new social experience with the support of the teams and a coach, with a view to social inclusion in each of them. In addition, an academic group can conduct a scientific evaluation of this experiment. I share your concern about the system of structural financing of support arrangements for homeless people. In the exercise of my responsibilities in day-to-day affairs, I have done my best, through the budgetary mechanism of the provisional twelfths, to overcome or, at the very least, to curb structural progress in the area of homelessness. Coordinated policy at all levels is essential. I am convinced that the dialogue and cooperation between the Federal State and the Regions will reflect the multidimensional and cross-cutting nature of the issue of poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. With the present crisis, the living conditions of homeless people have worsened considerably. Innovative initiatives such as the Housing First program have thus become even more meaningful during the two months of containment. It is obvious that the temporary reception of these people in hotels or emergency establishments is not sustainable. Long-term solutions must be found, in order to enable this already fragile public to regain a minimum of stability as well as a home, as you said, that can help them rebuild without having to go through all the difficulties of the street. Persons who have been able to find temporary housing or those who suffer from long-term homelessness should not be abandoned. Innovative exit solutions should be offered. Let us therefore support those which are already in force, by increasing the budget allocated to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u57	Madam Minister, since 1 April 2003, reception parents who are members of a recognised reception parents service have had the sui-generis status. This is a half-hearted statute in which even official bodies and reception services do not know what to do with the special regulations. For example, the reception parents receive an allowance instead of a wage, the sickness benefit is limited and the holidays are unpaid. Originally this was meant as a temporary statute. It was promised that a full statute would be drawn up by 2006. In 2007, this was even a priority in the coalition agreement. Also in 2010, the federal government agreement was still in the forefront of the government's commitment to a fully-fledged statute. I have regularly questioned your predecessor, Minister Peeters. He then said that he hoped that this full statute would come about by the end of that legislature. In the meantime, we are yet another legislative period and the full statute is still not in place until today. That bad statute is one of the main reasons why many reception parents stop. The work of these reception parents is not to be underestimated. They are entitled to a good statute. Moreover, it is also necessary to make that profession attractive. What is the status of this file? In the meantime, have concrete steps been taken to finally improve this status for reception parents? Is the government prepared to support a legislative initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u58	Thank you for your questions. The choice of a full status for reception parents is essentially a budgetary and political matter. The Sui-generis statute for reception parents is a special statute which, as Mrs Pas said, was created in 2003 within the social security of employees for the so-called subsidised reception parents. A reception parent sui generis is a natural person who is a member of a Community-approved care service for children in a family care home and who is not linked by a contract of employment with that service. These are mainly people who receive at home children who are awarded them by the usually municipal childcare service recognized by the Communities and who receive a grant from the Community. In essence, any municipality or private childcare service can make the choice of policy to employ their host parents on the basis of a contract of employment for domestic workers. If this choice is made, the host parents concerned will have a full status as an employee. The reasons for not doing so are mainly budgetary in nature. The abolition of the sui-generis status in social security can only take place if, within the framework of their recognition powers, the Communities impose an obligation on childcare services to employ reception parents on the basis of a contract of employment. Such a measure will, of course, have certain financial repercussions, both in terms of taxation and social security, the powers of federal colleagues of mine, but also in terms of the operating resources of municipal childcare services and of the Communities which grant them. Until now, no political agreement has been reached between the parties concerned on the distribution of the financial additional price. In 2014, the Flemish Government decided to launch a pilot project in the context of the introduction of a future employee statute, whereby a defined quota of reception parents would be employed in an employee statute for a number of years. The evaluation of this project showed that the total cost to the employer per FTE on an annual basis increases from EUR 30,724 to EUR 33,815 for the private sector and EUR 39,609 for the public sector. I do not think it would be appropriate to have a legal initiative at federal level which provides that reception parents who receive children at home should automatically be regarded as employees. After all, there are also day-care parents active in the labour market who, as individuals, actually take care of children at home on an independent basis. The Communities could provide for recognition only if members of the reception parents were to be employed on the basis of a contract of employment. Furthermore, as regards the employment of reception parents who are members of a childcare service, the general assessment criteria of the Employment Relationship Act of 27 December 2006 remain valid today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. It is indeed a matter of budget, but I regret that no political agreement has yet been reached on this issue. It is already the fourth parliamentary term in a row that I have to ask questions here in this House in order to continue to work for a full statute. The work of the reception parents is not to be underestimated. There's a big outflow in the profession. A fully-fledged statute to make the profession more attractive could also reduce the flow of such welcome parents. I will certainly urge my colleagues in the Länder to continue to follow up on this dossier, because there are indeed Community powers that can also be used. I regret that no political agreement has yet been reached on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I regret that no political agreement has been reached for such an important profession. Childcare is also essential in this corona crisis. My question wasn't corona-related, but it was a little bit. They must wait for a proper statute. In March, before the crisis, I received a number of telephone calls from child care supervisors who, as from 1 April, as the Flemish Government allows, switched to an independent statute and who were completely panicked during the corona crisis. They suddenly saw their protection as an employee at risk and the temporary unemployment and associated administration came about. The social partners have been calling for a good and sound statute for the reception parents since 2002. A sui-generis statute is only acceptable if it is very temporary. These people have a very important job in our society. They have to take our children in their first years of life. They are now left to their own devices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u61	Madam President, Madam Minister, this question was tabled at the beginning of the year and concerns redundancies in the commune of Couvin, which decided to have its swimming pool renovated as part of the swimming pool plan in favour of the sports infrastructure of Wallonia. This work was certainly necessary, but it had the effect that several workers in this intercommunal group had found themselves on notice. Given that this work must last more than a year and that the municipality considers that it has rules to follow in terms of the recruitment reserve and that it cannot guarantee the resumption of these workers at the end of this year of work, the information was taken by the intercommunal to the ONEM which says that there is no possibility of technical or economic unemployment for the staff, since the circumstances are not accidental. That is the meaning of my question. It's not a fire. This is a decision of the authority which, doubtless for reasons of health security, had to carry out this renovation work. Seven of the nine staff members received their notice, without any guarantee of re-employment at the end of this work. They will have to follow a procedure again, while some had a decade of seniority. Madam Minister, in this case, is there a possible solution or derogation for staff in terms of technical unemployment or economic unemployment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u62	Mr Delizée, I do not know whether this question is still present in the light of the Corona crisis, but the reasons why the execution of an employment contract may be suspended are limitedly listed in the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts. These include temporary unemployment for economic reasons and temporary unemployment for technical accidents. In the first case, the employer must take advantage of a lack of work in the enterprise due to economic reasons beyond his control. This lack of work cannot be the result of a deficient organization, poor management or technical reason. In the second case, the technical incident must result from an accident, i.e. an unexpected and sudden event that causes damage. Since there are neither economic reasons nor the result of a technical incident, work to renovate the workplace cannot be taken into account in obtaining these two types of temporary unemployment. Finally, I would like to point out that my answer is limited to the situation where the workers concerned are bound by a contract of employment with the municipality. The answer above does not refer to the assumption that workers are in status. In this case, the answer falls within the competence of my colleague in charge of the Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you. I confirm to you that they are contract workers and of course not appointed and permanent staff. Indeed, these workers are in the case of a figure covering the lack of work for economic reasons. The tool is closed. But it is not beyond the employer's control since the employer itself has decided to do this work. Maybe we should think about this kind of situation. These workers have not requested that this work, which will last a year, take place. They do not, according to your answer, fall within the definition required for temporary economic unemployment. This situation is causing them enormous damage. This is a very difficult social situation for them, which started before the coronavirus. There's no connection. I have maintained the question because it is general and relates to the definition of temporary unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u64	Question No 55003652C by Mrs Nawal Farih is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u65	Madam Minister, the municipalities are competent to determine whether disabled people can park in paying parking spaces or free of charge. Most of the time, the municipalities that allow disabled people to park for free choose to use the parking card provided by DG HAN as evidence and control tool. In certain municipalities an additional registration of persons with disabilities is apparently requested at municipal level. Only persons who have registered with the municipality can park free of charge in the municipality in places that are not reserved for people with disabilities. How do you feel about such extra registrations at local level? Is this practice not contrary to the division of powers between the federal government and the local level? The federal government is authorized to issue maps and check the conditions. A local registration may be justified as the paying character of the parking spaces is a local authority. However, that is not entirely clear. Have you already contacted the local authorities that have entered this type of registration? If so, what was their reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rules governing the enforcement and monitoring of parking spaces are laid down in the general rules on road traffic police. Over the years, the municipal councils have created a lot of parking space for people with disabilities from a human and social point of view and also in the interests of mobility. I can agree with the importance that municipalities attach to the measures that benefit people with disabilities and the continued traffic surveillance that results from this. The FPS Social Security is only competent to examine the conditions for the delivery of parking tickets, so to check whether the applicant meets the criteria of mobility and/or self-reliance to obtain a card. However, the FPS Social Security does not have the power to check whether or not the card is legally used. The paying character of the parking spaces also belongs to the local powers. Consequently, I do not see any contradiction as regards the division of powers between the federal and local levels. Currently, a number of cities and municipalities are already using the scancar to enforce the municipal parking regulations. This vehicle checks the parking right by means of the registration numbers of parked vehicles. The fact that parking cards for persons with disabilities are not digital or directly linked to a license plate creates a gap in the application procedure. As a result, a parking fee is regularly wrongly issued for vehicles containing a parking card for a person with a disability. The result is an additional burden for persons with reduced mobility, since they must bring a challenge to regularize the situation. A provisional solution for some municipalities is to establish a register of residents who have a parking card for people with disabilities. In the longer term, for example, we are thinking of digitizing the parking card. It is important to arrive at a general solution. Contacts have already been made with the three Unions of Cities and Municipalities with a view to a joint initiative. In addition, representatives of some cities and municipalities have already contacted my administration to see what is feasible in practice and within what time frame. Consultations are still ongoing with a view to achieving a solution which falls within the legal framework, ensuring effective monitoring of parking rights and minimising the burden on citizens. I will not fail to keep you informed of the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is a good thing that a comprehensive response can be given to all the municipalities. Other municipalities will want to embark on this type of system in the future, but in order to prevent each one from reinventing hot water, it will be necessary to harmonize the system in consultation with the associations in order to be able to be effective and to waste the least time and money for people with reduced mobility and to be able to automate their rights. The initiative you have taken is the right one, and I encourage you to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u68	Madam President, Minister, it has come a long way when local authorities have to fill the gap that is not filled by a higher level. The effort to burden people who have a card as little as possible unnecessarily with fees is a noble ambition. The fact that local authorities have to do it themselves means, in practice, an additional burden on people who do not live in a particular city or municipality but want to go there. It's the DG HAN who delivers the cards. Then it seems logical to me that the solution should be given at that level. If the cities and municipalities have to do all this separately and one goes with a map to another municipality, then one has to register there first. This means an extra burden. A global solution is at the right level. I understand the local authorities who want to respond to the sighs of people with a card, but they are subject to additional burdens. This seems to me to be something that can be improved and deserves a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u69	Mrs Vanrobaeys, workers undergoing IVF treatment are in fact adequately protected by the judgments of the Court of Justice, which have binding force. For example, the Mayr judgment of 2008 cited by you states that when a worker is dismissed, mainly on the basis of the fact that she is at an advanced stage of IVF treatment, there is discrimination on the basis of sex. The courts of the Member States must apply the national legislation in accordance with that case-law and are therefore bound by the interpretation given by the Court of Justice. It is important that medically assisted reproduction has recently been explicitly added as grounds for discrimination in the gender law. The worker who is treated unfavourablely on that ground, e.g. by dismissal following an IVF treatment, will therefore be able to rely on the protection provided by that law. If it submits facts suggesting the existence of discrimination, it is for the defendant to prove that there has been no discrimination. Finally, the worker may also rely on the protection afforded by collective agreement No. 109 on the grounds of dismissal. On the basis of that collective agreement, workers have the right, on the one hand, to know the specific reasons which led to the dismissal and, on the other hand, there is a right to compensation for the employee if the dismissal is arbitrary, i.e. based on reasons unrelated to the employee's suitability or behaviour and which are not based on the need for the undertaking to operate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u70	Madam Secretary, your answer confirms once again what I was thinking. There is indeed a great deal of concern about this. Moreover, it is particularly difficult for the women concerned to inform their employer that they are in IVF treatment. They really need to take a step in this direction. Since it is also important for them, I would also have asked whether the protection applies from the date of notification, and that is apparently the case: if they take the step to make their situation known at work, then the various forms of protection against dismissal which you have listed apply immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u71	Questions Nos 55001781C, 55002601C and 550040002C by Mrs Florence Reuter are transformed into written questions, as well as question No 55004111C Mrs Melissa Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u72	Madam President, Madam Minister, I asked a question about the quality of the assessments made by the doctors of DG HAN to obtain the right to an integration meeting (IT) or income replacement allowance (IVT). This right is assessed by the doctors working for the regional medical centres of DG HAN. As far as I know, there is little control of the quality of these assessments today. The centre responsible reads the files, but otherwise there is little external control of the decisions taken by the doctors of the medical centres. Madam Minister, the latest policy paper included internal controls. In what way are the controls taking place at the moment? In 2016, the National College for Social Insurance Medicine on Disability of Work was established, in which DG HAN is also represented. It is one of the tasks of the College to develop guidelines that can be used in the assessment of a disability. What work has already been done in this respect? Is it true that the majority of doctors involved in the assessment within DG HAN's medical centres are reimbursed per file? Can this have adverse effects, since it places greater emphasis on quantity than on the quality of assessments? In the meantime, if so, are there any concrete plans to adapt the internal functioning so that this disadvantage can be compensated? What other initiatives are currently under way to improve the quality of assessments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u73	Mr Anseeeuw, the quality checks carried out by DG Persons with Disabilities must ensure that the assessment decisions on the right to benefits are correct and that all conclusions in an assessment report are consistent. People in conditions with the same functional impact should ultimately receive the same benefits, regardless of where and by whom the assessment is carried out. The checks will be carried out on a permanent and targeted basis, including when new evaluators enter the service. Those controls, planned from the second half of 2020, will be carried out by a doctor coordinator and by an evaluator with the required skills, knowledge and experience. The DG Persons with Disabilities is effectively represented in the National College of Social Insurance Medicine on Disability. The work programme of this college has not yet produced any recommendations which are directly or specifically applicable in the context of the assessments for the award of the income replacement allowance or of the integration meeting. However, the College has proposed common criteria for assessing incapacity for work for all sectors of social security. These criteria may be of interest to DG Persons with Disabilities in the assessment of the income replacement allowance. Other relevant task-related proposals of the College for DG HAN need to be further developed. The majority of the assessments are indeed carried out by self-employed doctors who are paid per benefit. This system has advantages and disadvantages, especially because of the current scales that are no longer attractive or are always sufficient to deliver current performance. In the context of the initiatives taken to improve the quality of the assessment, the system of allowances for self-employed doctors is also being examined. The aim is to review the remuneration of all types of services, clinical investigations, documentary examinations, training and meetings and to link these fees in part to the compliance with quality criteria laid down in the above-mentioned control policy. All initiatives to improve disability assessment have been brought together in a comprehensive programme, EVOL. The programme's actions are divided into three parts. The first part includes a better management of the assessment by strengthening the coordination and supervision roles and developing the multidisciplinary approach. The second part concerns the broadening and deepening of the skills of the evaluators through the formalisation and implementation of training pathways. The third section deals with continuous monitoring of the quality of assessment by setting up quality management systems and monitoring programmes for continuous results measurement. You can see that a lot of initiatives have been taken there for your legitimate question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u74	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I have a brief question. I understand that internal controls will be launched in the second half of this year. When can we expect the first results? In what way will it be reported?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u75	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u76	Then I am in happy expectation of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u77	Minister, I was listening to the translation and the microphone was cut. Would you like to repeat the last part about the deadline? The colleagues who listened to your answer to Mr Anseew may not have heard it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u78	Mr Anseuw, you asked when the results of the internal screening would be there. It will start in the second half of 2020 and I said I would let you know the timing and the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u79	Madam Chair, Ms. Thémont, you are referring to a discriminatory gender policy both in terms of recruitment and in terms of labour relations in Prayon. If that is the case, I invite the trade union delegations of this company to inform the SPF Inspectorate of Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, without delay, of all the elements which they consider to be indicative of a policy of discrimination, so that it can take the necessary measures. With regard to compliance with the provisions of the Code of Welfare at Work, in particular those relating to health facilities for men and women, I have instructed the competent inspection service to carry out an investigation. Since it is a Seveso company, this survey will be conducted by the Major Accident Prevention Control Directorate of the Directorate General Occupational Well-being Control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the steps you have taken. Differences in treatment of women cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u81	Dear colleague, we are well aware of the International Labour Organization (ILO) study on purchasing power. However, there are important methodological remarks to be taken into account in drawing conclusions. First, the ILO compares the average wage over time. This is a very questionable way of measuring purchasing power over time. A change in the composition of employment may affect this indicator, regardless of the evolution of the purchasing power of the individuals concerned. If a labour market rather creates low-skilled jobs, the average income will decline, although no one earns less than before. On the contrary, new hires see their purchasing power increase sharply compared to a previous unemployment situation. Or, conversely, an economy that loses low-skilled jobs will see the average wage increase, while the number of unemployed is higher and there will be a clear negative impact on the purchasing power of the people concerned. Or even if the highest incomes fall more than the lowest, the average wage will fall, while most people, and certainly those who need it most, will see their incomes increase. In short, the average wage parameter is useful for international comparisons, but unnecessary to fully interpret the evolution of purchasing power in a country. The figures also include gross wages, which is by no means a sufficient basis for assessing the evolution of purchasing power. There is also a need to examine the evolution of the tax burden. In recent years, the tax burden on low labour incomes has decreased sharply and people have seen net wages increase. In short, the ILO indicator has many drawbacks which make it difficult to compare correctly. The best indicator for Belgium is the evolution of household disposable income. It is also a gross figure, but it takes into account the total disposable income of households in which, as you know, labour income has increased more in recent years than other sources of income such as wealth or business income. Mrs Thémont, here I have all the figures for the last few years concerning the gross disposable income of households. If I can, I'll send them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u82	Minister, thank you for sending me the documents. It is true that we discussed this last week. I was reassured to hear you say that some groups are going to be helped. You talked about job students, flexi-jobs, temporary workers, and also people with disabilities. As I told you last week, it's a good start. But it must also be seen that poverty affects many people in Belgium. Purchasing power, when the crisis comes out, will be affected. This is already the case, since there is an overall decrease in household income for those who are economically unemployed and for those who are self-employed at a standstill. It is true that the recession will also affect activity, as will the bankruptcies that are likely to take place in the coming months. I do not want to be alarmist, but the situation will be difficult and many Belgians still - and there are already many - would risk falling even more into precariousness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u83	Madam Chair, Ms. Thémont, the federal government has taken several steps to support businesses and self-employed people who are suffering economic losses as a result of the coronavirus epidemic. In addition, it has joined forces with the National Bank of Belgium and the financial sector to maintain loans to individuals, self-employed and businesses. For their part, the Regions have also set up aid for enterprises and self-employed persons, with investment policy falling within the competence of the regional authorities. Of course, I welcome these efforts. Moreover, the crisis measures introduced in the field of employment are not only intended to enable health provisions to be applied, but also to ensure a faster recovery of the economy. As such, the allowances function as automatic stabilizers, which compensate for the loss of income resulting from the temporary cessation of certain activities. Temporary unemployment means that for the moment the number of redundancies and the increase in unemployment remain very limited because the alternative of redundancies would involve much higher transaction costs for employers and workers. In addition, it facilitates the return to work and reduces the loss of income and consumer confidence, thereby limiting the decline in demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answers. The health crisis will have socio-economic consequences that will far exceed the presence of the virus in our society. An increase in the unemployment rate has already been announced, along with the financial difficulties that companies will face after the crisis. According to the IMF, Belgium must expect an additional 100,000 unemployed. If companies delay their investment now, it may also have a direct impact on the long-term hiring rate, thereby prolonging the increase in the indeterminate unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u85	Mrs Verhelst is not present; her question No. 55005516C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u86	Madam Minister, in order to deal with the lack of seasonal workers, temporary unemployed people can apply to help the vital agricultural and horticultural sector out of need. However, agriculture and horticulture companies are once again concerned about a shortage, as the forthcoming strawberry harvest will require another 15,000 to 20,000 pickers. The path to employ the temporary unemployed will also disappear, as many companies have been re-launched. Madam Minister, on 20 April I asked you a question about the need for seasonal foreign nationals. You said that there were plenty of talks in cooperation with the Foreign Office to ensure the passage. There was also thought about joint transport to bring the foreign pickers here. Today it is 15 May and the vital sector is still hoping to get the permanent foreign seasonal workers here. For those seasonal workers, a COOVID-19 attestation provides that the pickers have the right to move within the European Union to picking areas outside the borders of their own country. However, that does not run smoothly. Often there is a problem at the border. The border police do not always interpret the documents properly. Consequently, seasonal workers are refused access to our country. Your Flemish colleague, Minister Crevits, said yesterday in the Committee on Agriculture that the procedures for admitting seasonal workers to our territory are fine tuned. Since there is still a shortage for seasonal workers in this vital sector, what action will the government take to achieve this? Are we thinking, for example, of the involvement of the long-term unemployed? One of the measures already taken was the extension of the card from 65 days to 130 days. If the shortage of seasonal workers remains, does the government intend to renew the picking card? Was a transport finally organized or is that still on the move? Finally, are the procedures for admitting seasonal workers into our territory fine tuned or are seasonal workers still being stopped at the border, although they do have the appropriate documents on them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis has led us to a number of things, such as closed borders, fear of workers and difficult journeys, fewer seasonal workers from Eastern Europe to our country. The federal and regional governments have made every effort to ensure that sufficient seasonal workers can work in agriculture and horticulture. You have already referred to a number of decisions, such as the possibility for temporary unemployed to work as a seasonal worker while retaining part of the benefit, and the doubling of the number of days that can be worked under the seasonal worker's statute for this year. With the initiative Help the VDAB harvest, the Flemish government has increased efforts to lead jobseekers to the sector. Recently, the Federal Government has approved Mr Ducarme's proposal to allow wage-earners to earn their living as seasonal workers. In addition, it was necessary to clarify to the security services the conditions under which seasonal workers can enter the territory. I would like to stress once again that the government has supported the communication of the European Commission that the free movement of workers, and in particular of seasonal workers, remains a pillar of the single market. In order to ensure the correct course of events, opinions were requested from CELEVAL and ERMG. This ultimately resulted in confirmation by the Minister of the Interior that seasonal workers can travel to our country under the conditions defined by ERMG. A seasonal worker must be able to submit a certificate from his employee on arrival in Belgium, all social-disability measures must be complied with and the employer must provide for the necessary precautions in the performance of the work and during movements. The performance of a prior test is not yet possible in material terms. This is now the subject of agreements between the social partners. By Prevent Agri, a structure set up by the social partners in agriculture and horticulture, clear teachings have been established in connection with the housing of seasonal workers. Education is a matter of concern to employers. They were not laid down in a sectoral protocol, but due to the paritary nature of Prevent Agri, the instructions were also borne by the social partners. Mrs Samyn, you are asking whether certain measures, such as those relating to the pick card, will be renewed. I said last week in the debate that I asked the sector for figures to check which of the different solutions we have provided is being used. We will therefore consider, on the basis of needs and figures, whether we will extend the measures in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Despite efforts at federal and federal level, the vital sector continues to raise the alarm. The agricultural and horticultural companies and fruit growing deserve all the help they can get and need. There are still many hands too short when planting, harvesting and sorting fruits. As far as the use of additional domestic forces is concerned, this can be considered even more broadly. An initiative that certainly supports the Flemish interest is the extra involvement of the tailor-made companies. As far as the foreign seasonal pickers are concerned, the agricultural sector is in full control because the restrictions on travel have prevented many foreign seasonal workers from travelling to our country this year. It is therefore regrettable that, due to misinterpretation and miscommunication, it has taken weeks before the foreign seasonal pickers have reached their place of work. It is incomprehensible that this could not be better coordinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u89	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There have indeed been many problems: seasonal workers themselves thought they could come to Belgium and employers thought they could rely on them and that they had the right documents, but they were still stopped at the border. I hope that these problems have now been resolved by consultation. I am very pleased that there has been some concern in the sector of education at sectoral level for the accommodation of seasonal workers. Social distancing during the performance of the work is one thing, but most of the time the seasonal workers are also housed by the employer. There was a certain amount of concern among the workers about this, because when everyone, so to speak, enters each other's bubble, the risk of contamination also increases. If agreement is reached on this, it will be important to ensure that these agreements are also complied with and that they can be maintained subsequently, when problems arise, so that everyone, seasonal workers and other workers in that sector can work in safe conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u90	Minister, the current health crisis will certainly change our way of life. As far as employment is concerned, telework is very likely to become increasingly important within companies. Many Belgians are already very much in favour of this change: nine out of ten Belgian employees and executives say they want to work at home from one to three days a week, and six out of ten want to be able to telework two days or more. In particular, they believe that teleworking represents an increase in productivity. Minister, many measures have already been adopted to adapt the work to the containment conditions imposed by the crisis. However, after two months of confinement, some teleworkers still do not operate under optimal conditions. Some companies would not have a telework policy, particularly with regard to tax and social security aspects, as well as the tools to be used in their function. In the absence of certainty as to the duration of this forced telework, do you not think that it is imperative to adapt the rules governing telework to the current working conditions? Are you in contact with the social partners to consider a reform that meets the needs of our teleworkers? What do you think of the proposal to increase to two days of weekly telework against one since the structural introduction of home work four years ago? Since the beginning of confinement, has there been any form of control to ensure that teleworkers operate in good conditions? If so, which one? Have abuses been identified so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u91	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, Mr Bihet, we can indeed expect telework to play a greater role in our future organization of work. Telework has long been regulated by collective agreement 85. There is also a regulatory framework for occasional telework. The telecommuting regulations therefore already provide a relatively comprehensive framework for employers and workers who wish to do so. It should be stressed that the organisation of telework remains a matter which is settled by mutual agreement between the employer and the worker. The National Security Council decided, in a first phase, to make teleworking compulsory in non-essential enterprises and to give priority to teleworking, where possible, in other sectors. Since 4 May, telework at home is no longer compulsory in non-essential enterprises, but is still recommended (cf. Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020). Since employers and employees had to quickly introduce this telework because of the exceptional crisis, it was a sui generis situation in which the parties were free to determine the conditions to be met. However, if this telework were to continue in the future, the parties should apply the existing legal framework on structural telework. This framework does not provide for a specific number of telework days per week. The frequency of telework must therefore be agreed between the employer and the worker. On the other hand, the current framework provides, in particular, guarantees for the worker with regard to working conditions, the provision of equipment and compensation for expenses. The employer must also inform teleworkers about the company's health and safety policy at work. Internal preventive services can control the teleworker's place of work, with the consent of the teleworker in the case of his or her home. As far as the future is concerned, I believe that we, together with the social partners, need to reflect on how we can reform the organisation of work in order to be able to respond to the new challenges posed by this crisis. A wider application of telework will be part of this. In this context, it will be necessary to assess whether the adaptation of the legal framework for teleworking is necessary. With regard to questions relating to social security and the tax aspects of telework, I would like to refer you to my colleagues in charge of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u92	Thank you, Madam Minister. Today there are about 5 million people working in Belgium, which makes 1.6 million people who, from home, allow companies to survive during this unprecedented period. Many employers and employees have discovered during this crisis that telework can be effective and should be maintained. Some ask for two days a week, as I said earlier. According to FEB, while 35% of companies did not use telework before the crisis, only 6% do not want to consider it for the future. I am glad to hear you say that you think that we need to think with the social partners and that we need a wider application, in particular by reviewing a part of the legal framework that currently cannot cover all the relevant regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u93	Thank you, Madam Minister. The problem with teleworking today is that many companies, administrations and workers were not ready. The telework that is currently being done is not the telework that will be done by the workers later. That's why I was proposing that you set up a working group to reflect on this workload at home. The companies slowed down, the children were particularly present with the parents who had to work from home. Today's telework will not be the same as tomorrow, as all these parameters must be adapted and prepared upstream. For this reason, a working group that would be responsible for thinking ahead of time on this subject would make it possible to set up a structural and efficient telework.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u94	Mr Anseeuw, if you wish, you can refer to your written questions. If not, you have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u95	Madam President, I will put my questions together without unnecessarily filling the ten minutes allocated. Madam Minister, the context of my five questions is the same, namely temporary unemployment, but my questions always highlight a different aspect of it. On 20 March 2020, among other things, it was decided to significantly simplify the procedure to apply for and obtain temporary unemployment in the corona crisis. Everyone supported that decision. It was important that measures were taken very quickly and very decisively in order to preserve the calm in our economic tissue and also to provide sufficient oxygen. In addition, many other measures have been taken. All these measures must, of course, also be subject to some sort of control, for example, in actual fact and misuse or even abuse. For this reason, I have submitted two questions on the instructions given to the inspectors and inspectors of the Department of Social Laws in corona time. Madam Minister, did the inspectors and inspectors have the task of working at home or not? What other instructions were given to the social inspectors and inspectors of the Department of Supervision of Social Laws? I have tabled the same question for the auditors and inspectors of the National Employment Service. For the Länder it is apparently not possible at present to obtain an overview of the persons in temporary unemployment. I understand, at least from Flanders, that the regions do not have that specific information, which makes it difficult for temporary unemployed to fill open posts. In certain sectors there is a great demand, well known to all of us, for workers. At the start of the corona crisis, I advocated in plenary that this question should really be answered, as this is necessary. I have tabled an oral question on this subject, since this does not seem to be the case. Madam Minister, how is it that the regions still do not have sufficient information on the temporary unemployed today? In what way will the matching between supply and demand continue between the RVA and the regions? How will rapid employability be made possible? Will guarantees be provided so that both employers and employees are convinced of the benefits and that employees can easily restart their original job? The latter is not unimportant either. Temporary unemployment, of course, also serves an important part to safeguard employment. How will it be prevented that a perverse effect is promoted, thus removing talent from companies that had to stop their activities or run on a lower capacity during the corona period? How can this be prevented? In the meantime, the double payment of temporary unemployment benefits has also come to light. An article appeared in De Tijd, which said that about 3,500 beneficiaries would have applied for benefits twice or more, but also received benefits effectively, because they had applied to several pay institutions. In the end, checks by the payout institutions on each other's payouts show that these practices have come to light. The payout settings themselves are mainly due to the ignorance of the proposers, but of course it is always difficult to judge the intention of an applicant or look into someone's head. I have a few questions about this particular incident, namely thousands of double payments. Firstly, what is the nature of the double applications? Are they members of several trade unions or are they members of a trade union and apply to that trade union, but do they also apply to the Auxiliaries? Secondly, how is it that not everyone, both non-members and members of a trade union, knows where to apply? After all, everything starts with that. Thirdly, what mechanisms exist today at the RVA to avoid such double payouts? An authority can of course say that everything will be recovered afterwards, but here and there the bird may have gone flying naturally and the money is lost. Fourthly, is it true that the double or multiple applications are due to ignorance, or does it now appear that other intentions and reasons may be behind them? Fifthly, have the necessary measures already been taken to recover the wrong payments? If so, what actions have been taken? My last of five questions is about the following. Madam Minister, you also expressed your intention in the Social Affairs Committee last week to submit a proposal for approval to the Council of Ministers to extend the temporary corona unemployment benefit until the end of August 2020. Indeed, it is to be expected that, with the re-launch of many economic activities, at a time when a great deal of additional measures and restrictions are being imposed, we will still face a very serious economic challenge. The targeted support measures within a specified period, which may also be retained for us in the months of July and August 2020, can indeed make the difference. I spoke with your colleague De Block yesterday during the plenary session, to which you were also present, about postponing payment of social contributions to the RSZ. In the meantime, it appears that these measures, including those relating to temporary unemployment, are also quite prone to fraud, which, of course, has an important part to do with the low threshold of the measures. I believe that this should be renewable until the end of August, but not under the same conditions as today. Madam Minister, under what conditions will we have access to temporary unemployment after 30 June 2020 because of COOVID-19? To what extent will these conditions differ from the conditions that apply today? How did you take account, when determining the conditions that would apply after 30 June, of the sensitivity of the measures today? Can you estimate the impact of the temporary unemployment measure on our economic fabric due to COOVID-19 and on employment to date? I've got over three minutes left. I think I have stayed well within the time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u96	Madam Chair, I have two questions and I will ask them successively; they are short. Minister, I first have a question about the risks of unemployment. A survey conducted by the ERMG shows that the recovery of the Belgian economy is hardly beginning, despite the fact that the automatic stabilisers and the measures taken at this stage have made it possible to compensate much of the first wave of shocks. The persistence of the crisis and the unoptimistic prospects for demand may, however, lead to a wave of redundancies affecting about one out of five temporary unemployed persons. Based on an estimate made by ONEM in March, just over 900,000 people were unemployed. This would mean that we would have some 180,000 workers at risk of losing their jobs in the relatively short term. This represents 6% of the total number of workers in the private sector. The same ERMG also indicates that the coronavirus crisis could cause structural damage to the economic fabric as a result of the bankruptcies of healthy businesses and a persistent increase in unemployment. So I had a few questions about that. Do you have a plan to help these people get back to work? If this were to happen, in what direction do you see the discussion about the financing of social security? Do you plan to activate capital to help solve this crisis? My second question is always about employment, with the recovery of the economy. The number of redundancies in the first and a half months of the coronavirus crisis appears to be relatively low. It even shows a one-third decline between mid-March and the end of April, compared to the same period last year. This trend is even stronger with regard to recruitment. The rate fell by 70 per cent for workers and 50 per cent for employees. These figures clearly demonstrate the magnitude of the crisis of the VOCID-19 on economic activity. According to two experts from Securex, government measures such as temporary unemployment and the nuisance premium have temporarily reduced the number of dismissals. But, according to them, the problem is likely to arise soon. The measures currently in force cease to have their effects with the resumption of economic activity. There are no new aid measures to deal with this wave of redundancies. How will you organise business support with the gradual return of economic activity and to what extent will the question of employment be included in this aid scheme? In the face of the risks of a massive wave of redundancies, should you not condition these redundancies on certain criteria, such as not paying dividends, not having made a great deal of profits, or not having evaded the tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u97	Madam President, Madam Minister, the crisis of coronavirus is a health crisis whose economic effects, at the start of this phase of deconfination, will begin to be felt. Many of us fear the redundancies and bankruptcies of businesses, independents and SMEs that form the backbone of our country's economy. This government has already taken a number of measures to support businesses to overcome this obstacle. But let us not be deceived, the most difficult, in economic and social matters, is undoubtedly still before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u98	Madam President, I also wanted to make sure that my question No 55006053C on the social situation of artists is transformed into a written question, in which case I would already say goodbye.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u99	Indeed, your question attached to Question No. 55006034C by Ms. Song is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u100	For the month of March, the Auxiliaries received 299.000 files. Even last week, so the second week of May, 22,000 more files were submitted for the month of March. These are files for which the application and the card were brought in for the first time. Of these 299 000 files, about 21,000 will never be reimbursed, 15,000 due to premature filing and 6,000 due to double application. In the case of double applications, it is not possible to determine which payout institution the social insured persons had initially chosen. All UIs cooperate constructively to resolve those double application cases. The benefits paid after mid-April concern files in which there was a problem. Three thousand temporary unemployed have been contacted personally on several occasions, but 1,400 people have so far not responded. There remain 1,200 complex dossiers, which still require specific treatment; 400 of them concern unemployed people who have provided an address abroad. For the month of April, 350,000 cases were paid between April 29 and May 12, which amounts to an average of 38,500 cases per business day. For some cases, CAPAC is waiting for the employer's declaration of social risk to proceed with the payment, but the payment of benefits for the month of April is almost up to date. To this end, CAPAC sends an acknowledgement of receipt to the social insured and an e-mail as soon as the payment has been made. For ongoing files, CAPAC proactively and individually contacts by telephone or e-mail. Where possible, bundled emails are sent for the same anomaly, for example for a problem with a name. Since the corona crisis, around 100 people have been deployed on the phone every day, even 150 last week. There is also a telephone self-service and an application "My HVW file" which also provides useful information. Complaints are usually entered online, but this can also be done by letter or e-mail. Since 1 May, the average response time is 3.5 days per registered complaint on the platform. The complainant shall always receive a notification of receipt and the HVW shall closely monitor each complaint. 132,983 employers reported temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus for 1,207,027 employees by April 2020, with an average of 14 days of unemployment per employee. Furthermore, I can already say that I will propose to extend the flexible scheme for temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus until 31 August 2020 according to the current modalities, but the government still has to decide on this. At the moment, I am looking at how we can deal with the transition from this system to the system of economic unemployment. This will also depend on the decision taken in relation to the prolongation of temporary unemployment VOCID-19 for force majeure. Controls on the application of temporary unemployment will be pursued in the same way by the ONEM. As for the other RVA staff members, full-time telework remains the norm today. This also applied to the social inspectors of the RVA who were employed during the first weeks of the crisis to complete temporary unemployment files or to answer questions related to corona-TW from everyone, employers, social secretariats and social insured persons. From 8 April they were able to resume on a voluntary basis the field checks. This means that social inspectors currently alternate work at home with field work. They have received instructions taking into account the current specific context. Firstly, control priorities were set and how they should be addressed. In this context, the safety measures and rules to be respected for the field controls were also included in these instructions. In reply to your specific question on the 2020 Action Plan, Mr Anseeeuw, I can assure you that the RVA will do everything in its power to fulfil and comply with its commitments. However, it is logical that the corona crisis will have an impact on a number of objectives because the focus is now essentially on corona-TW controls and because certain quantitative objectives simply cannot be achieved by the current context, e.g. x number of controls to be carried out in sectors that are still closed. The RVA conducts targeted administrative checks and field checks on the misuse of corona-TW. For this purpose, the RVA first identified possible abuses with the experts. Afterwards, the Datamining cell was enabled to make selections that may indicate abuses. These selected dossiers are further prepared and finished by administrative staff and by all social inspectors. In particular, for the double payments, 2.485 out of 560,974 concerned persons from whom the RVA has already received data received a double payment. This is about 0.4% of the total. In each of the cases, these are payments made by different payout settings. Such payments occur with each of the four payout institutions. For many temporary unemployed, it is also the first time they have come into contact with this. In times of restrictive health measures, this can cause increased stress in many people. Given these circumstances, we can assume that there is also an increased risk of errors. In the context of the verification process by the RVA, all payments made by the payout institutions shall be checked for any anomalies. The double occurrence of the same national register number for the same entitlement to a benefit is, by definition, intercepted in the execution of this verification process, after which the procedure for correction may start with a payment institution. In most cases, the payout institutions have already identified the double payments themselves and taken steps to recover them, usually through the compensation on the next month's benefits. Given the limited size of the phenomenon and its relatively simple traceability within standard procedures, there is no reason to believe that double payments result from reasons other than ignorance. It is the responsibility of the paying institutions to recover unduly paid amounts from the persons concerned. As regards the exchange of data between the RVA and the VDAB, I can inform you that on 7 April the RVA received a question from the VDAB to that effect. On 8 April the RVA replied that, in cooperation with the RVA, a project was launched at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security in order to transfer data on temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus to several institutions. This information is available and may be transferred by the KSZ to the institutions that request it and that have the appropriate permissions each month and for as long as necessary. The VDAB initially indicated that this solution seemed sufficient, but information gathered from the KSZ shows that the VDAB will not make use of this possibility. In addition, a specific scheme was introduced for the resumption of work by a temporary unemployed person in so-called vital sectors, in particular in the fields of horticulture, agriculture and forestry, thereby maintaining 75% of the benefit for the months of April and May during this work. This measure also applies to employees in SWT and employees in full or partial career breaks and time credits and may be extended for the month of June. This advantage is lost if the employee would not wish to resume work with his original employer. In that case, the worker is no longer involuntarily unemployed and the employer cannot declare temporary unemployment for him. In the order of special powers currently under preparation, a regulation is provided for to facilitate the transition from temporary unemployment for force majeure following the coronavirus to existing systems of economic unemployment for workers and employees. These systems will be temporarily relaxed until the end of the year to ensure easier access to these schemes. The aim is to use again from 2021, the current rules on economic unemployment as a force majeure for workers and employees. Mr Anseuw, as regards your question about the taking away of valuable workers by another firm, I can tell you that the employer cannot prevent an employee from terminating a contract of employment temporarily suspended for reasons of force majeure in order to work with another employer. In doing so, the employee must respect the normal rules of notice periods. If the employee does not do so, a fee will be due. The system of temporary unemployment and other support measures will maintain employment in the first instance. It is also up to the employer himself to determine what additional financial initiatives he may take to prevent his employees from going elsewhere. Finally, Ms. Moscufo, your question about the need to help people find work is a regional matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u101	Thank you for your detailed answer, Minister, although I am not entirely satisfied with it. You won't be surprised. I've already given a preposition in my question myself. You say that the conditions for extending temporary unemployment in July and August will remain the same. The conditions are so low today that the regime is quite susceptible to fraud. Until 8 April, the inspectors had to work at home, according to your reply. Until then, there were no checks on the premises. You say that it is difficult or little useful to control closed sectors. However, the question is whether they were actually closed. A form of abuse can take place there; on-the-spot checks can be useful. You say that the double payouts only account for 0.4% of the total, or a few thousand payouts. It is strange, however, that in 2020, while everyone has a unique number on which they can be identified, namely the national register number, thousands of payouts can still be doubled. If a double payout requires recovery, which payout institution should recover? How is that determined? The control of double payouts happens post factum, I've heard. This may have led the bird to fly when recovery is required. If the double declaration is discovered in advance, who should or should not pay out? From 8 April, inspectors will be able to enter the site on a voluntary basis. The safety of inspectors is, of course, extremely important, and I will not question that. However, checks are also important, especially at a time when the threshold of access conditions for workers to temporary unemployment is much lower. A minimum number of days worked is long overdue. In corona times, it must also not be demonstrated that the holding is in difficulty. I understand that this is still the case in March and April, and even in May. The extension of the measure to July and August requires a critical examination of possible excesses, on which more and more stories are emerging. It would be useful, from the beginning of July, to consider whether we cannot distinguish between, on the one hand, temporary unemployment due to force majeure, namely a company that really cannot work because it is not allowed to work, and, on the other hand, something more similar to economic reasons. I do not want to say that we simply have to apply the system of technical unemployment prior to the corona period from July and August. There is still a middle way in which in July and August a lot more flexible can be done than in precorona times. However, as it is now, without any lower limit worthy of that name, it is becoming increasingly difficult to control. I don't think that's serious anymore. The first phase in which we had to act quickly and decisively is now behind us. It's time to learn the first lessons. The necessary oxygen for companies to safeguard employment remains very important, but we must not be naive in corona times either. The crisis will last and reflect for a while and we cannot wait for the end of the crisis to adapt and refine things. However, the temporary unemployment scheme needs to be refined. As of today, it is theoretically possible, and smart people have already tried to recruit with a sleeping company with a view to the use of temporary unemployment. This is not being checked and cannot be checked; it must be kept to a minimum. A number of things need to be refined, without throwing away the child with the bath water: oxygen for the economy is extremely important. However, from July onwards, a system should be introduced whereby conditions are refined in a way that makes improper use and abuse more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u102	Madam Minister, you say that the services of the Hulpkas have been proactively contacting difficult cases, but this is not really evident from the many distress calls I was allowed to receive. It is very regrettable that workers are still waiting for their benefit before March. However, you promised the opposite. We are now two months away and many of these workers are now in the water. It can now be said with certainty that the failure of the Auxiliaries is a political responsibility. It is not normal that employees do not even receive confirmation of receipt when forwarding a file. It is not normal for workers who want to ask about the state of their case to have no answer. It is not normal that when an employee tries to contact him by telephone, there is no answer on the other hand. A government institution should have an exemplary role and should not continue to send people from the cabinet to the wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u103	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. You will understand that the problem of employment is of great concern to us. And your answers don't reassure me completely. Indeed, massive waves of redundancies are announced, as was the case this week with Brussels Airlines and TUI. Yesterday, in plenary, we told you that we do not agree with the way in which you react to these announcements. As far as we are concerned, we plead for measures which would cost the State nothing and which would be based on common sense. In our view, it is clear that a company that makes profits and evades tax must not be able to lay off. It is possible to put measures in place to limit the breakage. Today, social security spends more than EUR 1 billion a month on economic unemployment and precisely to avoid such redundancies. In the face of this situation, decisive policy choices will have to be made. That is why we have tabled a proposal on the table to ban dismissals temporarily. According to the ERMG, the measures to be taken to respond to the shock of unemployment will be decisive. If we want to avoid the workers paying for this crisis, would it not be time to turn to those who have the widest shoulders, namely the multibillionaires, by imposing a tax on big fortunes? Is it worth recalling that 75% of the population has already voted in favour of this tax? You have not answered my question on the financing of social security, whereas, as I said, the latter must raise more than EUR 1 billion. However, this problem was already of concern to the members of the Committee on Social Affairs before the crisis of the coronavirus occurred. And it must be noted that it is even more important today to think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u104	Mrs Moscufo, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u105	I'm finishing, Madam President. We have heard experts in committee who have told us that capital must be asked to make an effort to finance our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u106	Minister, I may not have paid enough attention. In any case, we had asked what the number of temporary unemployed for the month of April was, but I assume we will receive the answer in writing. It is therefore unnecessary to repeat one another. Even if temporary unemployment is prolonged, every effort must be made to encourage as many businesses as possible to re-engage workers and re-launch the machine. You said precisely that this measure had the virtue of serving as a bridge in times of crisis, but the work still needs to be done to get the economy back in motion. We will be vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u107	Madam President, I would like to respond to a number of things that have been said and a number of additional questions. Mr. Anseuw, you asked who decides who's being paid. The payout institution of which one is a member shall pay. If one has a file running at three trade unions or at the auxiliary cash and two trade unions, two payout institutions, then the payout institution of which one is a member will pay effectively, and the other will recover. So that's how it's going. However, I would like to point out something. Maybe I'm wrong, but in the reasoning you're building, you assume an employee with very bad intentions. In order to achieve a double payment, we need an employer and an employee. If we pay double, this means that the employer has submitted the application to different bodies and has also submitted benefits to different bodies and that the employee has transmitted his data to different bodies. We still have to refine the system, but we are convinced that the system will remove those cases. Unfortunately, that is only afterwards, but it is seen immediately. It is seen that payouts have been made to the same person. It also has a lot to do with the fact that a lot of workers and employers are now dealing for the first time with the system of temporary unemployment. We still have to see this confirmed by hard figures, but we feel that it is often about small self-employed people, for example those who work with one employee and who have never had to put someone on temporary unemployment. There are also people who are members of different trade unions and who can therefore also submit different dossiers, but afterwards, of course, they are filtered and only paid once and amounts are recovered. So it is not right that they are ribbedebie then and that there can be no more can be told. If payments were made in March, we do not think that people left the country in April. If they are members of a union, it will be withheld from the next benefit. I've given the figures, it's 1.2 million files. Today there are 2,400 to 2,500 double payments. I admit that some of them are intentional, but many do certain things today in ignorance. In my opinion, with the prior checking of the data and the recovery, we do a correct job. Mrs. Samyn, you mentioned the payments from the Auxiliaries. We have often had this discussion. You say it is a disgrace that there are people today who are still waiting for the money from March. I hope you heard me correctly, but this week, after 10 May, an application was submitted by employers for benefits in March for 22,000 people. I do not know how the Auxiliaries can pay people who we do not know today that they exist and are temporarily unemployed, if the employer does not say today that his people are temporarily unemployed. We cannot pay to someone whose job we do not know is temporarily unemployed. Those 22,000 files that were submitted for the first time this week will also be paid out in a smooth way, but until we have the data, we will not be able to pay. Secondly, with regard to the discussion on temporary unemployment due to corona and the transitional measure, I note that we have started with another system. We have been begging employers and employers' organisations to simplify the system. We are well aware of this, and I fully agree with you that we will have to move back to traditional systems at some point. That's what we're gonna have to do. By "traditional" I mean the normal force majeure of force major and the normal economic reasons. We will also have to do so with a transitional period. The political debate, which we still have to hold within the government, is about whether we should make the transition on 1 July or 1 September 2020. The employers are already asking us to do this only on 1 October 2020. So they ask for it to be done later. My hesitation is to make the switch on 1 July and not on 1 September 2020. We are getting clear figures that even on 1 July 2020 more than 100 000 companies will still have some of the workers in temporary unemployment. This means that, when we come to a transitional measure, we need to re-apply hundreds of thousands of companies in July 2020 and start a procedure to move to the classic system. To us, that's too early. If we were to do this by 1 September 2020, we would feel that the number of hundreds of thousands of companies will be very reduced and that many of them will not be affected. They will therefore have workers at work, and no longer in temporary unemployment. At the end of the holiday period we will be able to bring down this number of hundreds of thousands of companies. We will then have to go through a transitional period with that number. The companies concerned will have to be able to demonstrate that there is economic unemployment and that there are economic reasons. They will also have to apply for this economic unemployment. We will have to implement these transitional provisions properly. I follow your reasoning. The question is, however, when will the switch be made? I feel 1 July 2020 is too early and 1 September 2020 is a better period. After all, we feel the need in many sectors. Mr Anseuw, I was in contact this week with a number of West Flemish large SMEs, whom you know very well. For example, they place windows and doors in homes and work in private land consolidation and social housing projects. All private landlords will be working in June-July 2020. The yards are starting up again. We see that social housing relocations will not start in 2020. These companies will put people into full employment for 2 or 3 weeks, after which 70% or 80% of employees will be temporarily unemployed again. Then there are another 2 weeks of full employment and 2 weeks of temporary unemployment. There is a clear demand to maintain flexibility. The political debate on this issue must take place, as no decision has been taken today on the date, 1 July or 1 September. The transitional period must come, but my feeling is that there will still be too many companies asking for it on 1 July. The desire to include this in a transitional period would, we feel, not be the appropriate administrative time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u108	Madam Minister, thank you for the additional explanation. I would like to go into two more points. Firstly, as regards double payments, who is to be recovered? You say that it is the payout institution where one is a member, but you yourself indicated that one can be a member of two payout institutions. Then, of course, we get the same question. I continue to find it incomprehensible that in 2020 it is still not possible to discover, on the basis of the unique national register number before the payout, that there is more than one application from one particular person and that we have to wait until after the payout. I'm not making an intention process here, and I'm certainly not saying that everyone is too bad faith. Whether it's about employers or employees, the majority of people are in good faith. However, more and more stories of abuse are emerging that undermine the basis for these much-needed measures. That's my big concern. Avoiding double payouts should be technically possible. A number of birds will have flown by now. You say that they will not all go abroad immediately, but there are 4,000 applications from abroad. Those people are already there. I am not saying that all those who are abroad are in bad faith, I just want to point out that this is not an imaginary problem. I do not believe that this is the majority of the applicants, on the contrary. The abuses have to come out, if only in order to preserve the basis of support. Secondly, as far as this transitional period is concerned, I am glad that you agree with me that there will have to be a change at some point. I have already made it quite clear that this is not a transition, as far as I am concerned, not a fault line in which we move from today to tomorrow to the traditional system. I said explicitly that this would indeed not be wise. However, I have called for a number of refinements to take place from 1 July. I didn't say we should go to the classical system precorona with that. I do not think that would be appropriate. I don't want the impression that I meant anything else. I do mean that a number of things need to be refined, without going straight to the classic system. Of course, there will still be a number of problems. If everyone stays temporarily unemployed, everyone will take their holidays at the same time. That will be an additional challenge. I started my question by saying that July and August will be extremely difficult months. This period is even more difficult for most companies than when they had to close down overnight. There's nothing harder than a startup. Sales aren't coming in, but the costs are coming up. I am well aware of this, but there must be a balance and we must refine a number of things in order to avoid certain problems from 1 July. That's my plea. It is far from a black and white story, but it is important that this happens, because there are a number of excesses, there is improper use. The back door is wide open. I am not saying that everyone uses it, but it has to be closed, if only in order to safeguard the support for these aid measures. That's my concern. Hence my nuanced plea and my demand for a refinement of the temporary unemployment scheme because of corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u109	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that 22 000 more files were submitted by employers. I cannot get rid of the impression that there is something wrong with accessibility. I can only establish that. I'm really getting a lot of messages from people who say they've been in regular contact, nothing to hear, no answers to their questions and no knowledge of the state of play of their file. If, after two months, nothing or only part of one's money is put into the account, it is a matter of concern. Well, that's understandable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u110	Question No 55005877C by Mrs Lanjri, being absent, is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u111	Madam President, I have been distracted before. I thought I finished my day earlier. But no, I still have this question about the right to disconnect. Minister, our company is more connected than ever and the crisis of coronavirus will certainly speed up the process of digitalization because companies are increasingly using telework. However, the issue of well-being at work is now central, especially for my generation, which has known the digital tool since almost its birth. In recent years, work-related diseases have increased. Burnout, exhaustion, depression are just a few examples. Part of this increase in disease is related to "hyperconnectivity", i.e. an inability to dispose of technology. As politicians, it is our role to set a framework for controlling these abuses. This framework can also be an opportunity to promote a new right and, above all, to perpetuate telework. It therefore seems important to us to advocate for the creation of a real right to disconnect. For us, clear limits must be set so as not to interfere with workers' rest and leave. Hours of work are supervised in Belgium. New technologies, through the facilities they generate, cannot be countered. The balance between private and professional life is essential. Minister, what is the current legal framework for the right to disconnect? It seems to me that early bills had been introduced. What about it? In general, what support can the government provide to companies, for example methodologically, to successfully complete their digital transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u112	Madam President, I do not understand why these questions were not merged with the previous questions on teleworking, because they are on the same subject. Mr Bihet, the answer is bilingual because your question was attached to Ms Lanjri's question about the right to disconnect. A system of generalised home working is currently in place in many companies. In addition, posters are available on the website of the FOD to raise awareness about safe working during the corona crisis. One of these posters concerns work at home and stresses the need for a work-life balance, including making good arrangements with the manager and regularly disconnecting from work. In these exceptional times, a good balance between work and privacy is all the more important for the psychosocial well-being of everyone. This balance can only be achieved if there are clear agreements on the use of digital means of communication and the deconnection of work. The law of 26 March 2018 on strengthening economic growth and social cohesion already imposes an obligation to consult on this issue within the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work. Such consultation shall take place at regular intervals and in any case whenever the representatives of the workers on the committee so request. Concrete agreements can then be included in the labour regulations or in a collective labour agreement. If further rules or initiatives are still needed in this regard, I will certainly consult the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u113	Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with what you said, but we will certainly take an initiative to ensure this reconciliation between private and professional life. From the moment that a possibility of increasing teleworking days could be on the table, it seems essential to be able to guarantee the well-being at work by the checks that could be carried out, but also by clear rules that allow us to know when a worker is at work and when he is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u114	Questions nr. 55005977C by Mrs Gabriels, nr. 55006034C by Mrs.Song et nr. Mr. Bihet's 55006053C are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u115	Mrs. Slegers, your perseverance graces you. You've been in our image for a long time. Within the Task Force on Vulnerable Groups, several proposals are being examined to support the most vulnerable groups in our society who are economically and socially affected by this health crisis. In this time of crisis, therefore, we must take measures to prevent poverty from rising all at once. Hence the wide safety net that we have been working on with temporary unemployment and the right to bridge. However, we see that several vulnerable groups find their way to the OCMWs. This is partly explained by the fact that a number of people are experiencing a income shock while their fixed costs are at a higher level, adapted to their standard of living. With the three federations of the OCMW's, the VVSG, the federation of OCMW's, l'Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie and the federation of Brussels OCMW's, we investigate which profiles these new groups have. To solve the punctual problems of these new groups knocking on the OCMW's, an individual approach is best. The OMCWs look at the specific situation after a social investigation. For this reason, last weekend, the government decided on an initial additional subsidy of EUR 15 million. The survey with the OCMW shows, in addition to an increase in new clients, that debt problems will occur in the longer term as a result of more late invoices and the fact that people often first resort to their own reserves. The legislative proposal that I tabled concerning the postponement to 3 months of payment of consumer credits for families with income losses due to the corona crisis was therefore adopted in the Chamber last week. In addition, we continue to focus on food aid. For example, more than EUR 3 million was made available to ensure the continuity of food aid and hygiene products for the most vulnerable groups. The federal government has also allocated a budget of EUR 276 000 to food aid organisations and storage and distribution centres. Homeless people are also accompanied during this crisis period. 652,000 euros were released to extend the federal winter shelter in the Trierstraat by 2 months. This should also ensure that homeless people can continue to enjoy shelter as many other organisations close down. In the center in the Trierstraat 250 homeless people are taken care of. In this second-line federal shelter, the persons are tested on the spot, after which the infected persons are referred to separate centres, where one can stay in quarantine for 14 days. The cities of Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi also received a grant of 200,000 euros. This should allow them to open places where sick homeless people can be housed in a safe and isolated way. The federal government plays a supporting role in the care, housing and social support. In particular, it is the regional and local authorities who take this issue further to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u116	Madam Minister, the OCMWs are indeed saying that in April, for example, the aid questions have already risen by 20%, and that is just the tip of the iceberg. We note that the longer the duration of temporary unemployment, the more difficult it becomes for many families to make ends meet. You said that a lot of resources have already been made available, including for the OMCWs. I would like to thank you and your colleagues very much for that. You are a minister for the fight against poverty with a listening ear and know what lives among the people and organisations. I am confident that, if there are any proposals from the task force or the VVSG in the future, you will also take them to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u117	Madam President, Minister, this week, the testimony of a young pro tempore has been "buzz" on social networks. He worked as a shopkeeper for the Aveve chain. This young temporary worker was dismissed a week before being entitled to his CDI. He explains to us, in a very concrete way, the working conditions which he has experienced. He explains to us, for example, that he worked with an audio headphone in which a voice told him what to do: "Go get the Eurolette, go to aisle 31, fill the palette with X boxes of flour, etc." Every time he realized what he was asked to do, he had to say "ok" in that helmet. A job, actually, robotized, except it's not a robot that works, it's a human being. With this work organisation, the employer only increases the pressure. His boss was even up to the abuse of telling all workers that the one who would be too ill would be dismissed, in the middle of a period of coronavirus. Unfortunately, we have received a lot of testimony from temporary workers. This confirms what we have been saying for years. In the top 100 companies with more than 250 workers, there are the largest number of temporary workers. A fifth of the staff have an interim contract. In ten of these enterprises, more than half of the workers are under this contract of employment. Minister, how are you going to fight these interim contracts? In this period of coronavirus, many workers find themselves laid off while they are not yet entitled to their unemployment. Are you considering making the conditions for this category of workers more flexible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u118	Madam President, Ms Moscufo, during the period from February 1 to June 30, 2020, there are no eligibility conditions for temporary unemployment benefits. The days of temporary unemployment of this period are also assimilated when calculating the number of working days required to be admitted to full unemployment. I can also inform you that the Labour Inspectorate Control of social laws takes the fight against abuse of temporary work very seriously. Each social inspector is required to carry out a number of checks each year in temporary work undertakings on the basis of findings made by a user. In this context, control mainly relates to remuneration and the reason for acting work. Special attention is also given to large users. Inspectors examine, among other things, whether the number of consecutive daily contracts is proportional to the need for flexibility that the employer must demonstrate. Collective labour agreements Nos. 108 and 108/2 are the guiding principles for this task. The Directorate-General for Social Law Supervision within the Labour Inspectorate is endeavouring to increase the number of open-ended contracts and to reduce as much as possible the number of day-to-day contracts. The National Directorate of Labour Inspectorate is responsible for monitoring the functioning of works councils. Whenever its inspectors visit a company, the use of temporary work and information to the works council, under collective agreement No. 9, are systematically discussed with the employer and the secretary of the works council. Between 1 September 2019 and 31 January 2020, 500 companies were inspected in this regard. It appeared that 20% of them did not give any or too little information about temporary work to the works council. Mention should also be made of the provincial branches of the Labour Inspectorate. These inspectors mainly control foreign companies working in Belgium with temporary staff. Particular attention is also paid to possible abuses concerning illegal detachment or abuses by foreign temporary agencies. If you wish, I can provide you with the figures of temporary work checks by the Labour Inspectorate in recent years. I have a painting that I can pass on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u119	Thank you, minister, for sending me those figures that interest me. I hope you don't consider that there are no more abuses. You didn't say that in your answer, and I hope that's not what you think. Every night we applaud the workers who run the country. You will understand that most are really under pressure for greater flexibility. The possibility of calling backup interims only increases this pressure. We believe that there is a need for a much greater legal limitation on the number of consecutive daily contracts. It is necessary to remove the reason for insertion which, for us, is a system which derogates from the question of the trial period. It's actually a disguised trial period. We support the introduction of a maximum percentage of temporary workers in companies. We understand that information is passed on to works councils but the feedback we have from some trade union delegations is not in line with your information. Important work still needs to be done in relation to this information to ensure that works councils really do what is necessary. I would be interested to have your control figures because they still need to be accentuated. The sanctions could potentially be much heavier than they currently are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u120	Minister, we have already discussed the importance of workplace well-being inspection. We would like to obtain the most recent figures of the number of complaints received by the occupational welfare inspection regarding violations of measures taken in the context of the fight against coronavirus. Can you also give us the number of checks carried out in companies and the number of infringements found? To what extent are sanctions monitored?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u121	Mrs Moscufo, I have the answer here in Dutch, because you first sent the question to my office in Dutch and then in French. The 150 issues we had to deal with in two weeks were a lot of work. I don't have the translation. But I have the numbers. There were 1,523 complaints of which 994 were warnings and 105 were deadlines. There were 10 minutes and 48 companies were closed. I'll send you all the numbers. We will translate the answer and send it to you. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u122	You really don't have to apologize for that. We'll wait for the numbers you send us. I have not understood exactly when they apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u123	The period runs from 23 March to 11 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u124	Thank you. I will say one more word about the CPPTs, which should play a crucial role in this area. As I know this is not always the case, I will ask you again about it. Social consultation must be respected. When things go well, we don't need inspections. This is all the more important because, if deconfining measures are not respected in companies, we risk returning to a stricter containment - even if this is not our wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u125	Madam Minister, you may have seen or heard it, in France, the Inserm has launched a study to determine the typical profile of the person with coronavirus. There are already signs that more than 40% of serious cases come from disadvantaged backgrounds. One of the most serious assumptions of the study currently being conducted by Inserm concerns living conditions (for example, being with several people in a small apartment) but also the working environment. Being in a telework situation is much less likely than going out of your home to work as a caregiver, police officer, delivery officer or supermarket employee. These front-line workers are all the more vulnerable as at the time of confinement, many had to travel by public transport. Minister, is such a study under way in Belgium? Otherwise, do you intend to sponsor such a study? If so, have you ever been able to learn about it and see if there is such a clear link between precariousness and the risk of catching the coronavirus? Is there also a link between working arrangements (telework or face-to-face work) and the risk of catching coronavirus? Finally, should such a link be established, would you consider more special and important attention for the sick and insecure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u126	World Health Organization studies confirm that relatively everywhere, more poor people are affected by coronavirus. The same studies also show that the difference is lowest in countries where basic health care is accessible. The fact that some groups are more affected than others also depends on other factors such as housing, age or other conditions. Significant statistical links are not always direct causal links. For some groups, medical risk factors are more frequent than for others. The risk of poverty is higher in many countries for older persons than for the general population. This is not the case in Belgium. The poverty factor appears to be only a risk factor, while the real risk factor is not poverty but age. In short, care must be taken not to draw too hasty conclusions. It seems obvious to me that it would be better for such a study to be initiated by federal and regional health ministers as it all begins with medical risk factors and data about them are also in health care. Of course, these are sensitive data, which means that a study can only be initiated if privacy guarantees are included. In addition, it is likely to be necessary to see how such a study can be part of the research strategy of known knowledge centres, such as the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise (KCE). I am, of course, willing to collaborate in this study on the basis of my expertise. When we get the results, we will have to decide what we want to do with them. While the conclusion is that sufficiently accessible health care is important, let us not forget that high access to preventive and curative health care has been the ambition of successive federal and regional governments. I would like to point out that the social consequences of the current situation are closely monitored by the Vulnerable Groups Task Force, ECOSOC and the VOCID-19 Social Impact Working Group. Particular attention is always paid to groups that are particularly vulnerable during this health crisis because of their labour market position, family situation or socio-economic context.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u127	Madam Minister, thank you. The impact of insecurity should not be overlooked. We agree on the presence of multifactorial elements. However, the bullet should not be returned to the Minister of Health. As you said, if such a study existed, you could join it. It is also important to ensure the impact on front-line workers, many of whom are being talked about and who were the first to be affected. They will probably be for many months to come. We will therefore have to work on this public, to avoid it being - again - the first to pay for this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u128	Madam President, Mrs Leroy, on May 14, Royal Decree No. 23 was published in the Belgian Moniteur. It aims to introduce a corona parental leave from 1 May to 30 June 2020. This leave is based on traditional parental leave and offers workers, who have been on duty for at least one month, the opportunity to reduce their working time, with the agreement of their employer during the outbreak of VOCID-19 in order to care for their child or a child placed up to the child's 12th birthday. For children with disabilities, the age limit does not apply in most cases. Like traditional parental leave, corona parental leave can take the form of a reduction of half-time or a fifth-time of the normal number of hours of full-time employment. Taking one-fifth of the full-time parental leave will result in a reduction of one-fifth of the full-time pension, as is the case for traditional parental leave. The condition that the portion of a fifth part of the full-time plan always implies that it is not possible to simultaneously take two career reductions of a fifth in order to achieve a career reduction of two fifths. This condition applies in each of the two systems. The regulations on coronavirus parental leave do offer the possibility under certain conditions, and with the agreement of the employer, to suspend a traditional parental leave of a fifth in progress with a view to taking a half-time coronavirus parental leave. At the end of this period, the first will continue automatically until the end date originally requested, unless it has been reached during the parental leave coronavirus. Finally, the same possibility was taken up in Order No. 23 for workers completing a time loan or a career break. They may also suspend them temporarily under certain conditions, with the agreement of the employer, with a view to taking a coronavirus parental leave. At the end of the period, the suspended time credit will continue automatically until the end date originally requested, unless it has been reached during the parental leave coronavirus. In this case, the balance also remains available to the worker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u129	Minister, that was the first question, on cumulation. This means that if they use it for a month, the standard leave will not be extended by an additional month. He's interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u130	He's suspended. After the coronavirus, we can take the other remaining period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u131	The remaining period, but not another month?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u132	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u133	All right. It's delayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u134	You have an eight-month period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u135	It's supposed to end in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u136	You start on February 1st. On May 1st, you leave in Corona for two months. That means you've already taken it from February to May. Starting in July, you will continue your eight-month period in the other system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u137	All right. These are sensitive and sensitive information for parents. We don't want to give them information that would give them false hopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u138	I get a lot of questions. People who work at a fifth and have the current system say they can also go to the corona system, because the premium is higher than in the normal system. After that, they can continue in the system a fifth.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u139	Minister, this week in the Social Affairs Committee, we have examined the bill to remove the notice period for dismissals made before and during the period of temporary suspension of the performance of the contract due to force majeure related to the VOCID-19. After the government has rightly introduced economic unemployment, the situation has arisen where companies can put their dismissed workers out of work while their notice period is still in progress. Consequently, it is the social security which pays the severance pay instead of the employer. There was much discussion on how to fill this gap. We are pleased to have been able to make some significant progress on this subject. In the meantime, this new regulation is on the table with three categories: those whose resignation took effect before 1 March; those whose resignation took effect before 1 March and ended before 5 May; and those whose resignation took effect after 1 March and continues after 5 May. These three categories have different treatments. Why did you not immediately provide for better regulation of the notice period and severance pay when introducing these new unemployment rules? What are you going to do for the most disadvantaged of the three categories, namely those whose dismissal took effect before 1 March and ended before 5 May? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u140	In the present state of the law, it is indeed provided that the period of notice notified by the employer shall not cease to run when the performance of the contract is suspended on grounds of temporary force majeure. In the past, there was no need, since force majeure was rarely mentioned as a cause of suspension. For example, it was a force majeure due to fire or damage caused by a storm. As a result of the VOCID-19 pandemic, the temporary force majeure suspension is massively used, we have planned to provide by order of special powers that in the event of notice given by the employer before or during the force majeure suspension, the notice period would cease to run during this suspension. This measure has also been announced in Parliament. However, we then found that this measure was also included in a bill that was dealt with in this committee. Of course, I respect the right of parliamentarians to deal with this issue in the context of a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-15-55-commissie-ic178x.u141	Madam Minister, thank you for the additional information. Irrespective of all this, there is a category of these workers who not only end up with 70% of their wages, but also lose their jobs. I understand that the case of force majeure was very occasional at the time, but as a minister, you are responsible for this reality today, for not having been able to solve this problem. In the discussion we had in committee, we had just made an amendment to remedy this inequality of treatment for this third category and, therefore, we regret it.
