ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u1	Good morning, everyone. Welcome, Minister. We will start a topical debate on the crisis of coronavirus. We have until 12:30 p.m., maximum 12:45 p.m. since a VOCID commission starts at 1:00 p.m. Minister, I think you are from the Kern or the Council of Ministers. We have two hours for 66 questions, which is not huge. As I understand it, Minister, you have prepared a first comprehensive response. I would ask you to be relatively concise, since Members must be able to reply or ask supplementary questions. We'll see if we have time to talk to them today. Otherwise, it'll be for the next time. So I would ask you to limit yourself to an hour's speaking time, so that there is another hour left for the lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u2	Mr President, thank you for the flexibility on the agenda. There was indeed until now the Council of Ministers. I have received many interesting questions, but of course too many to answer separately. So I made an integrated answer. It is sometimes rather detailed, so I hope you find it annoying that it will take time, but then I can really answer the questions. I hope I have the time to do so. I would like to proceed fairly quickly, but it is the answer to the questions that have been asked. I suggest that you let me give that answer and that those Members who feel that their questions have not been answered will come back to it. To do that in order, I do need time to find the number of the question. If, immediately after the number has been mentioned, the question begins to be asked, I do not immediately find it in my papers. So I'd like to ask you for some time. Under these conditions, we can certainly start.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u3	That's good. Take it off for about an hour and we'll see how far we get. But at least there must be some time left for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u4	That's what I'm assuming. You must be able to do your job. It is up to the committee to settle the agenda, but it is best that I start by answering as many questions as possible. Since you ask me not to be too detailed, I would simply like to refer to the most recent published bulletins for questions on the epidemiological situation. There is one point I would like to make, namely that in the latest data we see a stabilisation of the number of people staying in an intensive care department. A stabilisation is better than an increase. But a stabilisation is nothing more than a stabilisation. It can still go all the way. If the infections resume, the numbers will rise again. If the infections continue to decrease effectively and in real terms, we will undoubtedly see that the occupation in our intensive care departments will also decline. But we should not be too sure about that. The only thing we now see is a stabilisation in intensive care. It is a stabilisation at a level which is very difficult for hospitals to handle. According to the latest data, we now have 1,452 beds taken. When we consider the number of non-covid patients, it means that we are actually above normal capacity. And we can only be above that normal capacity because the hospitals have cleared extra beds. The question to the hospitals was to keep 800 extra beds ready. A lot of additional beds were realized, but not all because they lack staff. I have yesterday's figures and I see that we now have about 550 beds for non-covid patients. That means we're a little over 2,000 together. The extra capacity is not 800 additional beds; there are several hundred. I do not have the exact figure; in any case, it remains a very difficult situation for hospitals. We can only hope that we can reduce the capacity utilisation of hospitals. Questions were asked about the distribution plan and how it works. I would like to remind you of the fact that on 29 October, in committee and in plenary session of the Chamber, a bill of several social measures was adopted, including a chapter 5 on urgent provisions on the management of the admission of COVID-19 patients to hospitals. That chapter 5 was important, because it made the spread of patients more enforceable. A large part of the transfers are arranged by the hospitals themselves within their network or within their province. The 112 plants and the PECC or Patient Evacuation Coordination Centre act where intervention is necessary. The active support provided by Defense, the federal health inspectors and the 112 plants has actually only been launched since the beginning of October 2020. That's pretty new, but it's working fine. Defence provides the PECC's bestaffin with a daily presence of at least one officer and one petty officer specializing in medical planning. The distribution plan also seeks to take account of the distance from the hospital of destination where possible for social reasons. Sometimes an available bed in a foreign hospital is located closer than an available hospital bed in your own country. That is why there is a transfer to Germany, even if there is still room in hospitals in Belgium. From 1 October to 8 November, 1,032 transfers were recorded in the Sciensano registration. At 526 of them, i.e. roughly half of them, the coordination of the PECC was activated. There were 25 transfers to Germany and there are also a lot of transfers across the language border. I have no reports of language problems that would have arisen as a result. Therefore, no initiatives have yet been planned to involve interpreters from our side. There is, however, a system of intercultural mediators, which is referred to in questions. However, intercultural mediators do not interpret between our national languages, i.e. not between Dutch, French and German; they actually bridge the language barriers and cultural barriers between members of ethnic minorities and care providers. With respect to delayed care, this is an important, sensitive and complex issue. Because of the epidemiological evolution and the increasing number of patients with VOCID requiring hospitalization, it has unfortunately become necessary to postpone regular care in order to ensure that the capacity of hospitals is not exceeded. The Hospital and Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC) of our Public Health FPS, composed of representatives from all authorities, the Ministry of Defence, hospital dome organizations and experts, monitors the situation on a daily basis and has developed a capacity plan for hospitals with different phases depending on the evolution of epidemics. It is therefore inherent in the expansion of the capacity planned and monitored by this committee, which has a regular and serious impact on all non-emergency regular care. This means that hospitals gradually eliminate the elective program by providing urgent and necessary care according to the following classification: first, activities involving intensive care; second, conventional hospitalizations that do not involve intensive care; third, day hospital surgical activities that do not involve intensive care; fourth, non-surgical activities in day hospital (geriatric, psychiatry, oncology, etc.).); fifthly, consultations, home-based hospitalization activities and mobile teams. It is imperative that all urgent and necessary consultations, reviews and interventions continue. All life-long therapies, such as chemotherapy, dialysis or rehabilitation, will also be continued. Hospitals are safe places to continue this care. VOCID care is clearly separated from regular care. VOCID and non-VOCID circuits in hospitals are therefore strictly separated and patients must be convinced of their safety and not postpone their own treatment or a planned consultation. The attending physician will be able to play a major role in this area. For further consultations, teleconsultations may also be used, where possible, to ensure that the patient does not have to go to the hospital. At the moment, we have no idea what activities are taking place in hospitals in real time. These data come to us via the Minimum Hospital Summary (MHR) according to the time limits set by law. So I don't have a view of real-time activities. The impact of postponing non-emergency care can only be assessed over time, based on available data. The aim is to avoid finding ourselves in a situation in which we are forced to postpone care. This goal can only be achieved through the broad application of preventive measures taken in the context of the pandemic within the population. It is too early to have data on the postponement of care since the beginning of the second wave. Unfortunately, the first data will only be available three months after this second phase. There were questions about the cost. The data on the amount of additional costs resulting from the crisis, including the scaling up of intensive care capacity, are collected through surveys organised by the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment in the months of May and August 2020. This information has made it possible to define three types of forfait with regard to intensive care: firstly, the forfait intensive care without respiratory support, secondly, the forfait intensive care with respiratory support and thirdly, the forfait intensive care with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The amounts of these intensive health benefits will soon be fixed in an ad hoc ministerial decision. The additional funding related to intensive care will be granted on the basis of the Royal Decree of 30 October 2020 laying down the conditions for granting an exceptional federal financial intervention to hospitals in the context of the covide epidemic. That royal decree was published yesterday. For this intensive care, funding is granted on the basis of the number of covid patient days. That's what we're getting from Sciensano's data. On my question, the administration is preparing the legal basis in order to be able, if necessary, to grant advances on a federal concession to hospitals. The granting of advances ensures that the covid crisis does not jeopardise the continuity of hospital operations. We will ensure that this mechanism can be used as soon as it becomes necessary. The intermediate centres are the centres which, within the framework of the VOCID-19, are established by the federated entities, after approval by the Governor. They temporarily house patients who have been sent to them after hospitalization, or who have been sent to them by a triage and sampling centre or by an emergency department, and who, for the reasons that have been exposed, cannot immediately return to their normal living conditions. Royal Decree No. 20 on temporary measures to combat the VOCID-19 pandemic and to ensure continuity of care in compulsory health care insurance provides, in Title 4, Chapter 1, for funding through INAMI for these intermediate care facilities. Intermediate centres may be set up in a hospital, in nursing homes in Brussels and Wallonia or in recovery centres (hersteloorden) or in isolated revalidation hospitals in Flanders. In these cases, it is the federated entities that intervene in the costs. We are therefore trying to respect the existing competences here. There are questions about the care staff. On 6 November, the law, which allows certain nursing activities to be carried out by persons who are normally not legally entitled to do so, was published. The temporary measure provided for in this Regulation to ensure that non-statutory qualified employees are ultimately employed is highly conditioned. Following the identification of an exceptional emergency by the responsible nurse or doctor, this will only be done within a structured care team with appropriate supervision and training. Certain complex services allocated exclusively to nurses are already excluded by law. The law also explicitly stipulates that the activities are entrusted as a priority to the persons whose training is closest to that of nurse, taking into account the complexity of the care and the emergency situation. In entrusting tasks, the coordinating nurse must take account of the training and competences of these new staff. In selecting new staff and entrusted tasks, the coordinating nurse will give priority to candidates with the best possibilities for carrying out these complex tasks. The care team in interaction with the responsible doctor or nurse will be able to formulate and follow a common policy. At present, we have no idea which institutions want to make use of this possibility. I was told by one of the questioners that they know about ambulances, nurses and healthcare professionals who offer their services to hospitals, which the hospitals are not going to go into at the moment. I have not heard this information myself, but I find it interesting to hear it here. It is up to the health care institutions themselves to determine how they make use of the possibilities provided by this law or other legal decisions. The law of 6 November 2020 provides that the King may extend the list of nursing activities which can only be carried out by persons who have the qualification, or, negatively, which may be carried out by persons who are not legally qualified to do so. In order to implement this possibility, an urgent request for opinion was made to the Technical Commission of Nurse Art, which is meeting today. This advisory body is composed of representatives of the nursing sector and the medical community. The General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB), for example, is represented. As soon as the opinion of the Technical Commission has been given, we will draw up a circular which will take account of the comments received. At the same time, I have proposed to the social partners a consultation on this subject, because the social partners, trade unions and employers have expressed concern about this new law. So there are two paths of consultation. I repeat that this new law provides nurses with a well-supervised and limited opportunity to seek assistance in the event that the arms are really lacking. It has already been said that, in any case, in the current crisis, a great deal of flexibility is expected from the nursing staff. The training does, however, provide flexibility because, on the one hand, there are far-reaching subspecializations and, on the other hand, a wide-ranging education is provided. For nurses there is a special professional title in intensive care with a specific training course. It requires a quasi continuous formation. That specialization will always be necessary. On the other hand, however, the basic training of nursing staff must be sufficiently broad and flexible, for example to allow a reorientation during the professional career. That reorientation may be there for personal reasons, but of course also to respond to changes in the question. Let me give you a well-known example, apart from the current crisis. Chronic disorders, like geriatrics, have become an increasingly important focus. Technological developments can also create other needs. The requested flexibility is not just about the more intensive sections. Training as a general nurse includes a wide range of competences to be acquired. In other countries, more and more talk is being made about acquiring capacities or opportunities for the further career. This approach also allows for relatively short-term support to be organised to intensively ensure appropriate activities in interaction with a care team and with clear procedures. With regard to samples taken by home nurses, I repeat, as stated in the previous topical debate, that the samplings in the context of the covid pandemic are currently being coordinated from the various triage and collection centres. Through them, the organisation, data collection, collaboration with the labs and funding is streamlined. In order to provide additional support to the centres, the RIZIV may conclude agreements with consortia of home nurses to provide nurses for the centres. If necessary, the triage and purchasing centres can also call on those nurses for steel collections at home. This is a temporary and exceptional measure, which could be worked out and rolled out very quickly. That was and remains important, to relieve the general practitioners. During the consultation the representatives of the sector in the Committee on Nursing Insurance have indicated their desire to maintain coordination from the triage and purchasing centres. Although I do not exclude structural anchoring through nomenclature change, my preference continues to be the current regime, with the coordinating role of triage and purchasing centres. I will respond in detail to your specific questions about the doctors in training, in the hope of meeting your concerns. In this situation, we need all available expertise and experience, and in that respect, the support of motivated candidate hospital doctors and candidate specialists in training is exemplary and highly appreciated. We must therefore protect the well-being and training of these people. First of all, the experience gained during this crisis is useful and in many cases can also be regarded as a training activity. The continuity of the training of doctors-specialists in training or ASOs and of general practitioners in training or HAIOs is therefore not interrupted by definition and the regulation allows for a certain degree of flexibility during the training course. For example, specific traineeships or experiences can be considered as part of the competences to be obtained. The competence for the follow-up of the training process and the internship plans lies with the federated entities, in particular with the recognition committees. Eventually, the final competences must be achieved in order to be able to award a full professional qualification to the candidate. Fortunately, new technological opportunities offer opportunities for easier theoretical formation and practical experience can be made up after the crisis, with delayed non-covid pathologies. A strike organization of the internships can compensate a lot after the crisis. The recognition committees are most likely to be able to show some flexibility, and the criteria for recognition should not be changed immediately for the time being. If, however, the recognition committees were to identify structural problems for the candidates, we would, of course, have to examine them. Royal Decree No 29 of 5 June 2020 relating to the assimilation of unforeseen internship periods of doctors in training under certain conditions, including achieving final competences, assimilates the clinical activity performed between 1 March and 31 December 2020 as part of the internship. I come to the protection of these young people. The rules on working time protect candidates in training. This is also necessary because they do not yet have the experience that makes many tasks routinely possible. The commitment and enthusiasm of the doctors in training must not result in them crossing certain limits themselves. In the case of individual internship and working time problems, a consultation between the candidate, the internship manager, the coordinating internship master and the recognition committee can solve a lot. As regards financial support, for doctors-specialists in training, the ASOs, a budget is foreseen for the reimbursement of the extra performance they have provided during the covide epidemic. This budget is part of the advances already received by hospitals in order to avoid liquidity problems, on the other hand, within the final statement of advances under the additional compensation granted to hospitals for the crisis period. The Royal Decree that regularises these detailed rules for granting exceptional federal financial aid to hospitals in the context of the epidemic was published yesterday in the Belgian Official Journal, if I am not mistaken. In addition to a fee for the additional services, the ASOs receive 250 euros a month on a flat-rate basis. For the general practitioners in training, I refer to the meeting of 12 October 2020 of the National Committee on Doctors' Funds. Within the National Commission, everyone agrees that for the HAIOs the same effort should be made as for the ASOs. The HAIOs have contributed more than their share by doing extra shifts, waiting and overtime or replacing sick colleagues. The RIZIV is currently looking at solutions to accommodate the HAIOs. Many volunteers offer enormous help in the healthcare sector for the benefit of the whole population. Because of the nature of the activities they perform outside their employment contract, volunteers are not registered as such in our system. So I have no data on the number of volunteers currently active in healthcare and the number of volunteers infected with COVID-19 during these voluntary activities. In the event of infection with COVID-19, the health care of volunteers is, of course, covered by health insurance. If they work alongside their voluntary service as an employed or self-employed person, they are entitled to a benefit from their insurance institution in the event of sickness. Furthermore, I intend to extend the sui-generis compensation scheme introduced under the compensation fund for the voluntary covid victims until 31 March 2021. So far, no applications have been submitted to that fund. The concept of occupational disease cannot be relied on for volunteers. The voluntary status does not comply with the guiding principles of occupational risk. The voluntary status is different. It is regulated by law of 3 July 2005, which currently only provides for compulsory insurance covering civil liability for the organisation. However, that law allows KB to extend the coverage of the insurance contract, in particular to diseases occurring during voluntary activity. We will have to think further in this direction if we are to protect volunteers, including volunteers from the Red Cross, specifically in this area. I'm getting to the test policy. You know, we've developed a testing strategy that focuses on the PCR tests. The PCR tests are, as it were, the golden standard for testing techniques. The capacity of these tests has increased from 4,000 per day in March to 72,000 per day and will increase further to over 110,000 per day in January. That's possible because we have an extensive network of over 100 clinical labs. In addition, by the end of 2020, we will have a significant additional PCR test capacity, with eight new laboratories, which we are funding federally. That's the federal platform bis. In another step, the antigen rapid test will be integrated into the Belgian test policy, which should reduce the pressure on PCR test capacity a bit. In a first phase, antigen rapid tests will be used for the screening of patients with covid complaints who are present at the emergency services of general and university hospitals, triage and purchasing centres and general practitioners. The tests purchased by the federal government will initially be used in that care environment. Taking into account the quantities available to the public authorities, we will establish selection criteria to determine which hospitals, triage and purchasing centres and general practitioners will first have access to these antigen tests. We are also further developing the logistics aspects to enable contact tracing via this type of testing. The antigen tests may also be used for the diagnosis of infections in individuals with and without complaints in the context of a cluster investigation in certain collections, other than care facilities but essential service providers, such as police or fire brigades, in education or childcare, in key sectors and essential businesses. In residential care centers or care centers, PCR tests remain the standard, but of course we always work on the basis of progressive insight. A number of pilot projects are also being launched to consider and prepare their integration into Belgian testing policy on the basis of their assessment in the long term. This includes, inter alia, a comparative study of antigen and PCR tests in a selection of residential care centres for staff or residents with mild symptoms or high risk contacts. In Wallonia, a pilot project is being set up to learn lessons for the future inclusion of saliva testing in the strategy and a pilot project on the use of detective dogs is also being set up. In addition, we intend to resume preventive screening with PCR tests of staff from elderly care institutions, disability care institutions, psychiatric care homes or specific departments in psychiatric hospitals. We are working on this planning with the Länder. The screening should be repeated in this case, since a single screening has little added value in medical science. We also consider when we can restart the testing of high-risk contacts without symptoms. The IMC is discussing this, but I do not want to anticipate the decisions. As regards the roll-out of the test platform bis, the labs of UZA, UGent, Umons, KUL and ULB have already started to analyse a limited number of samples. None of these labs have already arrived at 2,000 samples a day for the simple reason that the modified test strategy is our decision of October 19th, starting on October 21st, which means that fewer people register at the triage stations and also because not all triage posts have yet been switched to the new platform, because that brings with it new software and material. However, we are working hard on this. The adaptation of the test strategy therefore means the step-by-step addition of antigen tests for certain indications, but this has so far had no impact on the private laboratories carrying out the classic PCR tests. As regards the lead times, there has been a marked improvement in recent weeks. In the week from 2 November to 8 November, 267 000 tests were carried out in our country. At that time, the result was available in 68.6 % of cases within 24 hours, 17 % within 36 hours, 5.6 % within 48 hours and indeed, unfortunately, 8.8 % after more than 48 hours. These figures on the lead time are better than previous figures, but there is still room for improvement and that is also being worked on. We also follow this up on a weekly basis within the Inter-Federal Committee on Testing and Tracing. In my opinion, there is good cooperation with the RIZIV, the Committee on Clinical Biology and the FOD to appeal to each lab on its responsibility and to support the search for solutions to problems leading to delays. I'm coming to the antigen tests. The reliability of rapid antigen tests varies greatly from test to test and from conditions. In general, antigen tests are sufficiently specific, which means that a positive test can indeed be based on a COVID-19 infection, but they are less sensitive than the PCR tests, because some people who test negative on an antigen test still have COVID-19. Sensitivity is sufficient in persons with symptoms that have only recently begun, five days or less, and thus have high viral load in persons who are highly contagious. Sensitivity in non-symptoms is not known at all, but the few studies with antigen tests that have already been carried out show a lack of sensitivity. So we have to pay attention to that. No laboratory infrastructure is required for the use of antigen tests. The number of tests that can be carried out daily depends on the number of tests available on a site, the capacity to buy and the internal organisation. The rapid antigen tests will be reimbursed by the health insurance under certain conditions. To this end, a legal framework is in preparation. The legal framework will provide for the possibility of using rapid antigen tests outside health insurance under certain conditions, for example through an occupational health service. Those conditions include following the test guidelines or validated test protocols, communicating the results to Sciensano to enable contact tracing, carrying out the tests by qualified personnel and using the recommended test material. The federal government has already ordered about 400,000 antigen tests. An order for 100,000 tests was suspended following a German report on disappointing performance. We're investigating this case before we cancel the order. A public contract for 3.5 million antigen tests is also published. The European Commission also makes a budget available for the purchase of antigen tests, but there are no data yet on the type and number of tests to be purchased in that European framework. There is a project request for the use of search dogs for the detection of individuals with covid infection, submitted by a research group. It concerns people from the academic world, mainly the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Ghent University, with various actors working with detective dogs in Belgium, police, army, civil protection. They will build a biobank with scent samples of patients with COVID-19 and train 30 specialist search dogs. These are dogs that are already being used for the detection of explosives and are therefore highly trained. It's about a budget of 50,000 to 60,000 euros. Several countries and renowned research groups are already investigating the possibility of tracking COOVID-19 with the help of detective dogs and are in contact with this research group. If the results are positive, the dogs could be deployed at airports or larger events where they could efficiently screen larger groups of people. We await the results of this project first. Then I come to the questions about the weekly testing of the population. PCR capacity in Belgium is high compared to other countries, but weekly screening of the entire population using a PCR test is neither feasible nor desirable. In the future, smart screening strategies may contribute to the control of the virus, but progress needs to be made first with alternative types of samples, compared to the nose wiper, and alternative testing techniques.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I forgot to tell you at the beginning of the sitting that we will be using the same procedure as we did last time. In other words, all the questions put are considered to be put, in so far as the Member is present in the Chamber or via Zoom. That means that you will not have to repeat the questions - we do not have time to do so anyway - and the number will have to be mentioned, as we sometimes did. As the Minister himself said, if you refer in your reply to a question or have an additional question to which he still has to answer, you must repeat the number. Minister, I would ask you to stop at 11.45 a.m. at the latest. After you have completed, I will give each Member two minutes for a reply and we will see if there is still time for a short reply from you or that will be for another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u6	What about travelers? I repeat that passengers travelling to Belgium by plane or boat or by another means of transport longer than 48 hours abroad must fill in the passenger locator form. If you return from a pink zone and do not fill in the selfassessment tool, you must quarantine for ten days. If the returning traveller does enter the tool and the result is favourable, he or she should not be quarantined. The Ecolog laboratory, which operates at the national airport, is an independent laboratory, which is not connected to the national platform bis. That's why that lab can take tests from departing travellers at the expense of the travelers themselves. Thus, according to the current test indications in Belgium, returning travellers are not tested in the current state of our test strategy. Contact tracking. I can give you some indicative figures of the situation on 6 November. Index patients, i.e. confirmed patients, are reached up to 90% by phone. For high risk contacts, a system was developed whereby they are contacted at a maximum of 97%. That is a high figure, but let me explain how that goes. The preferred option is a telephone contact, but if the influx of tickets for infected persons becomes too high, as we have experienced in recent weeks, then a region can decide to switch to a text message. That notification shall indicate that there has been a high risk contact and the person concerned should be quarantined for 10 days. Then there is a second text message with a code to download a quarantine certificate yourself if necessary via the website mijngezondheid.belgie.be. In this way, maximum number of infected persons and high-risk contacts have been contacted throughout the last few weeks, including at the highest peak of the epidemic we have seen recently. I believe, Mr President, that this is good news in itself, but, of course, improvement is still possible. The necessary scaling-up of the number of call agents has not always been timely in some regions. That problem is at the moment off the job. This remains a focus for the Walloon Region. Further stabilisation of the IT platform is also under way and the necessary steps are being taken to link the use of rapid testing to the tracing. In addition, there is the complementary tool of the Coronalert app. That app has been downloaded 2 million times. That number's stagnating a little bit. Each of us should make an effort to bring that app to the attention wherever he goes. Psychological well-being. On 28 October, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health adopted a coordinated approach to the psychosocial well-being of health professionals. We are also rolling out a plan to ensure that 1,500 full-time units can be made available to psychological aid workers in the foreseeable future. This complements and strengthens existing supply in the communities and regions. This plan is currently the subject of consultation in the Inter-Kabinette Working Party on Mental Health at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Of course, we will also discuss this with the actors involved. In order to promote the mental well-being of children and young people as a result of the crisis, the first-line psychological function has already been made accessible to children, young people and their families. This is an additional offer of help for rather mild emotional and social problems or behavioural problems, but not unimportant. In the case of more complex problems, reference can be made to specialised forms of mental health care. This is an extension to the already existing offer that is being realised through the mental health networks for adults. The mental health networks for children and young people provide in each province a specialized crisis offering consisting of mobile teams that can come at home or elsewhere and beds with intensive framing through psychiatric and general hospitals. The aim of extending the first-line psychological aid is partly to ensure that fewer young people enter the specialised supply of mental health care. There is historically a kind of pyramid in which the base, i.e. the first line, is not sufficiently developed. As a result, the prevention, detection and handling of mild problems are not sufficiently developed, while the highly specialised care is highly developed. The aim is to prevent young people from entering specialist care. My services in the Committee on the new mental health policy for children and young people, abbreviated COMGKJ, are permanently in consultation with the actors in mental health care and adjacent sectors. The aim is to follow the policy well through the consultation process. The Committee makes recommendations, which we discuss with colleagues from Health at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. We will conduct specific consultations on all initiatives with the whole sector. In any case, we need to focus more on preventing mental problems. That's what all my colleagues want. We must also give due consideration to the issue together in the IMC, including through general motivating and informing campaigns. In the case of vaccinations, doctors, nurses and midwife, who have been certified before 1 January 2018, can currently administer vaccines in Belgium. Depending on the staffing capacity and workload available, which is, of course, linked to the epidemic, an extension of vaccination authorisation to other professions can of course be considered. Mr President, the debate on vaccinations has begun. She's gonna be crucial. The vaccination campaign will test our ability to achieve a real solidarity effort with all the governments in this country and with all the actors. A lot of delicate and difficult issues come to mind. However, we will do the best we can. We held a first discussion on the subject at the IMC on 11 November 2020. We have already gone over all aspects. It's about purchase, preservation, distribution, communication and administration. The ambition is for us to vaccinate 70% of the population in the acute phase of the pandemic and then to roll that special vaccination campaign into the normal vaccination programme. At the present stage vaccination should preferably take place on a collective basis. The people need to be grouped together. We need to think about how best we can do that. The covid vaccines of certain suppliers are expected in multidose vials, usually 10 doses, to be administered on the same day. Individual delivery, as is done with conventional vaccination campaigns, is much less evident. So far, we are assuming that we will have a voluntary vaccination campaign, in which we will have to convince people. Quite a few of these vaccines have a two-dose schedule, usually with a four-week interval. The second dose should not only be administered, but should also respect the four-week interval. Of course, it is not a matter of one minute, but one has to be quite precise in respecting that intermediate period. It is also necessary to provide for the registration of vaccination, otherwise it will be chaos. So far we have assumed that we have a good system in Flanders, Vaccinenet, and that we could make this system available to all entities. You have also read in the press that transport is much more difficult for what Pfizer announces than for what, for example, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson announce. However, there is still a great deal of work to be done. The vaccines are being developed rapidly but validations and authorisations are still needed. Surveillance activities should also be set up. That is why I am extremely cautious in my public statements, both about the timing and about the impact we can expect. I think we should be very careful. There is no doubt that vaccines are the solution in the long term, so there is hope. Science brings the solution, but when it comes to how much and how quickly that will happen, I advocate great caution. A task force will be installed so that we get an optimal collaboration from the different entities. The task force will be an integrated task force led by a powerful and competent personality who will work out a single policy with all those responsible and actors. They also asked questions about seniors and people with comorbidity. The clinical trial should indeed include those people. However, the heterogeneity of the risk groups does not allow all cases to be represented in clinical trials. So it's not going to be easy. The FAGG is preparing enhanced surveillance to monitor the safety of the COVID-19 vaccines. This in turn allows additional information on the safety of those vaccines to be collected over a longer period of follow-up and to include populations that are not represented in the clinical trials. The enhanced surveillance can also confirm the safety profile of the COVID-19 vaccines in the vaccination campaign. I'm gonna follow up on flu vaccination. That is a story we have discussed here a few times. It's not an easy story. We provide 2.964.854 flu vaccines, on the head. On 2 November 2,759,609 vaccines had already arrived at the pharmaceutical companies, of which 2.329,174 were distributed to wholesalers and pharmacists on 2 November. The remaining 205.245 vaccines are still to come out of the production or release process and are expected in the course of November and December. The FAGG is in close contact with the pharmaceutical companies concerned and regularly examines the possibility of making additional vaccines available to the Belgian market. Unfortunately, this is not possible so far, as there is not only a shortage in Belgium. The general shortage of flu vaccines has been discussed several times at European level. Don't be alarmed, there are 21 Member States that are experiencing or expecting a shortage of flu vaccines today. The fact that we are going to introduce additional vaccines is not a realistic piste today. The FAGG asked about the stocks at the pharmacies for the public and at the hospital pharmacy and about the number of vaccines already delivered, both the vaccines for individual patients and the vaccines for groups of patients ordered by written request, for example in occupational medicine. The FAGG has already given instructions to the occupational health services to report stocks of vaccines intended for the vaccination of persons not belonging to category A of the target groups. We want to know what is still present in the occupational health services which are not intended for that target group A. You know that we now want to focus fully on category A. After evaluation, we want to allow vaccination for persons in category B at a later stage. The second phase, aimed at the rest of the population, has unfortunately been cancelled. There were also questions about the treatment for COVID-19. Since March, clinical recommendations for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in our country have been formulated by a working group of clinical infectiologists in collaboration with specialist doctors from other disciplines and scientists, including experts from Sciensano and the FAGG. The recommendations have since been updated several times and can also be consulted on the Sciensano website. The website of Sciensano also contains a recommendation on the approach to the respiratory treatment of hospitalised patients, which is also coordinated by the FAGG. The evolution of the patients treated depends on a huge number of factors: the patient's health at the time of ingestion, the severity of the disease, the diseases that the patient has suffered before, the age as an important risk factor and many other individual characteristics. These characteristics differ between and within hospitals during the epidemic. So it is very difficult and, I think, risky to compare rough mortality rates between hospitals, because that could give a very wrong picture of reality. Sciensano conducts analyses to determine the effect of the various factors and treatments on the evolution of patients in Belgium and regularly discusses this with the health authorities. For example, Sciensano has also studied the effect of hydroxychloroquine treatments in included patients in Belgium. Based on the clinical hospital data collected, Sciensano reports that 7.4 % of the enrolled patients receive invasive ventilatory support, i.e. the so-called intubation. The proportion of patients receiving oxygen is being collected, but I must confess that this is not being filled in sufficiently, which means that we cannot make many representative statements about this. Loss of smell is a specific symptom of contamination with VOCID-19. Examinations related to smell are currently not reimbursed. The surgical working group of the Medical Technical Council (MTC) of INAMI has examined the possibility of this reimbursement at the meetings of 8 January and 3 September 2019 and has decided not to take any measures to refund the smell tests. Indeed, it has been found that there is no evidence to demonstrate the added value of odor tests from a therapeutic point of view for these patients. The CTM Surgery Working Group is of the opinion that no nomenclature should be created to develop a diagnosis if this is not part of effective therapy. There were also again questions about the control strategy and the barometer. I will not talk about the exit strategy anymore, because that is poor use of words and absolutely avoidable, Mr President. I'll try never to use the word exit strategy again. What we stand for is a control strategy. You will not hear any announcement of measures between now and 27 November. To be honest, I find the media speculation, including very good experts, about what we could do at Christmas absolutely premature. I hear very good experts and experts on questions in the media about what we will and will not be able to do at Christmas. Those are mere speculations. I won't risk it. Anyway, there won't be a single decision in the next two weeks. This afternoon we have a meeting of the Consultative Committee, which is merely an evaluation of the epidemiological situation. It's purely informative. I assume that a next Consultation Committee will be held in 14 days' time. That's an important meeting. I hope that within 14 days we will be able to reach an agreement on a control strategy. On the basis of the facts at that time, we may be able to decide what we will do after 1 December, but perhaps we will not be able to make any new decisions. I do not think that we will be able to take decisions at that time on what we will do after 13 December. So it is driving and looking around, very careful, naviguer à vue, but based on a strategy. We need to define that strategy. That strategy is a strategy that sets objectives, as well as alert levels, with dangerous situations that we must avoid and conditions that create a safe haven. What these conditions are and how we define the levels of danger is currently the subject of discussion. That is why I have repeatedly said that we are waiting for a barometer. The barometer that was in development in August and September is not really adapted to the current challenge. The current challenge is to get out of the peak of the second wave, get into a safe haven as quickly as possible and avoid a third wave. There is a consensus growing that the half-finished barometer with four different levels, and the idea that one can relax or tighten level by level, is not really adapted to what we need today. But the inspiration of that barometer, namely that you need to be able to explain to the public what the perspective is, when we are in a safe haven, when we are in a dangerous situation and when action needs to be considered and in that way it needs to create clarity and solidity, but also hope, that inspiration is absolutely necessary. In that sense, the idea of a barometer is not buried at all, but we are thinking about how we can have a good instrument for what is now the specific task, and that is getting out of a second wave, getting to a safe haven as quickly as possible and avoiding a third wave. I get questions from journalists every day about what I'm gonna do at Christmas. I am not responding because we cannot now announce what we will decide on the basis of facts that we do not yet know. That is annoying for the people and for everyone who is in the debate, but I would advise everyone to speculate on that. There's no point in that. Mr President, I'm almost done. There were questions about the mink. The mink farming in our country is extinct. There are still eight active companies, all in Flanders. Since June, SARS-CoV-2 has been a reporting animal disease. In September, a first monitoring exercise, in particular a check on the presence of antibodies in the mink blood, was carried out in all active companies. All the results were negative. Since then, inspectors from the BFSA have taken a sample of five dead mink per farm every week to ensure proper surveillance. So far, the samples of those five dead mink per farm have all been negative. As far as animals are concerned more generally, so far the virus has only been detected in two cats in Belgium. Mutation is inherent in viruses and in itself is not alarming either. The mutation that occurs in the Danish minks is in the piece of DNA that encodes the so-called spike protein. The spike protein is one of the targets - but not the only ones - for the covid vaccines that are in development. It is now unclear to what extent the mutation affects the structure of spike proteins and what effect it might have on the effectiveness of a vaccine, but a possible consequence could be that the future vaccine is less active against this variant of the virus. This is also a European debate, and I also expect European input with opinions and findings on this issue. We must follow that very closely, but at the moment I think that our monitoring of this Flemish sector is in order and must continue. The scientific evidence on the possible impact of mutations on vaccination campaigns must be followed very closely. This is also the subject of consultation at European level. Yesterday there was an important European meeting on this subject, but I have not yet heard the result. In Belgium, the national reference centre in the UZ Leuven can perform DNA sequencing, the identification of the DNA of the virus. The results of that sequencing are charged in an international database. If SARS-CoV-2 is detected in animals, this sequencing must be performed. Mr President, I am going to shorten the answers a little. The ventilation is very important. We also encourage the Crisis Centre to give practical tips on ventilation in communication. On 10 November, the RAG, together with a team of 22 experts, considered whether children in primary school should wear a nose mask. The decision of this meeting is that this is not a recommendation. They don't recommend children wearing nose masks in primary school. The WHO makes it clear that the hypothetical benefits must be weighed against the disadvantages when children wear nose masks. The RAG says that the risk of transmission of the virus in primary schools should be reduced by other measures. They can be found in the maps that the schools have. The RMG, in which the various regions are also represented, with a view to their competences in the field of education, has now validated the recommendations of the RAG. Instructions on the use and cleaning of nose masks were cited several times at the press conferences. You can also find them on the website. There were also questions about vitamins. Some studies suggest a potential benefit of supplementing patients with vitamin D as well as other trace elements such as zinc or selenium to prevent VOCID-19, based on the observation of a correlation between sentile states and the development of a severe VOCID-19. However, there is no established evidence that supplementation would have a protective effect. Therefore, the usual rules for supplementation in case of vitamin D deficiency remain applicable. Nutritional recommendations, including on vitamin D and zinc, are included in the September 2016 opinion of the Higher Health Council No. 9280. Here we find all the information. Three professions are currently described in foot care. Depending on the type of care, they may or may not be subject to the restrictions imposed in the Ministerial Decision of 1 November 2020 to limit the spread of the coronavirus. I have to say that, because this has been the subject of discussion and some confusion very recently. Firstly, the profession of podologists is a recognized paramedical healthcare profession in which patients with foot disorders are examined and treated. Podology, like the other paramedical health professions, remains guaranteed and is permitted in the recent ministerial decision. Secondly, the specialist foot care professional or medical pedicure is not yet recognized in Belgium and is not regulated or protected as a paramedical healthcare profession. The specialist foot care provider provides a professional basic foot care, supplemented by skin care, with the aim of eliminating pain and discomfort associated with it. Specialized foot care goes beyond just the aesthetic part and can also cover essential foot care, for example in diabetic patients. If the medical pedicure is important for diabetic patients, then we will allow it, even today. That had to be clarified. With regard to the committee members who have asked questions about this, I can confirm that the FAQ has been clarified: the medical pedicure can therefore continue to work, if it is important, for example for diabetic patients, just like podology. That's preventively important. Thirdly, there are also aesthetic, non-medical pedicures. They're beauty specialists. That is important, but such a pedicure, which is purely aesthetically important, is currently not allowed by the ministerial decision. As far as tobacco is concerned, of course we want a non-smoking generation of tobacco products. I certainly want this, but we had to decide whether tobacco shops could remain open. That is the subject of the ministerial decision and I would like to refer to the Minister for the Interior. There is a logic in the decisions, namely that we do not want unfair competition between grocery stores and specialised retail shops, given the products that can be sold in the grocery stores. We also apply this logic to the tobacco sector. Mr President, I have spoken for a very long time, but I hope I have provided some useful information. If Members have any questions, I would like them to give me the number of the question and give me a moment to find the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u7	It is, of course, always a dilemma, Minister. We would like an answer to our questions. I will give each Member who wishes to speak two minutes for a reply or to point out his or her question. For the Minister please indicate slowly and clearly the number of the question to which you refer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u8	Mr President, this is an actua debate. The rule is that we can also ask additional questions and that it is not necessarily just about the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u9	That's right. There will only be relatively little time for the Minister to answer these questions. We'll look at this at the end of the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u10	Minister, you explained the test strategy. It is surprising that sewer water screening is not mentioned anywhere. However, it was announced that this would be about there now or already. It could also monitor 40% of the population, of course not on an individual basis, but to detect outbreaks. Especially at a stage when symptomatic people are no longer being tested, this is a very important instrument that needs to be fully deployed. Where are these results and why can't we see them? For epidemiology, please refer to Sciensano's report. There are a number of interesting things to note. First of all, it is good news that the reproduction rate is lower than 1. This means that the epidemic is gradually decreasing in strength. However, there are still very large differences at provincial level. In some provinces, for example in Liège, the incidence is four times higher than in Limburg. They're neighborhood provinces, though. How can this be explained? In all French-speaking provinces, the positivity ratio is still very high. This varies from 33% in Namur to still nearly 40% in Liège. In Flanders, these figures vary between 14 and 18%. For the sake of clarity, these Flemish figures should also go down. However, if there are still so many positive tests in the French-speaking provinces, should there not be very urgent testing and tracing there? Hasn't there been a source search? Contact tracing is still being done, but is there also a source search done to get even more insight into those clusters? I would therefore very much like to call for a more differentiated approach. It is a pity that we do not now use all the resources we have in the provinces that need it very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u11	Mrs. Gijbels, you need to finish. I know it's hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u12	Mr President, Minister, it is a pity that in August and September 2020 no work was done on the corona barometer. I had also put a question on the cost of the first coronabarometer that might have already been made. That's question No. 55010765C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u13	Mr President, Minister, many questions have been answered, for which I thank you. However, a number of questions have not been answered, such as Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the However, that question is already pending at the beginning of October 2020. Specifically, it is about care personnel sitting at home because of a corona outbreak in the department and therefore has to be quarantined, which means a lot of pay. The question is to come up with solutions to this. I hope you can come back to my question now. We have been waiting for the answer for some time. To the question about language barriers in Walloon patients arriving in Flemish hospitals, question No. 55010633C, you replied that interpreters are not a solution. That's obvious. However, you have not indicated, unless mistakenly so, what is a possible solution. I'd like you to take a look at that, too. To my question about the care staff in the institutions, that is, question No. 55010672C on the emergency law approved in the Chamber two weeks ago, you reply that you have no idea of the use of the law. However, that was a concern of ours. We have cleared up the law and regretted that there were not enough hands on the bed. We asked that work should first be done on addressing people who do have a background for concern. I have not heard from you what you have already done in this area. For registration please refer to the social partners. Can they provide us with a report on this so that Parliament can comply with the law? You also spoke of an opinion they have delivered. My question on behalf of our group is that the opinion can be delivered to us. That's it for the care staff in the institutions. For home care, you answered one question, namely on the remuneration of steel collections under the nomenclature. You noted that that solution requires time. We've been asking them for a long time. So it would be nice if you could work on it in the meantime. Now it can be done through consortia, but in the future it can be done through nomenclature. My question No. 55010769C has not yet been answered. With the new strategy to stop testing people in general, nurses, especially in home care, miss the covid allowance because they are no longer provided with proof of possible contamination. For my question about the carers, I would like to thank you for your answer, which was very clear. Last but not least, as far as the tobacconists are concerned, thank you. From the point of view of competition, I understand, but there were statements that they are open for the sake of psychological well-being, while our catering industry is closed and there certainly plays the social contact and the whole psychological problem during this lockdown. I'm glad you're saying it's about competition, because I agree with that, but not that it's about psychic well-being. By the way, we know that lung problems, like obesity, are a risk factor and that it is now all hands on deck. That is why I would have kept them closed and bet more on smoking through an extra reward from the tobacco smoker. But that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. What is the matter with you? As far as 641 is concerned, I'm still hungry. I am very sorry that asymptomatic persons still cannot be tested with antigen tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u15	Mrs. Depoorter, this is about science. Science says antigen tests are not sufficiently reliable in asymptomatic humans. That's not a political decision, that's a scientific observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u16	Then you'll talk to scientists other than me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u17	Then I'll ask you the peer review reports that say they're reliable. You must send it to me as a matter of urgency, because no scientist has told me this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u18	Minister, we can really discuss this, but if you will detect a cluster of individuals and look at asymptomatic individuals, you will take out your antigen tests. Then you will prevent certain superspreaders from walking around. Testing asymptomatic Persons will be found in scientific literature published on HubMed. You have enough staff to look that up. I still, as a scientist, find it very unfortunate that these people are not being tested. I think I have a right to keep finding that. What I want to ask you is when the plan will be ready for the general practitioners to work on. I have had quite a lot of questions about this, they are really waiting for it. We have also heard from the RIZIV that there would be plans to ban antigen tests, but that is not true when it comes to essential services other than care. I suppose I just heard that. Finally, as regards antigen tests, we have expanded the number of people who can do the sampling. One finds a small problem when, for example, volunteers from the Red Cross would be tested under the authority of a CLB in the schools. Has that been reported to you yet, and is that what your services are doing? Could this be settled through a royal decree? This problem will arise in the future when antigen tests are also allowed in schools. With regard to covid vaccination, I am glad that you started the plan, which is a different signal from the Prime Minister's yesterday. I do have a problem with the collective, to which you refer. The first line can do that perfectly, you know. The same applies to registration. You refer to Vaccine Network, which is very good in Flanders, but you will have a Community problem, since e-vax, unlike Vaccine Network, is really not yet on track. Since we are also talking about Brussels, it seems more obvious to me to go to the shared pharmaceutical dossier or the global medical dossier, which works throughout the country. So when the delivery is done in the pharmacy, with the registration in the pharmacy and the registration by the general practitioner, we are sure that this happens throughout the territory. The transport is an item that was viewed by the universities. It must be possible to bring the vaccines to the pharmacies. Nor could the fact that the vaccines are packed per 10 be a problem. At the beginning of the covid crisis I asked if there would be enough syringes available for the vaccination. I haven't asked you that question yet, but I would have liked to know. As far as the flu vaccine is concerned, there are shortages throughout Europe, but other countries have ordered up to 30% more, we have only 10% more. That is a regrettable fact that we have to establish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u19	Mrs Depoorter, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u20	Finally, Minister, you spoke about the concessions for the HAIOs, which is looked at in the RIZIV. A communication has also been issued according to which doctors and pharmacists would receive an additional allowance. Since that communication dates back some time ago, I would like to hear when that concession is provided for. Is that included in the EUR 200 million for the care staff you announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u21	It remains difficult to stay within two minutes' speaking time, but I would ask everyone to understand this method.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u22	Mr President, an additional problem is that we do not see from home. I do my best to stay within the speaking time. Thank you, Minister, for the answers. I'd like to come back to mental health. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your initiative, together with Mr Verlinden, on Saint Nicholas. That is for the little ones a boost that has charmed me enormously. However, given yesterday's reports, I remain extremely concerned about the age group of 17 to 25-year-olds, who are really having a hard time and who do not always find their way to primary care. Our hug contact certainly contributes to mental well-being. I also read that other countries have been seized by that fact. However, the 17 to 25-year-olds remain a focus for me. If you see opportunities to use the 67 million available for this autumn, specifically for them, and to pay attention to them in all communication, I would greatly appreciate that. I hear you're already working on that vaccination strategy. However, I do miss the bottom-up approach. Mr Jan De Maeseneer has made an appeal to really get hold of that and to have a big debate with the population, all the more so because the vaccination programme will then have been carried out more widely and then there can already be a basis for support. If it turns out that 50 % does not want to be vaccinated at the moment, that means that 50 % wants to be vaccinated. But then we are still far from the 70%, which is now envisaged in an acute phase. I was not expecting us to talk today about the flu vaccine. I have an additional question on this. I hear companies are already starting vaccination of non-risk groups today, while we are really calling for vaccines for non-risk groups to be transferred to risk groups. It is not entirely clear to me whether this is being asked kindly or whether the call can become a binding measure. 15 November was originally announced as the date from when vaccination could be and it is getting closer. I'm worried about that anyway. I very much welcome Mr Petra De Sutter's initiative, which says that the federal public companies will give the vaccines. We can take more binding action in relation to the companies that are now vaccinating. After all, I hear from all sides that some of the patients at risk are not getting their vaccine, and that worries me very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers, although the answer to the decision not to refund the smell tests by INAMI is quite disappointing. Indeed, I do not see why France, where this measure is applied, then recognizes an added value to these olfactory tests. For this reason, it would be interesting to learn about the scientific studies that underpinned this choice. Of course, I do not have the overall figures for people with anemia. However, this symptom is widespread, especially among young people who have contracted coronavirus. This sensory disorder must be taken seriously, because it also causes significant psychological effects, for example depressions or the impossibility for someone to engage in professional activity. These people should therefore benefit from a specialist consultation with an ENT. Unfortunately, many patients do not attend because of the cost of consultations and the lack of information about a possible reimbursement. I am talking about a very particular aspect of a much larger file, which concerns the follow-up of patients with long VOCID. I hope that the government will urgently address this issue in an integrated manner. This question is not being dealt with on a case-by-case basis. On the contrary, it must be seized with arms-body. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary to focus on the problem of reimbursement for smell tests – because the phenomenon is extremely widespread among the population. My second, very specific question was the sensitivity of nasopharyngeal antigenic tests. I'm not going to rest her now, because I think I won't get an answer. However, I shall rest it, as I consider it has not been discussed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u24	Mrs. Hmente, can you give us the number of your question, if you have it in your hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u25	Mr President, this is question No 55010750C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Honne. In this way, the Minister will be able to take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u27	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u28	Minister, thank you for the answers you have given us. I will make two brief remarks about the vaccine. Moreover, yesterday I asked the Prime Minister about this. As we know, it is not a product or a commodity like any other. I would therefore like to know whether you agree that this is a basic necessity. We must encourage the European Union and the WHO to consider it a universal good. Of course, we know that laboratories and pharmaceutical companies must be paid precisely. But "justly" means without the speculations we know and see. In the face of the violence of this pandemic, the best way to guarantee access to this vaccine for everyone is to make it a vaccine that would belong to the public domain and be patent-free. On the other hand, I was probably inattentive for a second, but I do not think you have answered my question No 55010763 concerning the closure of pharmacies because of the VOCID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u29	Thank you, Mrs Zanchetta, you are the first to stay in time and I congratulate you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u30	Minister, your responses to the implementation of the Act on the Delegation of Nursing Acts show that you have become aware of the absolute need for consultation. The lack of social dialogue, we must acknowledge, has stirred up tensions among healthcare workers. I would like to stress once again that you are really committed without delay to working with all the social partners and the representative associations to clarify and amend the text on certain points. If necessary, you could clarify who will be able to exercise, how the training will be given, who will be legally responsible for the delegated acts, and what actions can be taken by and towards whom. This need exists. There is a need for buy-in and understanding. But above all, it will also be essential that you do everything possible to ensure that all other measures are put in place to relieve nurses, particularly in terms of administrative acts and functions that may be entrusted to others, so that this law, as we have always said, is never implemented. If we were to implement it tomorrow, it would be a recognition that our system is moving from individual medicine to collective disaster medicine. The quality of our care would no longer be the same. Minister, I really count on you to do that. There is an important expectation on the part of all, and also of my party. Thanks for the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u31	You will notice, Minister, that I do not make too many demands in my questions, unless it is clear. There is enough confusion and confusion in the fight against corona fatigue. Clear communication is not insignificant in that, to put it mildly. I have more or less received an answer to most of my questions. I would like to thank you for that, but I still have a number of additional questions after your answer to my question. 55010743C. The vaccination readiness in the population is about 50%. The number of antivaxers is growing or their influence seems to increase. You can see that together with me in the street view and social media. These findings are also broadly confirmed in various surveys and studies. You must therefore excuse me, Minister, that I cannot really leave your answer that you will try to regulate it as well as possible under the heading of clear answers. In my opinion and in my party, you must now begin to gain the trust of the people. When the time comes, the population must be prepared to be inoculated. One in two wants to be inoculated, that's right, but one in two doesn't want to be inoculated. That is disturbing, but not surprising, because we have known these figures for some time. The question of one million is whether you want to make vaccination mandatory. There's a lot to do. I am also thinking of the information campaigns that you should launch in order to gain the confidence of the people. Minister, what measures will you take to gain public confidence in the vaccination against COVID-19? When are you planning these measures? I hope that we will not take it again when it is actually too late. I hope that there will be no feeling of distrust when the vaccine itself will be available. Finally, your predecessor would set up a research group that would investigate this and you have already answered me in that trend, but will we make vaccination compulsory or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u32	Minister, you have answered one of my two questions. I suggest you take a look at the reportage in C'est pas tous les jours dimanche of November 1st. In that you will see the testimony of an economically unemployed ambulanceman. That problem should more or less be solved by the amendment of the law of 6 November, but I do hear certain, not so favourable messages from the workplace. There are a few problems with that law. I am therefore surprised that there seems to be no registration. You do not know how many volunteers there are and how many institutions already use that law, which is very useful information. I would therefore urge you to ensure that we get that information because it is important to monitor this. You stressed that this would actually be a last resort. However, the reports from Bruges indicate something else, because there people from the hospitality industry, for example, could already carry out nursing duties. I hear from the nurses from the Bruges hospitals that they are not so happy with that because instead of help they actually get an even higher workload. I therefore recommend that you listen to your ears in the workplace now that the law is already being implemented in certain hospitals. I did not get an answer to my other question No. 55010582C. Apparently not all Belgians are equal before the law because when the prince went out of line and got caught at a corona party he was barely sanctioned. Now the governor of West Flanders and his wife can also be tested while the test strategy requires that people without symptoms cannot be tested. Minister, are all Belgians actually equal before the law? If that is the case, then I would like to know what sanctions will follow if the test policy is not enforced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u33	Could you repeat that last one, please? Where are the Belgians not equal and should sanctions be imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u34	The test policy was modified so that asymptomatic people could no longer be tested. However, it turns out that the governor of West Flanders and his wife were asymptomatic and still tested. Apparently, high-level politicians can be tested when the ordinary citizen cannot. I would have liked to have heard your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u35	Mr President, Minister, my question No 55010764C relates to medical assistants in training. You have indicated that exceptional hospital allowances also apply to these caregivers and that a budget is provided for physicians in training. I'm glad. However, further progress may be needed on the status of these medical specialists in training. This is not yet the case. I know that the former Minister of Health, Maggie De Block, had improved a common contract system that valued all assistants (on-call pay, overtime, etc.).). I think we need to pay close attention to the demand for consultation between CIMACS and VASO. These specialist physicians are awaiting a number of clarifications. I would remind you that they are essential to the proper functioning of hospitals. There is a need to ensure the availability of quality care staff in hospitals. They are part of it, as are the other members of the health care staff, and in this regard I would like to reiterate that it seems to me that it is really necessary to insist on the voluntary nature of the provisions of the law that we voted for last week because some people think they are going to be imposed on them. Of course, this has never been mentioned. Mr Minister, it is therefore very important to recall that this is a voluntary act. Nurses who do not wish to delegate acts have, of course, the right not to delegate. We must therefore stress the voluntary nature. I conclude by very briefly addressing VOCID vaccination. In the system to be set up for vaccination which will be more collective than individual, it is important to have contacts with associations of general practitioners, with circles of general medicine which can very well organize this type of vaccination in a very rational way. This consultation with general practitioners is very important now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I thank you already for the first answers. In view of the time allotted, I shall again address my questions to you in writing. However, I can already ask you about four specific aspects. I begin with my question about the new testing strategy (No 55010772C). You have already given us a lot of clarification. I hear that the deadlines have improved, but the inter-federal spokesman announced this Monday that asymptomatic people will be able to be tested again. Could you tell me if this is already the case, and under what conditions? With regard to antigenic tests, you say that precise criteria determine how many tests are distributed and to which recipients. I also hear your clarification regarding 3.5 million tests ordered again. How many tests have they already been delivered and to whom? What target groups are these tests intended for? In addition, the Commissioner of the Government has indicated that the use of these antigenic tests can be expanded in the coming weeks. What are the ways forward in this regard? Are pharmacists consulted? In addition, what progress has been made in screening, but in nursing homes this time? This is my question number 55010775C. I hear you made it known this morning that the salivary tests were not confirmed. What is the timetable for the implementation of the decision of the Interdepartmental Conference (IMC) to prepare for the resumption of preventive screening at this level? Finally, as far as testing is concerned, you have not mentioned pooling testing, despite a question I have already asked not only to you, but also to your predecessors. I see that this option is, once again, relayed by experts who propose it in order to expand our screening capacity. What about the analysis of this method by the working group? Secondly, with regard to nursing – my question number 55010777C – you recalled the principles of the law adopted last week on delegation and, consequently, the importance of the coordinator nurse, of the list of acts to be excluded and of consultation. Even if it would have been better to do so before the law was passed, you do it anyway. It is essential and urgent to draw up an exhaustive list of nursing acts excluded from this delegation. Could you provide further details in this regard? First of all, was the commission's request made only on this aspect, or on other aspects of the law? I am thinking of those who are entitled to receive the delegation. Secondly, how exactly does the procedure for accepting decisions taken by the Technical Commission take place? Do you intend to follow in extenso the committee's recommendations, and how soon will you take the initiative to incorporate these choices into the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u37	Mrs. Taquin, please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u38	Thank you, Mr President, but you are not very correct from one group to another! It all depends on the number of interlocutors and the number of responses, and I thank you for not censoring me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u39	With a three-minute intervention, you are the person who spoke the longest. It is therefore not a question of censorship but of a fair allocation of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u40	You interrupted me. I don't know where I was anymore. Thirdly, what initiative have you taken with your colleague from the Economy regarding insurance covering and protecting nurses in the context of this temporary delegation? With regard to the organisation of vaccination, this is my question No 55010774C, which you are telling us this morning will be a test of solidarity at national level. I hear that the first meeting took place when an integrated task force will be set up. Is it the government commissioner who will manage this inter-federal group? Furthermore, given that at this stage of the clinical studies, it would be clear which type of vaccine is more appropriate for which category of our population, do you already have information on this subject with a view to preparing a schedule? I also hear you talk about the importance of information and awareness about the safety profile of future vaccines. It's really a great thing, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u41	Madame Taquin, I am sorry but please finish!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u42	Let me finish! I take this as censorship. It's not fair. Minister, this issue is essential in terms of communication, especially when we see that, to date, about 25% of citizens in risk groups would refuse to be vaccinated today, according to the Supreme Council of Health. You're talking about an information campaign. I imagine it's getting ready and coordinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u43	Mrs. Taquin, I'm asking you to stop now. You've been talking for five minutes instead of two minutes. I shall therefore turn to the CD&V and ask Mrs Farih or Mrs Van Hoof to speak. Mrs Taquin, you no longer have the floor. I'm so sorry. This is not fair vis-à-vis other political groups. There are other members. Everyone's had two minutes, you've been talking for five minutes. I'm so sorry. I know it's hard, but it's 12:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u44	I note that the PTB censors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u45	It's not the PTB, it's the chairman of the Health Committee, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u46	I'll send the rest in writing. I'm holding it, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u47	You spoke twice as much as the other members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u48	I had a lot more questions and I didn't get answers. Good day and thank you for the censorship! She'll be relayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u49	The answers depend on the minister, not me!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u50	Minister, in relation to the testing strategy, I am very pleased to hear that you are working on a higher test capacity. I hear you're looking for 110,000 tests by January. I think that's all very good news. However, I would like to return to my concerns, as did the previous committee meeting. We should be able to take the asymptomatic patients back with us. Today we have 46,000 tests a day. We had 78,000 a day. So there really is space created. I am very pleased that you indicated that a further discussion on the testing strategy will take place at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. My main concern is for the vulnerable. Today we know that 5% of positive tests in residential care centres involved asymptomatic patients. That is why I would like to stress this point. I am also satisfied with your answer on the scaling up of the beds. You spoke of the three forfaits in the ministerial decree that will be put into effect. You're already working on the legal side of that. That is a very positive signal to the sector. After all, I have had a lot of concerns about it. It would be good, should there be any form of consultation, from your cabinet, to inform the sector that you are in the process of creating an overview and that, if necessary, you will help hospitals with the funding, if applicable. Mr. Secretary, you clearly indicated that there is a scaling-up of 800 IC beds. I've been to two hospitals recently and I've had conversations there. I also refer to the opinion papers on oncology services, in which it is increasingly stressed that regular care is really important. Well, when I was visiting, when I was on that service, I said that only 10% of the scaled-up IC beds were occupied. It is a missed opportunity for patients who need regular care. There's room for them anyway. I would like to know whether a strategy can be worked out so that beds that are not used can be used for regular care. I have asked a question about this before, and it would be a good thing if that aspect were to be looked at in greater depth in the cabinet. You also explained the flu vaccines in detail. Improve me if I'm wrong, but I haven't heard more about the one-third load we're expecting from France. Is it already in our country? Is it already divided? Could you give us some more information on that? Finally, I would like to congratulate you on the huge leaps that have been made in relation to the labs and the lead times. We are currently at 8 %. We should get rid of that 8%. In any case, I would like to congratulate you on what you delivered during the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u51	Minister, four years after having had Mrs De Block as the appropriate minister, who was reluctant to agree, the sector is making a unanimous appeal to you today. Once again, he was disappointed by the lack of consultation. Having said that, you have nevertheless announced a consultation on the law that was passed last week to delegate nursing acts to non-competent people. A great deal of proposals have been made by health professionals, which are very different from the measures contained in this law. It is time to hear them because your law is very unhappy with them. I therefore leave it to you to listen to them properly, whether they are staff working in hospitals or not. I would like to go into a little more detail about your answer on the testing strategy, if we can call it another strategy, Minister. After all, how is it possible that today, 13 November, in the Netherlands, in France, in Germany, rapid tests are being used everywhere, but that we still do not use them in our country? How do you explain that? It's really urgent. We already know for a long time that there are more false negative results on the rapid tests, so that they should not be used just like that, but everyone agrees that they can be useful. I do not understand why you are still here on 13 November to say that we are still not using the rapid tests and that you are not yet announcing a date on which they can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u52	Are you actually listening to what is being said, or are you reading a piece of paper that you have prepared in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u53	No, I've been listening and you haven't announced a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u54	I don't really have that feeling, but I'll repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u55	I've been listening very carefully for weeks, by the way. You've been giving the same answer about the rapid tests for weeks. They are still not being used, Minister. Last week you said that you would tell the general practitioners first, but we know that I am also a general practitioner when we will be able to use the rapid tests. Secondly, you are once again announcing a delay on when the national platform will be fully on track. First it was in September, then it was in October and now you say it will only be okay by the end of 2020. On the other hand, where there is already test capacity, in Antwerp, in Ghent, on the KUL and ULB, the capacity is not used to the maximum, if I have understood correctly what you have said. That worries me too, because since 21 October asymptomatic patients are no longer allowed to be tested, but when will we be able to test the high-risk contacts again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u56	Mrs Merckx, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u57	We have no perspective there either, so how can we still have a positive perspective to get out of this? I'm really disappointed in that. Thirdly, one in three tests is still not available within 24 hours, despite the fact that fewer tests have been carried out in the last three weeks, if I have understood your figures correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u58	Mrs Merckx, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u59	Again, what are you doing to ensure that we have the test results within 24 hours? After all, an effective and efficient testing strategy is really necessary in order to give a perspective to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You also mentioned the minks, one of my questions. You have rightly said that this is a deafening sector, which must stop its activities in Flanders within three years. One of the eight active farms in Flanders you referred to is in my municipality. That grower, but also other growers I had contact with, is asking party to quit. They see that this is also happening early in the Netherlands and Denmark. They now feel that a discussion is taking place between Flanders and the federal government. When the companies stop because of the Flemish ban on breeding fur animals, Flanders has to pay them compensation. When it comes to destroying the animals because of health risks, it is the federal government that pays. Minister Weyts replied to a question from my Flemish colleague Gwenny De Vroe that he is not prepared to pay compensation in case of destruction for health reasons. As a result, I still feel that it would be better to find a compromise between the two levels of policy. People are asking for the breeding of fur animals to be stopped - a legitimate question, because I do not think this is any longer today - and the government has decided that this sector should stop. There is a certain risk to public health and also the growers are asking for a stop. After all, they are in a sector without a future and the banks are not prepared to make money. Minister, I know that this is a discussion that is not within your competence, but I just wanted to say that because the inhabitants of my municipality, myself and the growers are concerned. Perhaps this could be addressed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I'm pretty much satisfied. I just have a detailed question. I assume that the biostatisticians' scenario of mass testing that we were allowed to read in the press this week is a theoretically beautiful model, but practically not implementable. I'd like to see that confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u62	Minister, you are obviously right not to speculate on Christmas. You say that a lot of experts are talking about it. I also hear politicians speak on the subject, and I find that they have little responsibility for their behaviour. That being said, the challenge is indeed to get out of the current situation, to avoid a third wave. In this regard, I believe that the government's strategy remains very weak. We have already failed twice. Again, you remain extremely vague about the testing strategy: who, what, when exactly? You are advancing a theoretical capacity, on paper, but we remain mainly waiting for HR and organizational capabilities on the ground, with the resumption of testing of asymptomatics if we want to master the speed of transmission of the virus and break the transmission chains; with a tracing, with an effective isolation strategy, an accompaniment to the isolation of positive people, if we really want to avoid this third wave tomorrow. In this regard, I am still waiting, because the government is in the continuity of the previous one, with far too much uncertainty. With regard to support for caregivers, I would like to start with nurses. I hear colleagues who are now, suddenly, trying to go back to what they almost all voted last week, talking about actions to be specified, etc. The law is very clear: you have passed a text that says that it can be anything but four acts. The consultation we are talking about today is good, but it comes after the fact and it will not allow you to change the law. I continue and I sign: this law, you must repeal it, and above all, replace it with measures that have been proposed by the sector, but also by the mobilisation of voluntary nurses active in other professional activities than health. Minister, I see you're not following me anymore, but I'm still going to go on! For MACS, we remain relatively vague. A request for a meeting has been made, and I hope that you will be able to respond positively and quickly. As far as the financing of intermediate structures is concerned, you have read me the royal decree. I know him. I would like to remind you of article 36. The maximum number of financial full-time equivalents per week is 4 nurses and 2 paramedics, to take care of 30 patients. This is largely insufficient. It's an extremely weak framework. If we want to be able to respond to this, we must ensure proper supervision. With respect to vitamin D, you say that the evidence is not established. I'm just thinking the other way around. This is also reflected in the consensus conference at Belgian level. A vitamin D supplement, not only on a therapeutic scale, when a patient is VOCID-19, but also at the prevention stage, would have an effect on immunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u63	Mrs. Fonck, could you conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u64	Of course, Mr. President. I'll finish with the vaccination. First, the one against VOCID-19, which must be anticipated. I plead that pharmacists and general practitioners should all be involved now. Second, for influenza, it is a record of failure, with insufficient control and vaccines that were given to people who were not priority targets. In this regard, you say that you are going to check at the company level. Minister, in jurisdictions too, vaccines have been administered outside of those targeted as priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u65	Mr Minister, first of all, I have to go back to the famous law of delegation of nursing acts. As you say yourself, you do not have visibility on the institutions that wish to use this possibility. I'm not surprised at all. Because none of the nurses I've had the opportunity to meet in recent weeks want to enforce this law. None! They had to be met before the law was passed and not after. However, I agree with you when you say that any experience is welcome. In fact, the sector is asking to explore a trail. It aims to solicit nurses who have not yet been able to obtain their equivalent diploma, and to regularize nurses who are in illegal residence. This is an interesting and concrete path, and I really invite you to relay it to your colleague in charge of Migration. I also want to go back to the rapid tests in particular. Professor Goossens said that for most rapid tests, one must finally rely on the manufacturers' statements as to their reliability. Negative results could in fact be positive results. Do you confirm that today there is no protocol or control over the actual reliability of these tests? How have the other countries, which now make extensive use of rapid tests, such as the Czech Republic, monitored these tests? What about the public procurement procedure that should be launched later this month to acquire these tests in much larger quantities than in the context of the emergency order procedure? I'll finish with the deconfining strategy. You have announced the figure of 50 contaminations per day as a threshold to begin this deconfination. Are we talking about all cases, symptomatic asymptomatic? It is essential that this figure reflects the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u66	I have not said anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u67	You didn't say anything, but it seems fundamental to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u68	You're saying I said something, but I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u69	The figure of 50 contaminations per day has been advanced in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u70	Not by me!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u71	In this case, it would be an opportunity to say that this is not the case. Still it is that if one targets a certain threshold, one will have to aim for reality, so symptomatics as well as as asymptomatics. However, we were told that asymptomatics could be tested again from 15 November. We're 13. Again this Monday, Mr. Van Laethem indicated that asymptomatic people could be tested again in the course of November. I think we are, on 13 November, entitled to know what is actually happening. I hear we're not going to develop the coronavirus barometer, but another instrument will be. It's still very blurry and I'm worried about it. Indeed, we will really have to be ready for the next decoupling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u72	Mrs. Rohonyi, please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u73	Mr President, I have waited for my turn nicely, and I will finish by that. As far as the vaccine is concerned, I hear that a working group will be set up and I welcome it. However, I would like to stress the urgency of a distribution strategy in consultation with general practitioners and pharmacists, as well as a strategy to raise awareness among the public. It's right now that we have to get to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u74	Among the people present on Zoom or here in the hall who asked a question, there is Mr. Prévot, whom I had forgotten. Mr Prévot, would you like to speak? Minister, it's now 12.45 p.m. If you would now answer the additional questions, you will need at least half an hour. I don't think that's realistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u75	Mr President, I can say a few essential things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u76	First of all, I would like to thank the members, noting that the exercise was difficult. I ask your understanding for interrupting you regularly. I said everyone could talk for two minutes, two minutes and thirty. I tried to be both tolerant and harsh so that everyone could express themselves. Some had more questions to ask than others. I know the VOCID meeting starts at 1:00 p.m. If Members want to go on for another 15 minutes, that's fine with me. Let us give the floor to the minister, knowing that you will not be able to reply afterwards. Of course, it is open to each member to re-introduce questions for the next meeting. In any case, the minister already knows what aspects are considered important by the members and for which they are still waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u77	Mr President, I think that a very brief reply may sometimes be desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u78	Mr President, I am going to take the most difficult points on which we differ or which are somewhat polemical. The more obvious and technical points I am going to leave behind. I would like to make a general comment on the various interventions relating to the testing strategy. Mr Depoorter, there are scientific starting points that we are leaving from. A scientific starting point is that the rapid antigen tests are much less reliable when it comes to asymptomatic people than when it comes to people with symptoms. That's science. The strategy takes this into account. That is why we have said that, with regard to the use of antigen tests, we give priority to those who have symptoms in the urgency of a hospital, a general practitioner or in the triage centre. We will also use the antigen tests in cluster testing. Then one has to deal with symptomatic and non-symptomatic people because one is investigating a cluster. One can of course always go further and use tests in situations where they are not very reliable, but then one has to pay great attention to what one decides. And of course I cannot prevent mayors from doing that, but that is their own responsibility. A number of people asked where testing remains with PCR tests of people who have had high risk contact but have no symptoms. We switched that off with a decision of 19 October, introduced on 21 October. Mrs Merckx, you scream a little, saying that it is scandalous and it should all be decided, that it is still simple and clear. At the same time, you say that it is going too slowly and that this cannot be done. Mrs Merckx, it may be a difficult exercise, but imagine that you are responsible for policy and not calling aside. Try to imagine what that would mean. You would then say that we are starting to re-use the available PCR test capacity for testing people who are asymptomatic but have had high risk contact when we have the necessary capacity, without compromising the other objective, which we have not yet achieved, namely to inform those who have been tested with symptoms in good time. So we need to strike a balance, depending on the test capacity that becomes available, using between the progress to reduce the time limit for obtaining the result that is still too long for some people with a symptom after they have been tested and at the same time to test the asymptomatic people who had high risk contact. We must therefore take a decision whereby the moment when we re-introduce these tests must be a safe time when one objective does not compromise the other objective again. That is the responsibility of those who are not calling aside but who have to make the decision. Before we make that decision public, we must indeed have informed the general practitioners and hospitals, otherwise we will be criticized again. In short, I cannot tell you today when, with my limited understanding, I believe that the equation will be complete. I can't tell you what day that will be. Firstly, because I want to be very sure that it is the right decision to test asymptomatic high-risk contacts again. Secondly, I would like to agree with the other eight health ministers. After consultation, then. Thirdly, I would first like to inform all the actors, otherwise they will be angry. So you're gonna have a lot of days to pull over. I can live perfectly with that. But you need to imagine what it is to be responsible for that whole thing. Sometimes people have to take their time and make sure that the decision is correct, well-founded, safe and also communicated in advance to the actors. The same applies to a number of other things. We have decided to use antigen tests for people who come to their GP with symptoms. Yeah, they're rolling out. That cannot be done overnight, because that also presupposes that we ensure that registration is done correctly, that the protocols are clear, that the antigen tests are there. Can't do all that in a fingernip. I would like to underline that. I would like to comment on a number of concerns that have been raised about testing. Mrs Jiroflée rightly states that preventive testing with PCR tests by the whole population is impossible with our current capacity. Perhaps that will become possible if other techniques develop. But I'm afraid to anticipate that. In short, as the person responsible, I am rather cautious in what I say about that. I'm telling you, Mrs Merckx, you can't solve everything that's going on at the same time. You can try that. You may need to get a little more votes first, and then you may take responsibility, but then you will have exactly the same speech as I do. You will say the same thing: we are waiting a little while, that is not yet decided, and we have to look at that. In connection with the antigen tests, I repeat. Are antigen tests used in the Netherlands in residential care centres? No, they don't. Is the test strategy so coherent in the Netherlands? No, read the Dutch press as I read it. Debates on all sides, not to say chaos. So please stick to the facts when it comes to other countries. Yeah, so we're rolling out the test strategy. We are talking about this with the colleagues from Health. We will talk about this in the coming days, but we need to roll it out in a way that does not lead to chaos. That is the risk that constantly threatens us. Mrs Gijbels, screening via sewage, I repeat what I said earlier. That is an interesting idea if one would be at a much lower level of circulation. If we can further develop this technology and find that it is reliable, yes, but that is actually not very relevant today. Mrs Taquin, Mr Bacquelaine and other members of this committee have insisted on the necessary consultation and if this consultation is actually organised, the results of the latter must be taken into account. Ms. Taquin, if I recall correctly, referred in particular to the Technical Commission of Nurse Art. She asked me whether I would take into account, if any, the opinion of this committee with regard to acts which may or may not be delegated, to which I reply yes, of course. We will, moreover, try to incorporate the outcome of this consultation as soon as possible into measures taken in particular by means of a royal decree aimed at clarifying in the positive and negative the law of 6 November. At the same time, on the basis of this law, consultation is organised with social organizations. I therefore share the views of Mr Rigot, Mr Bacquelaine and Mrs Taquin on this matter. Indeed, it is important to proceed in this way. It's a little weird that everyone's so angry about the law of November 6th. I have heard a lot of organisations, including nurses' organisations, who liked that law. Of course, you also hear people who are worried. It's okay to be unrested, of course. In any case, I hear a lot of different things about that. Mrs H annoyance, as far as antigenic tests are concerned, it is true that the AFMPS has retained a sensitivity of 90% for these tests. This decision is based on the large enough number of tests meeting this criterion, which allows, in the interests of public health, only the best ones to be selected, but also the possible unavailability of either producer. The AFMPS recommendation is based on the results presented in the regulatory scientific documentation of the producing companies. The assessments on the basis of these documents are indeed based on studies in symptomatic patients – again I insist, Mrs Depoortere – but they can be compared with each other. As for the companies selected, they themselves submitted their files with all the necessary documentation. Each test chosen shall bear an CE marking, which implies that they are known to the competent authorities of their respective countries or to those of the country where the authorised representative is located, if they are not located in the European territory. This procedure, Mrs Rohonyi, is quite normal, classic and I would say European. It is a question of asking the responsible agency to verify what in fact the industry itself has provided as required documentation in a required format and, on the basis of this documentation, to draw up a list. The list is itself based on a rather strict criterion (90 per cent) but not too strict. This is an absolutely normal procedure. Obviously, in the meantime, it is useful to do further research, to compare the results of these antigen tests with the results of PCRs, etc. But the fact that an official agency, on the basis of its expertise, verifies the required and regulated documentation of the industry itself and that, on the basis of this documentation, it says that "this seems to us the list of those who are the best but a list that is not too restrictive or too broad either" is an absolutely normal procedure that is used all over the world. So there's nothing unusual. I know that there are lobbies, especially those that have not been selected. Of course, they're going to tell the press that it's a scandal, etc. It's a good war, but don't let it influence you too much! We have to read everything that appears in the press with the awareness that there is a lot of lobbying in this area and that there are companies that have not been selected. Mrs. Gijbels, the barometer didn't cost anything. There's no charge for that. We haven't rolled out a barometer yet. The barometer was never really finished, although in September 2020 it was thought to be finished. I repeat, it is a strange idea that the barometer, as it was designed in September 2020, would help us to some extent today. We are just at the highest level of alarm and we are trying to get out of it. However, we do need a strategy. In this respect, I shall once again send the same somewhat annoying message. I'm not on the side of commenting today. That would be awfully easy. I am responsible for agreeing with all kinds of other governments on a strategy that is scientifically sound and that we are certain of. It'll take some time. We are, of course, trying to work as quickly as possible. Mrs Van Camp, I am afraid that your question No. 55010635C is not within my jurisdiction. You should verify it, but I believe that the question should be put to Mr Dermagne. Mrs Van Camp, I will come back to the law of 6 November 2020. You may have picked something up wrong or I've ever been unclear. It's possible. It is not true that we will ask for a registration of the application of the law to trade unions and employers. You said I'd get a registration from the social partners. That's not right. We will discuss with the social partners the application of the law, as we do with the Technical Committee for Nursing in the FOD. Mrs Depoorter, the question about the vaccination campaign is not only whether the general practitioners, the pharmacists, the hospitals want one or the other. The question is just technological. I do not see the type of vaccine used by Pfizer as a purely technological one being administered individually by the pharmacists. It's not that simple. Maybe I'm wrong, but then that's a scientific and technological debate. We should not insist too quickly that the pharmacists want and the doctors will. Wait a minute. The issue is extremely complex and needs to be looked at. A good remark was made about the syringes. We will indeed ensure that we have enough material to do the whole logistics operation, which is included in the planning. Mrs Creemers has said a number of things with which I fully agree. I thought Mr De Maeseneer made an interesting intervention in this matter. With you, I found what he said interesting. I have to disappoint you a little in relation to companies that have vaccines at their disposal through the occupational health service, which we are wondering whether they use them correctly in the target groups. We can't actually send inspection to the company. That's annoying. We're a little stuck there. What we can do is strongly urge them to use the vaccines correctly. The example given by the government, on the initiative of Mrs De Sutter and myself, to apply very strictly the regime on the available vaccines to the government and to think creatively about the surpluses whether they can be used for target groups, with respect for regulation, we would also like to see them done by private companies. Finally, as far as vaccine readiness is concerned, Mr Creyelman, it will depend very much on the confidence that citizens have in the process we are setting up. Is it serious, careful, not too euphoric, will we look at all the scientific advice and will we ensure that the vaccines are given optimally? This is also important for confidence, in addition to the general campaigns that we want to conduct. So far, a quick response to a number of comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u79	Mr President, I will keep my response brief. I'm disappointed with the sewer water screening. Mr Minister, you say that this screening is pointless now, because the number of infections is too high. If you say we should have entered that earlier, I agree. That you don't think it's appropriate now to bring out the figures, so, when government decides what the population finds interesting or not, I call paternalistic. It is our figures, our community, our data that are at the disposal of the government and we must not see them. I'm very sorry to hear that. It could also be looked at differently and could be a way of reflecting the decline in the bad figures in a comprehensible way. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, we do not always have to agree here, I fully agree with that. We are not in a university auditorium here, but in Parliament. We're elected. As you say, the votes apply here too. However, the decision you have taken on antigen tests is and remains a political decision. You are right that a PCR test is much more accurate than the antigen tests and that this plays into the asymptomatic and presymptomatic patients. The ECDC study of 2 February already shows that testing presymptomatic or asymptomatic patients can be a real added value. It is a political decision because there are just not so many tests ordered in Belgium. It's possible. That could be your vision. That could be the government's vision. I myself have a different opinion on that. That can be effective. You say that the vaccines are not just about doctors and pharmacists. Of course not. It's about the patients. I did do my research on this at the university, at the wholesalers and distributors, at the transport facilities. That vaccine should be kept at 70 degrees. However, it can be perfectly stored in the refrigerator between 2 and 8 degrees for 5 to 10 days. This is perfectly possible for the distribution of the vaccine. The vaccine can therefore be stored out of the refrigerator for 2 hours. The patient also has time to go to the doctor by appointment and be vaccinated. So are we going to make it difficult or are we going to make use of the fine-meshed network that is the first line? My view is that we can do this very well and that our patients will be helped in a very comfortable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u81	Minister, thank you for this exercise, which is difficult for everyone. However, I did not get an answer regarding the closure of pharmacies during the crisis. For this reason, I will allow myself to repeat my question. In any case, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u82	Minister, I have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u83	Minister, thank you for answering this supplementary question. The whole question of scientific analysis surrounding the tests has been very problematic since the beginning of the crisis. It's not just antigenic testing. There was the problem of ZenTech and DiaSorin. I maintain that the greatest transparency and scientific rigour must be of real importance because lobbies exist, in every sense. From the point of view of WHO, France, Germany and England advocating a sensitivity of 80%, it is still surprising that in Belgium, AFMPS advocates a sensitivity of 90%. Why? All this should be further developed. There is also a need for a clear decision with a closed list from the AFMPS. At that level, I think they went much further than their prerogatives. Thank you and leave you to go to the VOCID committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u84	Colleagues, as a reminder, the VOCID committee starts at 1:15 p.m., and at least not until we're done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u85	Minister, I would like to thank you for the clarification on vaccination readiness. However, I would like to say that, in addition to information campaigns, the vaccination process is indeed important. I don't think one thing should rule out the other. You can't grow trust in the population from today to tomorrow. With general or even specific information campaigns on vaccination against COVID-19, you can start today. All you have to do is order a campaign agency. Maybe I should put it in summary: The early bird catches the worm. Maybe that's a good idea in that connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u86	Mr Minister, since you did not answer my question, I think I can conclude that there are indeed two types of citizens. There are princes and governors who may be a little more than ordinary citizens. Princes are not or hardly punished if they break the law and governors are not punished with regard to testing policy. I note that there are apparently two types of citizens for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u87	Mr President, it is with pleasure that I will reply, hoping that we will not be censored again. You should review your definition of the debate, because it is more a matter of communist practices. The minister made a very interesting presentation for more than an hour. It is therefore normal for parliamentarians to have questions to ask and to have the necessary exchange time for a democratic debate, but I believe that this term is unknown to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u88	Mrs Taquin, if I can answer you, you have already used forty seconds of your reply minute. I just want to remind you that I also have to take the timing into account. We had to finish at 12:30. He spent 1:00. So I did my best. I'm not going to take into account the time you used. So you're entitled to a minute for your reply. Anyway, I'm very generous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u89	(...) According to the Supreme Council of Health. Let me also speak on my question No 55010784C. Several studies have shown that SARS-CoV-2 can remain present on some surfaces for a few hours – hence an increase in its spread. Several months ago, the press announced that a Walloon company had developed a self-disinfecting coating that could be applied to many materials and even the fabric, preventing the coronavirus from joining. However, the innovative characteristics of this biocidal product seem to be causing a great deal of pain, for several months, to the federal administration for certification, even though it had been tested by a university laboratory in Liège. Of course, my question is about a particular case, but it concerns the greatest number in the pandemic context. Minister, could you please tell me if a crisis cell has been installed to ensure faster processing of claims related to the fight against SARS-CoV-2? Do you have any information on this file that was again publicized yesterday by RTBF? Finally, I didn't hear you about the antigenic tests performed in officina. Thank you, Minister, for taking the time to respond to us through your presentation in a climate that sometimes lies at the limit of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u90	Madame Taquin, I let you talk until the end. Again, you spoke for one minute thirty, not even counting the time used to argue with the PTB – while that is not the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u91	Minister, Parliament has an audit function and I am pleased that I have put the emphasis on the testing strategy. It is normal that we should be very strict about this today, because it was announced that we would be able to test asymptomatic people again by mid-November, when I have to find out today that this is not yet the case. If I have understood your explanation correctly, please ensure that a higher number of tests is available within 24 hours before you extend the criteria again. However, that is urgent and I expect to be more clear about it in the coming days. A test strategy that includes asymptomatic people and rapid tests is necessary to get some perspective on how to control this epidemic. I will therefore not hesitate to question you further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u92	Minister, I understand that you do not like to be told that there are problems. But I think we must dare to make a lucid diagnosis. This is also being scientific. Clearly, in the "tester-tracer-isoler" strategy that should be reinforced and be much clearer, we are nowhere. We have already failed twice. You yourself had committed yourself to certain things, since in one of the first plenary sessions in the House you said you had set up a task force testing. You said that by the end of the following weekend, the situation would be very clear. We are a month later and the situation is still so blurry. Let me regret it. We are taking risks in controlling the epidemic for the coming weeks. With regard to the nursing law, you are now telling us that it is a royal decree that will correct the law. Seriously, this is not legal. Remove this law and do quite another thing with caregivers, it will be much more effective and respectful. And as long as you're in consultation, I'd like you to also consult with nurses and caregivers because on the subject of intermediate structures, foresee that to take care of 30 patients seven days a week, 24 hours a day, four nurses and two caregivers are sufficient, that is frankly indecent. You did not answer on this subject. This is indecent for caregivers and especially for nurses and caregivers. This is obviously totally inadequate; it does not allow patients admitted to the VOCID-19 intermediate structure to be cared for with sufficient quality. I'm sorry. You absolutely need to review this upwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-13-55-commissie-ic302x.u93	This concludes this topical debate, which is certainly not the last in this crisis. Thank you all. It wasn't easy about timing. Thank you, Minister. See you next week.
