ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, from now on we will also work with a clock system in our committee for oral questions. The Rules of Procedure provide that the question, the answer and the reply may last a total of five minutes. It has not been specified how long the Minister or the questioner may speak, but in total it is in five minutes. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u2	That's not specified. A total of five minutes of speaking time is available for each question. We will see how it will work in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u3	Minister, in December we heard that Mr Michel Lelièvre was staying in a homeless centre where he was beaten up after a few days of presence. Also in his room everything was trashed. I had already asked you whether it is a good solution and whether it is sufficient for a homeless centre to be given up as a permanent residence. Minister, do you still believe that the address of a homeless centre is in accordance with the condition of having a permanent address? What measures can be taken to avoid such events in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u4	Ms Bury, pursuant to Article 62 of the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of the convicted persons, the prosecutor's office in the criminal execution court and the police is responsible for the control of the parolee. According to the same article, the judicial assistant is also responsible for complying with the conditions imposed on the convicted person. It is the duty of the Public Prosecutor and the Assistant to report periodically to the Criminal Court on the progress of the conditional release, especially in the event of possible violations of the conditions, which may also relate to the place of residence or address. The criminal court may then decide to review the conditions or to suspend and withdraw the exemption. As I told you during the Committee of 11 December 2019, the conditions for having a permanent residence can be met, both by having an address in a private residence and in a private or public institution. It is often the case that one of the basic conditions imposed is a residential inclusion in an institution, for example in relation to the problem of drug addiction or other treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u5	Minister, your answer is the same as your answer at the beginning of December 2019. However, we see that the person concerned was not safe there. There have been problems there and there have been intruders. Your answer is really not an answer to the question of how such matters can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u6	Minister, the Belgian press was echoing on 11 December 2019 the imminent trial of Nizar Trabelsi in the United States, where he has been in preventive detention for six years. In 2004, Mr. Trabelsi was permanently sentenced to ten years in prison for attempting to commit a suicide attack on the Kleine-Brogel military base. He served his sentence in Belgium. Following a request for extradition from the United States, the investigating courts granted the arrest warrant exequatur to the exclusion of "declared acts" 23 to 26 contained in the United States indictment, which concerned the acts carried out in Belgian territory and for which Mr. Trabelsi had already been convicted definitively. He could therefore not be prosecuted a second time for the same acts, pursuant to article 5 of the Belgian-American Convention on Extradition and the principle of non bis in idem. This limitation was also confirmed by the Brussels Court of Appeal on 8 August 2019. However, on 13 November 2019, the Ministry of Justice sent a note to the US prosecution suggesting that the judgement of the Court of Appeal would be legally incorrect, that the Minister of Justice could deviate from judicial decisions on extradition, and that there would therefore have been no obstacle to Mr. Trabelsi being prosecuted and tried a second time for the attempt to attack Kleine-Brogel. Minister, why did the Department of Justice send the U.S. authorities a note contrary to what was decided by the competent judge validly seized of the dispute? How do you reconcile such an attitude with the authority of the res judicata which relates to the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 8 August 2019? It is settled case-law, and the doctrine is unanimous, to consider that judicial decisions on exequatur in matters of extradition are binding on the Minister of Justice. Do you support that the decisions of the investigating courts did not contain a limitation on exequatur in Mr Trabelsi's case? Do you argue that you are not bound by the authority of the thing considered attached to the decisions on exequatur? Do you support that an individual who has been definitively convicted in Belgium may again be prosecuted in another State, following extradition, for the same acts, without violating the principle of non bis in idem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u7	Mr Cogolati, the Belgian State brought an appeal in cassation against the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 8 August 2019. Following the immediate transmission of the judgment to the United States authorities as expressly ordered by the judge, it was through a diplomatic note that the United States was informed that an appeal had been brought to the Court of Cassation. With regard to this communication in the United States, the defence has initiated a trial in the Brussels Court of First Instance. The judge has already set the time frame for concluding and the date of pleading. The Belgian State shall present its position and arguments to the judge. I do not wish to anticipate now on this case still pending in a court of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u8	Mr Minister, I did not ask you to anticipate the judicial decision, but I asked you to confirm the validity of the non bis in idem principle, which seems to me to be clearly applicable to something that has already been judged. The opposite could not be supported in our bilateral relations with the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u9	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55002302C, 55002303C and 55002336C by Mrs Jessika Soors are converted into written questions. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55002323C) by Mrs Melissa Depraetere and No. 55002327C by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u10	Minister, my question is about the riots on New Year's Eve. In the meantime, it's been a while. In fact, questions have already been asked in plenary last week. The turn of the year didn't turn out as festive everywhere. In several cities there were riots in which the police were forced to act. In Brussels on New Year's Eve there were no less than 211 arrests, 185 of which were administrative and 26 were judicial. I have the following questions about these arrests. How many persons were placed in remand by the investigating judge? How many were released? How many people did this happen under conditions? How many people will be brought to justice with swift justice? When will this happen? I also have the following questions about the administrative or judicial arrests. How many people were of age? How many people were between 16 and 18 years old? How many people were under the age of 16? Is it true that there were 12 year olds involved in the riots? In the meantime, how many persons were identified by the special task force?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u11	Mr Minister, my question concerns the arrests of the courts. Your colleague has already referred to your policy area in plenary. In this context, I actually have the same questions as my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your conciseness. I have put your questions to the Attorney General of Brussels. After consulting the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels, he gave me the answer that I am giving you now. I quote: "There are currently several investigations into the facts and riots that took place in Brussels on New Year's Eve. A task force was set up to collect as much useful data as possible to identify, detect and prosecute suspects of the various infringements as soon as possible. In the interest of the investigation, the Brussels Office is currently not releasing any further information on the state of the investigation into these riots." The parquet did inform that no 26 but 7 persons were made available to the parquet on the night of 31 December on 1 January. As you will see immediately, some facts seem to be separate from the riots. Four adult suspects of theft with forced entry were the subject of a rapid judicial procedure and were served policely. They should appear before the Brussels Court of Corrections in the coming weeks. The juvenile judge was apprehended for facts of theft with forced entry by one minor, an unaccompanied minor stranger who was placed in a juvenile institution. A multi-year-old suspect was placed under arrest for facts of intra-family violence. A minor was interrogated by the Attorney in connection with a sexual assault. The investigation of this person continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u13	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We will continue to follow that case. You say that four people will soon be subpoenaed through the rapid justice system. That is relatively good, but, as you know, there are currently pending legislative proposals aimed at speeding up the procedure. If these people are to occur this week or next week, then those cases may not be dealt with immediately, while those people, according to the legislation that we have once approved in Parliament, should be brought to justice within the week. In the meantime, we're a little further. I will, of course, follow up on the matter further. I hope that there will be no more repetitions, even though I know it is vain hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u14	I don't really get a wow feeling about the result I heard here. You said the Attorney General set up a task force. That sounds interesting to me. I do not know whether we have anything to do with it or whether we can look at the results that result from it, but that would be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u15	Mr Minister, on 6 December last, together with my colleagues in the Justice Committee, we visited the three Brussels prisons. While we have only seen the poor condition of these prisons, particularly those in Saint-Gilles and Forest, prison officers have particularly stressed the constant lack of staff, coupled with the various budget cuts, making their working conditions particularly difficult. I can therefore only commend the work of these agents, who are doing their best, with great professionalism, despite the limited resources available to them. During this visit, I was questioned by the lack of work offered to inmates. Indeed, if it is proven that the work allows for a better reintegration of the prisoners and minimizes the risk of recidivism, at Saint-Gilles prison, only about 20 prisoners can work there, after having waited three months on average on a waiting list. In addition, unlike the Berkendael Women's Prison, there is no provision for qualifying training. According to my information, for all our prisons, less than one in two inmates would have the opportunity to work, this rate being particularly low in Forest and Saint-Gilles. Do you confirm that? What are the reasons that lead an inmate to wait an average of three months for work in one of the Brussels prisons? Is it due to a lack of staff or suitable premises on site, overcrowding, the age of buildings or all of these factors? Do these waiting lists exist in other prisons in the country? Why? What measures have been taken or will be taken to generalize and diversify the supply of work and training in our prisons? Is it planned, in consultation with the federal bodies which are competent in the field of training, to set up qualified training and to ensure the certification of skills in all our prisons? If so, what is the deadline? Are you in favour of creating an ad hoc labour law for prisoners, i.e. a genuine legal framework that respects fundamental social rights, starting with correct and indexed remuneration?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u16	Mrs Rohonyi, for the sites in Forest and Berkendael, there are no problems for prisoners who want to work. Forest has 100 inmates working on 180, wings A and B. At wing C, eight inmates work as servants. In Berkendael, any prisoner wishing to work can. For the Saint-Gilles site, about 180 inmates have work on a population of 850. The waiting list is mainly due to the limited employment opportunities and the difficulties unfortunately encountered by the Cellmade, i.e. the Régie du travail correctionaire, in finding clients for the Saint-Gilles workshop, which has not always been able to deliver finished products within the deadlines set. In general, waiting lists exist in the majority of prisons. Demand exceeds supply and infrastructure is also limited in some situations. The many days of strike that have led to the closure of the workshops in recent years have undoubtedly had an influence on the supply of work offered by outsiders. However, it should also be borne in mind that some detainees do not ask for work or training. There is no deadline for the introduction of qualifying training. There are 140 people in Forest and Berkendael. It is obviously more complicated in Saint-Gilles given its infrastructure and population in pre-trial detention. There is indeed an important turnover among inmates and therefore difficulties in getting involved in training that takes some time. The Cellmade is making efforts to generalise and diversify the supply of work and training in prison, in collaboration with the Communities. I share your concerns about the remuneration that remains too low to be attractive, but I have not yet found enough support to remedy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that the problem that was put before us during our visits to Brussels prisons concerns in fact all of our prisons. So we all have to worry about it and take it by arm-body. Indeed, it is unacceptable that these waiting lists should be observed in all prisons and that the supply does not meet the demand, even though it is well known that this training plays a role in the objective that we must all pursue, namely the reintegration of prisoners. I hear the difficulty resulting from the turnover among the prisoners, because of the status of a prison of arrest of the prison of Saint-Gilles. But this should not be an excuse to deprive these detainees of their right to training, especially since they are presumed innocent. I would also like to point out that this right to training is a fundamental right that is provided for in the Dupont Act of 2005 and that we absolutely need to implement it. We must achieve that goal. I hear the will that you express and I really call on you and your successor to work together with the federated entities to ensure that this right is truly fully realized in all our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u18	Thank you. For the MPs coming in now, we have a new system with a decoy. The time allotted for a question shall not exceed five minutes. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55002428C) by Mrs Melissa Depraetere and No. 55002454C by Mrs Katja Gabriels were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I have heard that on 3 January in Beveren prison a prison guard was very badly wounded by a prisoner. His kneecap was, as it were, shattered because he had to intervene with the difficult prisoners. Are you aware of this file? Is the unsub being prosecuted for beatings and injuries? What are you going to do to avoid such serious incidents in the future? How many reports of attacks on a guard were there in 2019? How many days of incompetence has this led to? Are unsubs constantly being prosecuted? Is the prison system automatically bourgeois?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Bury, the management of the penitentiary facility in Beveren took note of Twitter messages referring to an incident on 3 January through one of its staff at the beginning of last week. Checking with the staff, that day of duty, has shown that no one knows of such an incident. The person who posted these messages does not at first sight belong to the staff and is not known to the management in Beveren. Finally, there was no mention of an incident with the competent contact person of the Security Directorate of the General Executive Board of the Administrative Police, the so-called DAB, responsible for transporting prisoners. In the case of facts of a certain seriousness concerning the staff or the co-inmates, a complaint is always made to the prosecutor and the Belgian State submits itself to a civil party in the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u22	Minister, during the exchange of views on 8 January 2020 following the special investigation of the Bakelmans case by the Supreme Court of Justice, you announced that the Penitentiary Research and Clinical Observation Centre was opened in Saint Gillis at the beginning of this year. You said there would be thirty places in this observatory. You know that we have long been a party to such an observatory. The report of the Supreme Court also showed that risk assessment plays a decisive role throughout the chain. During remand, we believe that subjecting suspects of crime to an in-depth expert investigation is essential. So you admitted that the first steps were taken recently, and we look forward to the follow-up and enlargement. However, we believe that there should also be a useful follow-up to the findings. For this reason, we believe, among other things, that a system of partial accountability is essential. I come to my questions. Based on what criteria is someone sent to this observatory? How does selection happen: who does, who doesn't? How long is one observed? What is the role of the observation report? What happens if it turns out someone is partially insane? Quid the gradual insanity? Finally, there are now 30 places. How many places do you estimate to need?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u23	Mr Segers, the decision to subject a suspect to a forensic psychiatric examination with admission to the secure clinical observation centre is taken by the investigating judge, the investigating courts or the judgment courts. A forensic psychiatric examination does not, in all cases, require inclusion in the observation centre. According to Article 6 (1) of the Law of 5 May 2014 on Internment, that decision can only be taken if the defendant is in a situation as provided for in Article 9 (1) of that Law. Moreover, this inclusion is only possible if the expert indicates in his report that an inclusion in the centre is necessary in order to be able to rule on the points set out in Article 5 (1), for example on whether there is a possible causal link between the mental disorder and the facts. With regard to the duration of the observation, Article 6 (2) states that the admission may not exceed two months for observation. In practice, the duration depends on what the expert wants to observe. Information collected within the observation centre shall be transmitted to the designated expert. The expert and not the observation centre shall draw up a detailed report each time of the findings, the model of which is established in the Royal Decree of 25 September 2018 and which gives effect to Article 5 (3) of the Internalisation Act. Moreover, that model of report is used for any forensic psychiatric investigation and not just for the reporting of an investigation in the observation centre. Today, our legal system works with full accountability or not, and therefore there is no legally defined degree of accountability. In the future, the debate can certainly be held on the introduction of a system of gradual accountability. The observation center starts with ten places to grow to thirty in the short term. For the time being, this figure seems sufficient, taking into account the maximum period of two months for an observation and the abovementioned selection criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As has already been said, we very much welcome the fact that these first steps have been taken, and we are looking forward to the follow-up and enlargement. We are also looking forward to having the further debate with you on partial accountability, because I understand that you also see opportunities there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u25	Mr Minister, I had addressed this question to the Minister for Economy and SMEs, but, as you will answer me, I imagine that this will be more about the impact on the forms of society and the reason why the number of bankruptcies has increased. According to a recent Graydon study, 8,741 bankruptcies were declared last year in Belgium. We are very close to the sad record of 2013. All regions of the country are affected by this increase: in nine months, there is an increase in the number of bankruptcies in Flanders by 19.7%, in Wallonia by 20% and in Brussels by 3%. These figures are of concern. However, the effects of recent legislation on these data should be highlighted. Actions are being taken to ensure that dormant and phantom societies are closed because they are the place of illegal, illegal or money-laundering businesses. The bankruptcies of non-profit and professional associations are now also taken into account. The framework of the companies included in these statistics has therefore expanded. But we must not omit certain factors that contribute to the bankruptcy of companies, and it is on this point that I am questioning you. It is important for us to be able to understand, prevent and support companies that are in difficulty and especially the smallest of them. Indeed, behind, there are lost jobs, projects that fall into the water. In addition, Thomas Cook's bankruptcy has clearly aggravated these figures. For all these reasons, I would like to ask you about these statistics. How do you explain them? What accompanying measures could we imagine in the future for companies as soon as they show the first signs of difficulty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u26	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, at the outset, I would like to point out that the purpose of the bankruptcy procedure is to liquidate a company that no longer knows how to cope with its commitments and to avoid cascading bankruptcies by leaving unsustainable companies on the market. At a preliminary stage, the Belgian legislator has put in place preventive mechanisms which allow the support of an undertaking which is experiencing financial difficulties. These mechanisms include: the detection of firms in difficulty by means of a flashing system; the establishment of chambers of firms in difficulty; the judicial reorganization which, while leaving the entrepreneur at the head of his business, allows him to restructure in order to avoid bankruptcy. At a later stage, I point out that insolvency legislation has for years been designed to encourage the second chance and thus to avoid stigmatization of the bankrupt by, inter alia, allowing the write-off of his debts or by allowing the bankrupt who restarts an activity to retain the income from his new activity. In this respect, our legislation is fully in line with the trend advocated by the European legislator, particularly in the new directives. As you point out in your question, new bankruptcies have been pronounced against not-for-profit associations and liberal professions. There has also been a wide-ranging targeting of so-called dormant or ghost societies on the part of the courts since 2017. These recent developments have contributed to an increase in the number of bankruptcies, relativising the concern that may arise as new bankruptcies of fictitious or dormant companies or associations are less affected in terms of the destruction of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will continue to follow these important aspects in our eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u28	Minister, less than a month ago, in an Austrian prison, a 24-year-old man was caught forging plans to commit acts of terror in his own country. Afterwards, he wanted to make more victims outside Salzburg, both in Germany, France and Luxembourg. The man was radicalized and forged his plans in prison, so behind closed doors, with the help of two companions. When I read that, I remembered May 2018, when Benjamin Herman was radicalized in Marche-en-Famenne by two companions in prison. Since 2015, you have had an action plan for deradicalisation or disengagement in prisons. That consists of ten action points, which sound like music to the ears. I have questions about the practical implementation of this. Can you explain to me how a prisoner is treated with radicalisation symptoms? How will it be followed up and what are the concrete measures for the disengagement process? Were your action plan and its implementation evaluated? What are your findings? Has that produced any positive results? What can be better or more bet on? I can honestly say that radicalisation in our Belgian prisons is a great concern for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u29	Mr Metsu, the fight against radicalisation in Belgian prisons is a shared responsibility of the federal government and of the Communities. The aim is to control the problem of radicalisation within muros and, if possible, to achieve a disengagement on an individual level. Imams in prisons also have an important key role to play. It is important to underline that each actor can play a role in the disengagement of a prisoner. The partners of the Communities each offer an offer from their own point of view. The employees of the federal government facilitate that offer, but also have an important role to play in the assessment and follow-up of detainees, not only through tests, but also through daily contacts with detainees and the observation of the behaviour of radicalised detainees. They know the prisoners best as a first-line worker. This is why there has been considerable investment in the training and awareness of prison staff in recent years. On the basis of all available information and the offences committed, detainees are directed towards the most appropriate framework. In concrete terms, this is a three-track policy. Most prisoners are spread across prisons and have a normal regime, sometimes after a period of individual security measures. Inmates inciting radicalisation can be placed in a Deradex department to protect others. In the meantime, they are working on disengagement with them. Inmates who are vulnerable and influential to radicalisation and who are on the path of radicalisation can be oriented towards a satellite prison where the process of disengagement is being worked on. The satellite prisons have been identified. The procedures are ready. The partners of the Communities shall draw up a concrete offer. Due to the proper follow-up to the evolution of the detainees, the framework can be adjusted regularly. A report shall also be drawn up when a prisoner is released, so that the transfer is carried out correctly. The 2015 Plan was evaluated and the results were collected in an Action Plan 2.0 together with the conclusions and recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. I validated that plan in October 2019 and it is in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u30	Minister, your answer does not reassure me at all. I have a great deal of respect for you as a minister, but we are in conflict here. You say that the radicalized will be included in the normal prison regime until reintegration. Then the "worst" persons will be taken out to house them in the Deradex wings. Those Deradex departments are still not full until further notice. There are two 20 places, in Hasselt and Ittre. According to the latest information, there are 227 radicalised individuals in our prisons and yet those 40 places are not full. You say the inmates are being observed. That's right. I went to visit the prison in Marche-en-Famenne. It is the place where Benjamin Herman has been radicalized. A guard there told me that they only have images, without sound. They could see that someone like Benjamin Herman suddenly asked for a prayer mat and dealt with two serious terrorists, but in their report they could not mention a radicalized person because they did not know what was being said. In addition, I know of two Muslim consultants who are active in Flanders so far, but none in Wallonia. We are also still living with the idea that these people are currently under lock and key, which means that they no longer represent a danger. In short, we feel temporarily safe and protected from them, but they will one day be released. Those terrorists and radicalized people will one day be released, and while they are in prison, they will also have the chance to infect other prisoners with their depraved ideas. I am therefore increasingly concerned about the way in which certain people will come out of our prisons. It is my feeling that too little attention is being paid to this. You are right that this is about shared competence. I've had a lot of conversations with your colleague Vandeurzen. It's hard to "disengage" someone. I insist that we must work very actively, one-on-one, with radicalised individuals. My motto remains that radicalised people should be treated separately and not be allowed to stay in the ordinary regime, where they can influence others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u31	Madam President, Minister, in a number of particularly well-documented articles, the weekly Paris Match Belgium has returned to the Dubai Papers. If this information is correct, there is a new example of large-scale tax fraud. In addition to the main suspect, business lawyers play an active role as retreaders, and thus as accomplices to fraudsters. A former magistrate is also mentioned in the case file and one of the lawyers appointed is also an alternate adviser to the Brussels Court of Appeal. I asked you about this case, on October 23, 2019, still within the limits of the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation. In particular, you indicated that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had sent a European investigation decision to the French national financial prosecutor's office in order to obtain copies of the relevant documents concerning organisations and customers. You also told me that the Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime (OCDEFO) was in charge of this investigation and would deal with this matter as a matter of priority. You told me that no investigating judge had been appointed. You added that a federal magistrate had moved to Paris and that a meeting had taken place in September in the premises of the national financial prosecutor's office. Above all, you said that the relevant documents would be transmitted to the Belgian judicial authorities, as soon as a computer expertise could isolate all information concerning Belgium. This was not obvious to achieve. Finally, you told me that it was up to the Minister of Finance to answer the question as to whether Belgium would become a civil party. Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance told me that would be the case. I don't know if this has been confirmed. Minister, can you indicate the status of this judicial information? Does OECDFO now have the French documents relating to this file? Has the IT expertise announced by France made it possible to isolate all information concerning Belgium? If so, what steps have you taken to speed up the processing of this request by the French authorities? How many people are assigned to the treatment of this important investigation? What is being implemented to avoid exceeding the time limits for prescription and reasonable processing in this case? I've studied others that have dragged too much. Has an investigating judge been appointed in the meantime? Has the FPS Finance actually taken civil action, as announced on 5 November in the Finance Committee, by your colleague De Croo?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u32	Madam President, Mr Gilkinet, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has given me the following information: "The relevant documents have been transmitted to the Belgian judicial authorities by the French National Financial Prosecutor's Office on 27 December 2019. On 10 January 2020, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office transmitted the data to the Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime, requesting that this matter be treated as a matter of priority. A transmission of these data to the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) is also foreseen at very short notice. Computer expertise has been able to isolate all information concerning Belgium on an appropriate computer medium. OECDFO will immediately assign three investigators, including one from the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU). This figure may evolve over time depending on the duties that the file will require. On the other hand, it cannot be overshadowed, in the management of this problem, the workload which will be taken over by the Federal Judicial Police of the cases which will leave in the boroughs and by the SPF Finances, i.e. the methodology una via. This will obviously affect the number of investigators. The dossier remains at this stage with information to enable OECDFO and ISI to analyse the data transmitted. Subsequently, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office will hold a coordination meeting in the first quarter of 2020, bringing together representatives of the Attorney-General's Offices who will have to deal with individual cases isolated by the analysis work of OECDFO and ISI." On the question of whether the FPS Finances actually took civil action, as announced on 5 November last in the Finance Committee, it is up to the Finance Minister himself to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u33	Minister, I will begin with your last answer, that is, I will again question the Minister of Finance. However, as Minister of Justice, you need to know whether or not there has been a civil action and you can communicate it to me. If so, this is no longer the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I assume that if your answer is negative, it is that the announced act has not been laid down. For the rest, I am pleased that the necessary documents have been transmitted by the French judicial authorities. I hope these documents are useful. I am pleased that three investigators have been released to work on this issue and that you are also considering a coordination meeting in the first quarter because all these elements and all those of which I have been able to get to know in the press show that this Dubai Papers dossier is not annoyed and that it concerns, unfortunately, many Belgian taxpayers. If the means are available to deal with it, it will be discussed at length. And I hope that these means will indeed be made available. You must prove, as Minister of Justice, as representative of the Belgian government, that the fight against tax fraud, the prosecution of those guilty of tax fraud, is a priority for our government. This is a key budgetary issue in terms of the amounts involved. But we must also reassure all honest taxpayers that fraud does not go unpunished in our country. I hope that, within the limits of your duties, and as long as you remain Minister of Justice, you will make every effort to contribute to the successful completion of this matter. I will not fail to return to you or to question your successor, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u34	We have not heard from Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u35	Minister, last weekend there was a hallucinatory article in the newspaper about a man from Vilvoorde who had gone beyond atrocities against various women and children. Attorney Ine Van Wymersch completed in that article that the CLB, the student guidance at school, had been aware of these horrible facts since 2010. They knew that children with stripes of lashes and other repulsive things had come to school. I quote the prosecutor: "Not until 2017 the victims were taken seriously. The two children have shown several times the injuries sustained by lashes to adults. They ended up with two CLBs, where they literally said they were beaten with a whip, that their daddy was using drugs and the syringes were in the bathroom. It also ended up at the Child Abuse Trust Centre. They knew that sometimes they had to sleep in the basement and yet this was never reported to the court. The relationship of trust with those concerned and professional secrecy were placed above the protection of children. What are these kids supposed to think now? What confidence should they still have in adults? Hence my questions, Minister. What will you do to avoid such facts? In your view, should a regulation be drawn up to ensure that the protection of the child prevails over professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u36	Mrs Bury, I cannot comment on the specific individual case. That could affect the course of justice. I would point out that while respect for professional secrecy is protected by Article 458 of the Criminal Code, this is not absolute. The breach of professional secrecy shall be permitted, inter alia, in the context of the state of emergency, as a justification, or where silence may be considered as a guilty omission within the meaning of Article 422a of the Criminal Code. In addition, Articles 458a and 458b of the Criminal Code provide for legal exceptions to professional secrecy. In particular, Article 458a provides that the holder of an obligation of professional secrecy, when he becomes aware of a crime committed on a minor or on another vulnerable person, including the offence referred to in Article 398 of the Criminal Code, may bring to the attention of the King's Attorney if there is a serious or imminent danger to the physical or psychological integrity of the minor, and he cannot protect that integrity himself or with the help of others. This shall be without prejudice to the provisions of Article 422a. The article therefore already allows the protection of a minor to prevail over professional secrecy. For example, the case-by-case consultation, which was given a legal basis in Article 458ter and 458quater, allows CLBs and teachers to take part in such consultations. This is increasingly organised as part of an integrated chain approach. Moreover, in the case of child abuse, it is perfectly possible to contact the Child Abuse Trust Centres, the aid providers of which are themselves bound by professional secrecy and who can investigate reports or suspicions of child abuse or give an opinion on the social necessity of a measure, at the request of aid workers or the public prosecutor. I refer in this respect to the Flemish Decree on integrated youth care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u37	Minister, that was a lot of information and quickly delivered. Child abuse is indeed in criminal law, but we see that the facts were not reported. Then there is a problem, whether aid workers and people in the field should be reminded of their duties in this area. You referred to an article stating that the facts could be brought to light. That means there's still a possibility of not doing it. In such circumstances, there should be absolutely no choice to report child abuse. I believe that the question also fits in with the problem we are dealing with in the Committee on Justice, namely partner violence and intra-family violence. We aim to provide better protection for both partners and children. We need to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u38	Minister, I have heard from the press that there is a problem with Google Maps, in which very sharp aerial images of the various prisons can be obtained. You were also quoted in those press articles. You have stated that there is no legislation that can force Google Maps to blur such aerial images. The prison system itself states that it is dangerous that there is no legal framework in this area, and that the images are really sharp and might facilitate escapes. Minister, will you do something to amend the legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u39	Mrs Bury, first of all, I would like to refer to the answer to the written question No. 57 by Mrs Jadin. For military sites and buildings there is a statutory ban on making photographic recordings without prior consent, namely in article 120ter, primo, of the Criminal Code. Based on that article, aerial images are already blurry. Individuals can address Google asking them to blur recordings of their private home. For government buildings, such as prisons and courthouses, there is no legal basis in Belgium to prohibit Google from publishing photographic recordings. I would be happy to assist in the examination of any legislative proposal on the subject, to the extent that it concerns the Justice Department. In current cases, however, I do not think it is appropriate for the government to take the initiative on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u40	Madam Secretary, that is a clear tip for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u41	Minister, several magistrates have been complaining for some time about a mouse plague in the Brussels courthouses. On Twitter we already saw funny pictures of mice walking over the files and desks in the justice palaces. The plague has been on for several months. Are you aware of that? Will you take action against this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u42	Mrs Bury, I took note of the problem last week by the same route as you, through the press. I've questioned myself with the competent department of the FPS Justice Department. On the first complaint in November, he immediately responded to the notification via the prevention consultant. It was then about complaints concerning the Palace of Justice P1, the Courthouse P3 and the building located on the Waterloolaan 76, where my Cabinet of Justice is also located. They were then installed by their own maintenance service, but they did not always prove to be sufficiently effective. In parallel, a search was launched for all the legal services of the campus Poelaert to show exactly where problems would arise. At that time there appeared to be problems in other buildings, including in the newer ones, which immediately shows that there is not always a direct connection with the state of the building. For example, the problem may also be related to work on other nearby sites. Since the extermination operation through its own maintenance service did not provide sufficient solutions, additional action was taken in the framework of FOD's ongoing contracts with an extermination company, including in the Palace of Justice P1 and the Portalis Court Building. However, as not all buildings on campus are covered by such an ongoing contract, an additional tendering procedure was launched by the FPS Justice to enable the use of an extermination company on other sites such as Themis and Waterloolaan 76. Tenders are expected in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u43	That is a very clear answer, Minister. Thank you for following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55002575C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u45	Madam President, Minister, it has been quiet for a while, but in recent weeks there have been some escapes from different prisons. This is widely spread in the newspapers and news reports. In Root, two cell mates managed to escape through a hole in the cell wall. One can almost make a movie out of that. One of the two could still be captured within the prison walls, the other was captured in Nijmegen a few days later. Apparently, dark zones and pieces were used in prison without camera surveillance, to eventually climb over the prison wall. The hole in the wall would have been made in the toilet area of the cell, with a bracket of the television set. I'm not making this up. At the end of last year something similar happened in Turnhout. There, five inmates used a blind spot on the surveillance cameras to escape. Four out of five are now taken back, but Oualid Sekkaki is still at large. I, and with me a lot of people, have questions about that. Have measures already been taken in the prisons of Root and Turnhout to avoid similar escape attempts? If so, which one? If not, are there plans? During the escape in Turnhout there was outside help, because there was a getaway car waiting. Have the accomplices from outside the prison been identified and arrested? Have disciplinary measures been imposed on the prisoners who escaped or attempted to do so? If so, what measures were imposed? I ask the latter because, in principle, the mere escape, without damage and violence, is not punishable. Disciplinary measures can, of course, always be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u46	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, the necessary findings were made by the services of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions (DG EPI). The short-term and medium-term steps to be taken were analysed. The following measures have already been taken. In Turnhout the barbed wire was repaired and new ones were placed, cameras were repositioned and a file was submitted to order additional cameras. In Root, the hole in the fence and the barbed wire were repaired. In the short term, additional wire will also be placed there. The DG EPI and the Directorate-General for Buildings will present for both prisons where additional cameras and lighting are required. In addition to infrastructure measures, safety procedures are also examined. If necessary, these will be refined. In the short term, the regional board invites all head of the Flemish prisons to discuss the incidents. In this way they can analyse whether measures should also be taken for their establishment in the field of work processes, in order to avoid similar incidents. Turnhout's fugitive prisoners who were returned were given disciplinary proceedings and disciplinary sanctions in accordance with the basic law on the prison system. The prisoner who tried to escape Root is also subject to disciplinary proceedings. On your second question, concerning possible external assistance, I cannot give an answer at the moment for obvious reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I don't know what it is today, but everything here sounds very quiet today. Unless it's me? This was also the case this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u48	I had that impression, too, but apparently nothing has changed. I've been having trouble understanding everything all day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u49	Minister, if there are blind spots, it is a pity that we cannot find out in advance. That is the crux of the matter. And when one discovers these blind spots, one has to solve this as quickly as possible. In addition, preventive checks must be carried out in the other institutions to ensure that there are no blind spots. I think I heard you say something about that, but I am not sure I understood you correctly. I believe that DG EPI has a role to play here. In my opinion, a detailed examination should be carried out per institution in which each camera is checked and it should be checked whether each corner is visible or not. Maybe at the same time one should negotiate with Google to make the other aerial images of our prisons a little more blurred. For outsiders, this might be one less tool. I think we should try to avoid escapes. At the time, we had a period with a lot of escapes. It has been quiet for a long time, but I have the impression that in that world they have become very resourceful and have gone back to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u50	Minister, the Brussels Labour Auditorate refers to computer problems as part of the explanation for losing the file on undeclared work and fraud in the construction of the prestigious Europe building. In particular, the MACH interface prevents a smooth, organized way of working, a Brussels sub-situte labour auditor argued. The newspaper De Standaard wrote down on Monday 16 December 2019. I have already questioned you a few times about the displeasure at the Registry about the user-friendly nature of MACH. So it can't be news for you. In the meantime, the negative statements are not disturbed and the roll-out continues unabated. Mr Minister, when will there be a thorough evaluation of the MACH system? What plans are there to upgrade the interface to a performant and user-friendly system? When will that happen? How much was already paid to the software developer for the development and support of the program?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u51	Ms Van Vaerenbergh, MACH is constantly being evaluated on different facets such as performance, functionalities, capacity, interface and mobile use. The evaluation is carried out inter alia by the users, external consultants and the ICT staff of the FPS Justice Department. The improvement points are also being worked on. In 2018, a pilot project was launched for mobile use on tablets with a customized user interface for magistrates. That interface is also available on PC. The final evaluation by users has recently taken place and was generally positive, albeit with a number of suggestions for improvement. On this basis, the next government will launch and roll out a far-reaching interface renewal project. The budgets devoted to the development, roll-out, formation, evolution and permanent maintenance of MACH for the years 2014 to 2018 were previously communicated, in my reply in the Committee on Justice to oral question No. 28950 of the previous legislature. In addition, for the year 2019, the budget for the same items is EUR 6.793.928.52.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is, of course, a good thing that there is a permanent evaluation, because there are a lot of questions about the system on the ground, and it is very important that magistrates and clerks can work with good computer systems, which improves the efficiency of justice. I also hear that at the end of December a letter was sent to you by the Conferences of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Presidents of the courts, with many complaints concerning the MACH system. By the way, that letter was addressed not only to you, but also to the Chief of Staff. In view of the fact that these problems have already been raised several times, I hope that more, better and more effective systems for courts and tribunals will soon be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u53	Mr Minister, I asked you a written question on the evolution of the number of assist cases as a result of the change in correctness introduced by potpourri II law and destroyed by the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, I have to understand from your answer that there are still no statistics available for 2018. The fact that there are problems with statistics has been known for some time, but I would like to know how quickly the situation will recover. The figures for 2018 were considered unreliable as a result of a targeted improvement in quality, computerisation and an independent justice system. You would have made a proposal to both the College of the courts and the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office to set up a business intelligence body together with the FPS Justice Department. What has become of this proposal? When will the 2018 figures be available? Can you guarantee that the 2019 figures will be available for all courts, with the exception of Eupen, and parquets for the summer of 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u54	The proposal to develop a body in the colleges and the FPS Justice focused on business intelligence was indeed discussed between the parties involved. The development was part of the agreement on the independence of the seat, signed between the College of the seat and the Minister of Justice. However, the implementation of the agreement has ceased due to the fall of the government and its limited competence in current cases, which has arisen as a result. The support services of the colleges are continuing to refine the statistical data. Their efforts to improve quality have already produced important results, including through the provision of new source data since the transition from the criminal justice chain to the common ICT platform MACH. On 22 November last, the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office published the statistics for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. They can be consulted on the public prosecutor's website.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic089x.u56	As we have not heard from Mr Bayet, his question No. 5002125C. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr Aouasti's 5002273C is deleted.
