ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the thematic discussion of external relations, specifically the development cooperation section with Secretary of State Meryame Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u3	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after a 24-hour marathon, we are finally returning to the soft sector with development cooperation. It's a very nice jurisdiction. I believe in it very strongly. I really had high expectations when I heard that we would have a Minister of Development Cooperation among us. Unfortunately, I find the budget and also the content of the budget to be a poor thing. After the policy paper and the policy statement, which we have spoken through together and which you have explained, I have actually seen very little of you in the last two months. There was a topical debate on which I could not be present, but quite apart from that, a number of things have happened. For example, we have had World AIDS Day. AIDS is a global problem, which could certainly be tackled in your department. A clear publication has also been published asking for more tests for AIDS. I haven't heard from your department about that. I'm also thinking about the covid crisis. We are in the process of vaccination here. The COVAX program has been launched. There are conversations with Pfizer and Moderna, but I haven't heard anything about that either. It may be up to me, but I am a little disappointed that I have not heard you, as Minister for Development Cooperation, take a real position on these very pressing issues. There is also a serious humanitarian crisis in Ethiopia. I think it's very quiet about that in your department, too. Of course, it can all be a matter of taking action, but I hope that there will be a very clear global policy and that effective action will be taken. In your policy paper, for example, you refer to the growth path, which you will develop, but we do not see any of that in the budget. Is that all for after 2024? Is it simply an ideological choice, which is not linked to concrete actions, without any rational approach? That's what I'd like to hear from you. There are absolutely positive things in the policy paper. I explained it to you, too. We believe that your continued commitment to women's rights is absolutely important. Your cooperation with security actors in certain development dimensions is also a good step forward. However, I see very few concrete budgetary plans there too. The cooperation in the Sahel between Enabel and Justice, for example, is not concrete. I would have liked to have seen concrete budgets on that. As far as the development of reception and protection of refugees in the region is concerned, we are your partner. We will certainly agree to that subject to certain conditions. You also attach a great deal of importance to integrity in this respect, as well as to self-reliance and resilience. That is good, but perhaps you can attach a certain conditionality and ownership to that, so that we can really plan a journey together. Madam Minister, your policy paper is actually more of a statement of intent than a real note of action and that is reflected in the budget. There really is a lack of clear targets. This will make your policy more difficult to steer and more easily stray. This also applies to the external actors you will work with. They will have to carry it out and they will have to have a clear objective where they are going. I miss that in the note and the budget that goes with it. I'm a little disappointed in that. What also disappoints me is that the equivalence of the partners is somewhat missed and that you ignore certain changing dynamics in Africa. We all see them. Unfortunately, the note does not contain the influence of other, regional and international players. It is a policy of choosing old solutions: small-scale agriculture, fair trade formulas and the link with migration. We agree that it needs to be fixed, but you are getting out of the way. While you allow more money from private actors to be invested, you also give the leading role to civil society. Without having to justify itself, civil society will, without any conditions or additional control, implement the policies and dictate the lines of action. I don't think that's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u4	What is also very special, and perhaps you can shed some light on that today, is the discharge. We discussed this during the discussion of the policy paper. In your note, you announce that you will work on the debt discharge. You are making way for development funding through debt cancellation, but you said in committee at the same time that that is not really your competence. Perhaps you have already had time to consult with your colleagues, Minister Van Peteghem or Secretary of State De Bleeker? Are there any funds entered for that debt discharge? Is it intended that you will take effective action, or is it an announcement policy? You will also make efforts to finance the climate, in addition to the development cooperation efforts, but that is the only point in the entire memorandum that mentions the regions. It happens in that too that it is agreed who will pay what. This is programme 14.54.6. Are the funds entered in them federal or regional funds? What's its distribution? I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. This is a nice department. It really should be a passion for man. I miss that passion for man. I would like to hear from you what you will actually do with this fine authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u5	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will return to our discussion in committee. You have also heard the floor of our group, but I have not at any time heard you respond to or answer my group's concerns and questions. That's why I'm trying again today. I will, like Mrs Depoorter, make a general comment on your policy paper, which we have just discussed. I should also like to say that your policy paper contains many noble objectives, but you will forgive me if I say that there are also a number of woollyly, predictable and conditional factors in it. There are also many references to the current covid crisis, which makes sense, but we still lack a strong long-term vision. Your policy paper is, for a large part, simply a continuation of the previous policy. There's not much news under the sun. Forgive me again, but it seems a little old cabbage to me. I know you personally, Madam Secretary. We're peers from the most beautiful province in this country, aren't we? I know you as a driven politician. I would have judged you better in this respect. This policy area is very important and cross-border when it comes to packages of competence. I wanted to see a more important signal. A number of general concerns about your policy paper. You have indicated that, beyond the well-known general objectives, you also want to continue to focus on debt cancellation as part of that development financing and to urge other partners to do the same. You are also holding on to defining a growth path towards that standard of 0.7 % by 2030 and you are also talking about cash transfers as a means to reach the poorest directly. After your reply in committee, it is not clear to me what you intend to do: with this discharge, with the cash transfers and, of course, with the objective of 0,7% as the main growth standard, but on which we see very few concrete initiatives in your policy. You know that the Flemish interest is a social and national party. In this respect, we are in favour of solidarity with peoples in difficult circumstances. What we are proposing is that funding should promote self-reliance. You confirm this, I read. You also confirmed that in committee. You also argue for policy coherence, which is positive in itself. However, we do differ widely on the general view of development cooperation. We see that our world or region of Flanders, or Belgium if you like, is facing a number of global challenges such as migratory flows, globalisation, geopolitical conflicts and the corona crisis. Because of the fact that this international problem does not leave the Flemings untouched, we must dare to take action outside our own borders in a strong and self-conscious, independent way. This is primarily to ensure the prosperity, security and culture of our people. This brings me immediately to a structural point of pain for our party, in particular the division of powers. You must forgive us, we are Flemish nationalists. We see that Flemish development policy is not in Flemish hands. Development cooperation in this country is still carried out by the federal government, partly by the state governments and partly by local authorities. However, in 2001, almost twenty years ago, this federal Parliament, by means of a special law, has already called for the transfer to the Länder of the components of development cooperation relating to regional and community materials. That law was never implemented. The last working group of this data dates back to 2005. We find nothing about this in this coalition agreement or your policy paper. That division of competence therefore immediately creates financial uncertainty and it is perhaps therefore not possible to make this aspect clear in your policy statement. That is regrettable. As far as we are concerned, development aid should be used to remedy the structural causes of migration. This should focus, among other things, on combating Islamic fundamentalism, accessible food distribution, health care, education and also political reforms in exodus countries. Only in this way can we tackle the causes of economic and asylum migration at its roots and will these migration flows be reduced in the long term. At the same time, development aid can only be granted to our party if it is linked to a number of strict conditions. This can only be done with partners with a good and sound reputation and with guarantees that the money will be used in a targeted way. In addition, there must be clear compensations from third world countries. That is why I have a number of reservations. I hope you can give your views on that. You say that if our prosperity increases, our solidarity must also increase. But one must dare call a cat, a cat. In the light of poverty in our own country and the limited budgetary framework, we must dare to make choices. Where you are calling for a continuation of the policy in this area, we are strongly in favour of a reorientation of development policy, especially to the home countries of the largest group of recognised refugees and the non-European foreigners residing here. The funds allocated to development cooperation can stimulate reconstruction and socio-economic development in these countries. We must dare to question or question the target of 0,7%. I don't want that to become a fetish. We must also take into account the socio-economic context of the corona crisis. In this respect, we are in favour of an adjustment of the financial resources. Since we have not been given an exact framework, we cannot say anything specific about this. We don't know where the resources will go. A completely different vision from what is in store here but sometimes managers have to make bold choices to give a new impetus to the policy. I have two further questions concerning emergency humanitarian aid. As will be mentioned later, my group is opposed to stepping up development aid. Emergency humanitarian aid is needed in certain parts of the world to alleviate the suffering of the affected people in those regions. The region of the Sahel is the model of an area currently hard hit by, among other things, a serious humanitarian crisis, famines and armed conflicts. We're also very active with the DOD. On top of that, we also have the corona crisis. In the case of emergency aid, too, we believe that the clarity, the duration of operations, the amount of money invested in them and the organisation that distributes the aid. You have announced an additional EUR 8 million over the EUR 10 million for emergency humanitarian aid in the Sahel region, of which EUR 5 million will be made available to Mali and Niger through the Red Cross and EUR 3 million for Burkina Faso through the UN Refugee Commissioner. The latter is a sub-organisation of the UN on which third world countries have an important stamp and whose neutrality can at least be contested. I ask your view on this? If you move towards emergency humanitarian aid, would it not be desirable, for example, to allow emergency aid to Burkina Faso to go through the Red Cross? What are your views on the clear definition of the mission to be carried out on the ground? My second question concerns the reason cited as the main cause of the problems in the Sahel region, in particular climate change. In addition to climate change, researchers point to the direct responsibility of political authorities in a region such as the Sahel. It can therefore be concluded that a political or long-term vision cannot be achieved as long as the structural reasons for this crisis are not addressed. What is your view on the possibility of political accountability, possibly in cooperation with Defence? Mr Flahaut has already opened the door to this. What's your vision on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u6	Development cooperation is indeed a beautiful, but also a difficult department, because it is often about helping vulnerable people in very difficult situations, which they have often not asked for. I'm glad you're underlining the need for that. We may have a different view on certain issues, but I am glad that we are at least in agreement on them. Mrs Depoorter, you mentioned the lack of visibility. You also cited World AIDS Day. I would like to remind you that, together with the head of UNAIDS, I wrote an opinion paper on World AIDS Day. I have also taken the necessary action on the Human Rights Day. So we are trying to create sufficient visibility in different areas. You may have missed that, but I would like to tell you that we are working on it effectively. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, you know that at the moment we are mainly investing in the flexible funds because they enable us to move quickly in the event of a crisis, and that is, of course, the intention. Otherwise, we must always act ad hocly. We have increased humanitarian aid by EUR 22 million, which, of course, is not a good sign, because the bigger the problems, the more we have to increase the budget. We prefer to see the budget fall, but if the need is high, we must provide assistance. I have discussed the current crisis in Ethiopia extensively with Commissioner Lenarcic. Together with my colleague Spohie Wilmès of Foreign Affairs, I closely monitor the situation. We are looking at what steps we can take. You know that the situation there is very difficult. We are even talking about a situation in which access to aid is refused. The UN Secretary-General has also expressed its views on this issue. The European budgets have also been cut off. You know that humanitarian aid can never be used as a means of negotiation. It is therefore important that we at least ensure that the agreements made with Ethiopia to allow access to humanitarian aid are respected, but we are following it closely. You've both come back to the growth path story. You also referred to a passage in the coalition agreement, Mrs Ponthier. We are aiming for a growth path of 0.7% by 2030. The growth path depends on the rise in prosperity. If prosperity is to rise, then our solidarity must also increase. You have said that you do not find much of that in the budget, Mrs Depoorter, but I have already indicated in committee that it is not obvious to maintain the budget at a time when our country is in a very serious crisis. We have already taken a first step in the right direction. If we had to save in other countries, we would always have saved on the budget of development cooperation. We didn't do that. We've held out. We're supposed to grow. I have also asked the administration to develop a route and to see how we can take the path. When the process is completed, I am prepared to discuss it with you in committee and see how we can best achieve it. There were questions about the priorities and goals. I feel some support for the self-reliance and resilience of the people. I support the conditionality attached to it. That is also clearly stated in the policy paper. At the moment we are also starting up all the country portfolios, some of which need urgent renewal. We are in full preparation and start-up. We're evaluating. The intention is to be ready by the end of next year and then to see what choices we can make with which partner countries. Mrs. Depoter, you referred to the private sector versus civil society. I can give you some good examples in this area, such as D4D or the Beyond Chocolate project, which shows that this means can help to achieve our objectives. I also said in committee that on the other hand it is not sacrificing, but that it still needs to be evaluated, per project, in order to achieve our objectives as much as possible. You said in committee that we are almost giving civil society a blank cheque and have no control over it. I think that the rules in this area are very strict: they have to submit their programme and their results, checks are being carried out. We are one of the most controlling countries. Civil society is complaining about the administrative burden, but we must be able to retain that control. I believe in the partners of civil society. I have also given you some examples of good results in committee, thanks to civil society and the role they play in helping people when there is a lack of a government on the ground as an interlocutor. As regards climate finance, we have an increase of 30% or EUR 20 million for next year, as already explained. This is a relocation of our own budget, which means that climate finance will reach EUR 87 million. Additionally, outside the budget of DGD, another 12 million euros will be added. As you yourself say, this must be negotiated with the regions in order to see how they will be deployed. Those negotiations are already under way. As soon as that is clarified, we will give it to you. Mrs Ponthier, you have shared your views on the transfer of the Länder. This could be part of the debate with my colleagues Verlinden and Clarinval, who are tasked with thinking about institutional reforms. Your suggestion may be included in that committee. Then I come to your question about cash transfers and waivers. Studies show that cash transfers are an effective means of combating poverty. Quite a lot of people appeal to it. Because there is a large transport cost involved and because there is a relapse in the current covid crisis, the resources on the ground have been greatly reduced, which requires our attention. In some places, cash transfers are higher than the development cooperation budget. It remains an important tool that has been proven to help people out of poverty, but it is not intended to make cash transfers structural. I see them as an intermediate step towards structural solutions. The discussion on waivers is ongoing. Our country doesn't have that much debt in that area. I cannot yet put an amount on it, since, of course, the countries themselves must first ask for remission. At the moment there is a delay of six months, which is not enough. This debate is taking place at European level. It looks at how we can alleviate countries and how this can contribute to achieving the objectives of development cooperation. In committee, I have set an example of a country that has to pay more for waivers than it can invest in the development and health care of its own country together. So we certainly need to look at how we can restore that balance. I have answered the questions about the 0,7% standard and the transfer to the Länder. Mrs Ponthier, you also had a question about the Sahel and the main causes that we need to address. As you know, we keep the focus on fragile and low income countries, which is clearly stated in the policy paper. We need to look at the root causes, as you say for yourself. We must invest not only in the climate, but also in political accountability. We want to implement coherent policy-making in this area, a comprehensive approach. It is useful and important that we sit together not only with the Minister of Defence, but also with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to tackle this political response together and to make progress. That is, of course, a difficult subject, which we follow closely. So much for my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u7	Madam President, Minister, I am a little disappointed. What I said at first turns out to be true. Your policy paper is actually an announcement policy. You start with that growth path and you say that you will no longer invest, that you will not take any steps when there is a crisis in our country. I agree with that, because our people really need a lot of resources. Our businesses moan, our care sector moans. That's right, but why are you announcing it? Then why put it in your policy paper? Isn't that what a budget is for? If you have an action, put a budget against it. That's the essence of what we're doing here. I beg your pardon? We're in a crisis. That's why we don't have any money. So far, we're in agreement. But then you say you're gonna do it anyway. Then you don't have to announce that, do you? Then you'll just scrape it. Then we'll see what decision will be taken in the future. That is what a budget is for. I do not agree with you at all about the private actors. You refer to D4D, but that is still very limited. Civil society organisations will indeed receive a blank cheque. However, these are all basically details of the other issues, first and foremost that growth path. Secondly, there is the climate agreement. You did not answer me: who will pay for this action? You still have to negotiate it. Here again, you will provide additional resources for the climate, but you do not yet know whether you will pay them yourself or whether you will tell them in the Länder. You don't know that yet. Again, a budget is action and budget. Finally, the debt cancellations. You refer to Europe and you say that you do not yet have a specific amount. That's the same thing again. Madam Secretary, you have the responsibility for development cooperation. Take it, do it effectively. If you do not get a budget, I understand that it will be very difficult to do something with it. I would like to address your colleague, Mr De Bleeker. It is now yet another time that we do not find a budget in relation to a particular action. I'm really starting to worry about your budget. You have registered everything, but you have not set a budget against it. Then there are two possibilities: either you are not going to do anything, or your budget is going to derail enormously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u8	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which disappoints me somewhat. With all sympathy, but I think that the critical remarks that my group has just made are confirmed for a great deal. You still speak in a very general and conditional key, in all kinds of domains. Let me give you an example: I mentioned the structural pain of our party, in particular the division of competence in development cooperation, which is divided into all possible policy areas of our country. Of this, you say that I should actually address myself to the Ministers for Institutional Reforms, Minister Clarinval and Minister Verlinden. They'll have to work that out. I would like to ask you explicitly not to wait. As Mr Depooster says: you are Minister of your policy area, address those ministers and take the initiative to move things forward. Indicate that there is a need for improvement in that domain. It will also facilitate your task. If there is financial clarity in this area, you have clearer visions in mind and then you can focus your budget very well on that. Secondly, you replied to the question on humanitarian aid. We will certainly keep an eye on what is going to happen in practice with the flexible funds, because a flexible fund can of course be as flexible as one wants. Where is that going to come from? I understand it's easier to use. In this respect, I would be happy to support you and give you the confidence, but in other areas we lack concrete action plans. You also say that, in the event of a crisis in our own country or region, we have long been pleased to be able to survive. Then we're definitely not gonna give extra resources, then we're gonna focus on our own crisis. I would like to say the following: if there is a crisis in your own country, you must certainly look at your own needs. Then you certainly should not invest extra money in development aid, but perhaps look at the emergency situation in our own region. That has nothing to do with selfishness. That has to do with common sense. I think there are many countries in the world that are ahead of us in this respect. I would ask you to keep that position in mind and to adjust it if necessary. Madam President, Minister, we can conclude that we have a different view of development aid in part. If we were on the buttons, we would indeed make other choices. In your policy vision, in which you continue the policies of the past governments, we believe you have missed the opportunity to implement an innovative policy. I really expected that from you. I mean that. I know that you are very passionate in other areas, and I expected a new wind to blow in this policy area. You didn't do that until further notice. You may be able to adjust, I hope. At the moment, you have already missed the opportunity to renew and to express the new political culture in this area. We can only regret this, but we will, of course, follow it very closely in your continued policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u9	Madam President, I would like to thank the two colleagues for their critical remarks. As a result, I remain focused and keep the objectives in mind. Mrs Depoorter, I would like to clarify something. We are not going to negotiate the EUR 12 million with the regions. That 12 million euros is in our budget. You can literally find that in the budget. We are going to negotiate with the regions so that they can make a contribution. When I speak of EUR 12 million or an increase of 30%, it is effectively included in the policy. I just wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u10	Madam Secretary, that's good news. That's one in three, so it's still tubular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, if no one asks to speak, we can conclude the discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u12	Good morning, Ministers. I never thought I'd leave my sleep for a minister, but it turned out to be this one. My voice has also disappeared a bit by it, but after more than 25 hours we can finally get started on the topic of Economy. I'd like to start with a quote that appeared on Twitter yesterday. It's not mine. 'Lately several times spoke to self-employed people who have to close permanently within a few weeks. Enthusiastic and dynamic people who had the courage to take risks. Terrible shame." They're not my own words, but those of Rik Torfs, former rector of the University of Leuven. As an entrepreneur, I hear the same testimonies every day. When we look at the budgetary vacuum of the FPS Economy, we see that not much has changed. One could say that is good, because then we should not make any comments. It is, of course, the case that we will face very great challenges in the coming months and years. These challenges require a lot of additional spending from the public authorities. We're not gonna find it in here. There is the corona crisis in which, unfortunately, we still find ourselves. In your policy statement, you assumed that there would be no third wave. Unfortunately, today we have to conclude that we will not be able to rule out this scenario. Yesterday, in committee, you indicated that you would extend the aid measures and even supplement them for a number of sectors which were seriously affected. That is a very noble objective and it is also necessary for a number of sectors. The question naturally arises where you will keep getting that money. It looks like there's an inexhaustible supply of money no one knows from where it's supposed to come. This is also a concern of the entrepreneurs. They get a lot of support but at some point that invoice will still have to be paid. The entrepreneur is afraid that this will be converted into taxes. We are also wondering whether more targeted measures could be taken instead of general measures that would make it possible to use the money more efficiently. For example, large versus small enterprises that can benefit from temporary unemployment and whether or not they have double bridging rights: this has a very different effect for a large company than for a small one. It is even worse if a colleague from a government party wants to grant benefits to all young people. There are sectors that are still hard hit by the crisis. I am thinking of the travel sector and the event sector. They are definitely still waiting for sectoral measures. These companies have lost up to 85% of their turnover in the past year. These companies are financially sound but they cannot function because of the circumstances. They could really use the extra help, but what's important is they're getting ready for the future. If they want to move forward, and they all want to do so very hard, then they need to be supported by the government and made competitive for the future and for the foreign competition we see today. It is important that as a government we do not encourage people to stay home. This week has also shown who is the most affected of this crisis. That's the little self-employed and the entrepreneur. Despite their pride, more and more self-employed people have joined the OCMW in recent months. Even the Food Banks wrote them down. These are often the entrepreneurs who take the greatest risks of earning their own money, who spend all their savings on their businesses, who want to work hard and who, in normal circumstances, contribute to our social security and create prosperity. They're actually the engine of our economy. In your policy paper, you focused mainly on the vulnerable and the consumer and less on the entrepreneur. I have said that I find that a very regrettable case. But what do we see now? We see that this entrepreneur is becoming vulnerable. In other words, they are in very heavy weather and it is absolutely necessary for the relevant ministers to show this. They have to be there for them and show that they haven't forgotten them. Last week I saw a measure, especially a free psychologist for the self-employed. I hope this is funny. I'm an entrepreneur and an occupational psychologist myself. I know this is a long way from the entrepreneur's world. That is absolutely something that she or he does not need at the moment. In the same report in which we see that the small self-employed and the entrepreneur are the most affected, we see that the families are still doing quite well at the moment. I'll say, right now. We also see that they have saved EUR 22 billion extra in recent months. In other words, consumer confidence has been damaged. As a responsible minister, you should ensure that this consumer confidence is restored. In this way, consumers can help to support our businesses. This is how we can revitalize our economy. There is no point in permanently pumping money into zombie companies, for example. That can only harm our economy. It is a phenomenon for which we have been warning for months. The ears remain closed for that. These companies are infecting our economy, and if we do not pay attention, there is a chance that our banks will also be infected and we will end up in a financial crisis. We must try as much as possible to help the financially sound companies. We know this week that 20% of our healthy companies will be in very bad papers before the crisis, after 31 January, and that 25% will only perform moderately. This makes it clear once again that we must take out the abuse for the benefit of the other healthy companies. Next to the corona crisis comes the Brexit. Looks like it won't be soft. You replied to my colleague Van Bossuyt last week that various measures will be taken. Many of these measures were adopted in March. So there was sufficient time to include these measures in the budget, one would think. However, we do not find money for all measures in your policy paper. In the accounting note of the FPS Economy, the word Brexit can't even be read. How do you intend to deal with this imminent crisis? Yesterday you indicated in committee that the most affected sectors would be supported. Who decides which sectors they will be? Hopefully we can expect more objectivity there than in determining the essential sectors in this corona crisis. I should not repeat how much frustration and disappointment that has led to many of our entrepreneurs. Thirdly, fraud is increasingly affecting our economy in all areas. Earlier this week, we were able to read about fraud involving temporary unemployment and the right of bridging. In addition, there is also a lot of fraud by selling counterfeits on all kinds of sites and social media. You have indicated that you wish to extend the powers of the Economic Inspectorate and the BMA. That is absolutely necessary and therefore a good thing. Crimes will only continue to increase and there are always new forms of fraud, especially due to the corona crisis. In order to protect that consumer and also to ensure the competition of our honest companies, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the Economic Inspectorate and the BMA, but we are still wondering whether the investment in the budget for these bodies is large enough and whether the promises you make in your policy paper will be fulfilled. Finally, something that still needs to be cleared up within the government. Minister De Sutter informed us that the service concession would expire with bpost in 2022. It is EUR 170 million. You say that this concession would last until 2024, so two years longer. What do you intend to do here and will you continue to pay this subsidy? In other words, Ministers, there are still a lot of challenges ahead for you and I wonder if you will be able to meet them all with the budget presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and Minister, allow me to say that these were long but interesting debates that we had in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs where we saw six ministers and State Secretaryes review. Apart from the content, ladies and gentlemen, this shows that there are too many people in a fragmented way responsible for a matter that will matter in the coming period. I also mentioned this in the European Parliament during the debate on the government statement. That is certainly in the precarious and difficult economic situation we are living in today. Bearing in mind all the good intentions and intentions, I wonder how this can happen effectively and efficiently when so many members of the government are responsible for a matter that lands our economy. Let us above all hope that it will not become a Mexican army of economics. Minister Dermagne rightly states that we do not yet know all the economic consequences of the covid measures taken. It remains to be seen whether we are facing a short but powerful economic crisis, whether or not we are at the front door of a long crisis in the trend that began in 2008. Even if we do not know the consequences, we cannot wait to take concrete action for economic recovery. We will have to continue to deal with each other in difficult circumstances, perhaps until September next year, and the health crisis continues to evolve in rising and descending waves, even though we finally have a view of a corona vaccine. Consumer and entrepreneurial confidence was rapidly diving down. It is up to this Parliament and this government to restore that confidence as quickly as possible. Some time ago, when I was talking to Minister Dermagne about consumer and entrepreneurial confidence, I was not very happy with the answer, because I was not hopeful that a structural solution could be found in this area. Minister Dermagne, can you now explain to me how that trust will be restored in practice? I am sure colleagues will remember my many motions that were put to the vote here. I was not alone: the first Member who asked the then Minister of Economy, Nathalie Muylle, at the beginning of this year to prepare the economic crisis, when the virus was still far away in China, was accused of staring at a light box like a rabbit. On the other hand, I have all proposed feasible and constructive measures to meet our severely affected entrepreneurs, not only because of falling consumer confidence, but also because of compulsory closures. I am thinking here of the Catering Resolution of March, which refused to link the Greens to a later proposal, because at that time political games were more important than making a joint fight against the poignant scenes that are taking place in the catering industry. I am also thinking of tackling the poor payment behaviour of the federal government, by immediately paying all outstanding undisputed invoices, so that entrepreneurs who are entitled to money for their performance to the federal government could obtain the necessary financial oxygen. I am also thinking of my proposal on private capital funds with tax incentives, the increased investment deduction that was eventually introduced, the demand to talk to forgotten sectors, and so on. I won't name them all here. Crisises, of course, have their negative sides. However, they also have many opportunities, which we must take advantage of. I think we should do everything we can to make our country more competitive, to attract companies and to ensure that they are and remain established here. This means that we need to monitor our productivity figures and therefore create an environment in which entrepreneurship and work are really rewarded. I have said it many times: we are not talking enough about it, because the real economic weather is yet to come. After the phasing out of temporary aid measures to companies, tens of thousands of corona bankruptcies await us which are predicted. I do not intend to create a funeral vote here today: last Sunday, this did the abandoned and forgotten sector of the contact professions already. We must not deal with it too lightly, because coronafaling means indistinguishably the loss of jobs from many thousands of Flemings, means problems in many thousands of Flemish families. It is an open door if we say that our economy and our budget are not doing well. The Federal Planning Bureau estimated on 10 September that the Belgian economy would shrink by 7,4% of GDP this year, and then partially recover in 2021. Since the pandemic is not under control, the European Commission predicted a contraction of 8.4 % in 2020. Everyone says something else, because earlier this week the National Bank came up with figures. The Flemish Interest shares the positive prognosis of the National Bank of Belgium that the effect of the corona crisis would be less severe than feared, especially now that the corona figures are rising again and our neighbouring countries are taking additional measures. In our neighbouring countries, the damage will not be as great as here, because it is much better. We are borrowing half of each euro spent, while in recent years we have invested no less than EUR 70 billion in investment in our economy. For 2021, the National Bank assumes an economic recovery of around 3.5 %, for 2022 3.1 %. Furthermore, the National Bank expects a loss of 100,000 jobs due to the corona crisis. In June 200,000 additional unemployed were reported. Several analysts predict tens of thousands of corona bankruptcies. That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen of this government, that the job losses will be greater than those 100,000 jobs. The fact that Koen Geens is submitting legislative proposals to simplify bankruptcy law because he expects a great deal of pressure on corporate courts says everything. The people have a right to honesty, and politics must also act realistically and decisively. Secretary of State Dermine, you stand for an important assignment in the coming period. However, it will not be easy to give our economy the necessary oxygen, because our room for manoeuvre is too limited. We are dealing with a public debt of more than 120 percent of GDP. Now interest rates are very low, but what is this going to be if the economy goes back and interest rates rise, while we continue to carry that heavy debt with us? On top of that, we find that we know almost the highest taxes: when I look at our neighbouring countries, I become spontaneously jealous. They have room to invest, because in the past they had their business in order. For example, Germany, with a single pull of pens, can reduce VAT to 16% in order to boost the economy. In the Netherlands, public debt is a lot less than ours. We can only dream of that in our country. Secretary of State Dermine himself indicated that we are long behind on our neighbours and that a deficit of as much as EUR 70 billion has been built up in public investment compared to the European average. I wonder, then, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: how is that possible? We have to scribble for a euro, when we have barely invested in this country. We have that high tax burden and a sovereign debt to tell you. This is something you don't get explained to the people. The government's ambition in this is rather political and transparent, namely that public investment will rise from 2.6 % of GDP to 3.5 % in 2024 when elections are held and the economic crisis should have been settled for a long time. In this context, I would like to point out that the federal government cannot achieve much, because according to the National Bank study, the Regions and the Communities are responsible for half of all public investment. The local authorities account for one third and the federal government only 10 percent. So as a federal government, we have only a limited share in the whole. Furthermore, the Secretary of State says that Belgium has been lagging behind in preparing a recovery plan in relation to our European neighbours. Colleagues, that is what I think the world is turning upside down. After all, it was Prime Minister De Croo, who, as then Finance Minister, always replied to my interviews that the turn out of the crisis was a bit later, while all my constructive proposals were voted off in this Chamber. I understand that Mr Dermine was not part of the government at the time, but the conclusion is clear. Then we haven't talked about the definition this government gives to relance. In addition to a number of sexy terms such as hashtag BeSustainable, hashtag BeInclusive, the relic is mainly defined as the acceleration of the transition to a low carbon economy. I can only hope that purple-green will stand for much more than ecology and woolly terms as "inclusive society." We must ask ourselves whether companies that are pumping today are waiting to survive and whose survival is at risk. If they were to read such policy papers, I fear they would feel unimportant. Dear members of the government, to me, relance means boosting our economy. "Being included" means saving existing companies and small self-employed people from ruin. We must remove uncertainty and offer prospects. When I talk about relance, that also means that we need to activate our export-oriented economy. After all, exports generate money, create jobs and also bring money into the hands of the public authorities. The worst thing is that we ourselves have no money for the relance, we stand with our backs against the wall because this country has a major structural problem. As a result, we can only focus on the European subsidy and financing schemes. In fact, there is nothing more than Europe's plan for recovery and resilience, with which we would receive EUR 5.15 billion in grants and EUR 32.8 billion in loans. But don't be under any illusions, nothing is free in life, not even subsidies. In any case, they must be paid back by the taxpayer. For me, the shoe is pinching there, because 37% of that money will have to be used for an ecological transition and 20% for a digital transition. Ministers, Flanders is a real SME country. It is often said that Flemish SMEs are the engine of our economy and Minister Clarinval rightly pointed out that SMEs account for 58% of the jobs, which is very much. It is therefore absolutely right to say that entrepreneurs and self-employed people are the backbone of economic activity in our country and by providing employment for prosperity. If we look at SMEs in absolute figures, we see that Flanders has 653.00, Wallonia 314.000 and Brussels 132.000. In addition, Flanders has 329,000 sole proprietorships, Wallonia 190,000 and Brussels 45,000. More than ever, the claim is confirmed that Flanders is a real SME country and makes a substantial contribution to the economic fabric in Belgium, mostly in the service sector. If we look at the gross value added compared to the staff in SMEs, we get a ratio of 175 % in Flanders. It is also interesting to note that the analysis of SME investment in tangible fixed assets teaches us that 65% of these investments are made in Flanders compared with 14% in Wallonia. At the same time, we see that almost half of our SMEs exist for less than ten years, which puts the finger on the wound in terms of impact and survival, especially in crisis situations such as today. There is no doubt that, in addition to a great deal of human suffering, the pandemic has caused deep wounds in the already existing state debt. My generation will not be paid back the surplus of the past few months itself. The measures taken were, of course, much needed, let us be clear. However, we should not just burn the money, we should spend it in a very targeted way. Let me repeat once again that finding a balance between health and the economy is extremely difficult. I have often argued that our SMEs are suffering and that many thousands of bankruptcies are hanging over our country like a dark cloud, which will involve a lot of job losses. The recent measures were not always easy to understand. I still have the idea that the closure of companies is decided on the feeling, without scientific evidence or justification. It got worse when the Health Minister had the guts to talk about a shock effect. Well, if anything has caused a shock to our entrepreneurs, it is that statement of the Minister. What will certainly cause a shock effect is the government's incomprehensible persistent refusal to allow contact professions to work, while after the first lockdown it has been proved that a contact profession can be carried out almost perfectly provided that certain measures are respected. Such measures are being used with fire. A lot of entrepreneurs who have invested their last pennies see them go up in smoke, while a lot of employees see their savings evaporate. Mr Dermagne, when I asked you a question yesterday, you could not give me an answer. There was no perspective, no consideration for the concerns of the practitioners of contact professions, such as hairdressers. You continued to refer to the existing arrangements. That really let me down. Not only the catering industry and the contact professions are heavily affected, but also all the forgotten sectors that send letters to your cabinets but never receive an answer. That shows very little decency. Enter their invitation. Listen to them and find out what's alive. Don't let them down, because when they contact a cabinet it's because the water is up to them. Much more will have to be done than a right of bridging and a postponement of social contributions, because that means that their business accounts have not been paid. At the moment, there are still a lot of aid measures that keep SMEs right while protecting employment, a kind of artificial coma. On the health front, perhaps the worst is almost behind us, but as I said, it has yet to begin on an economic level. SMEs will fall like flies. I honestly believe it's already five after twelve. What is the objective framework, Minister, with which you are going to identify who has been hit hardest? The policy paper addresses six pillars in terms of support and entrepreneurship stimulation. As you know, I have a weakness for this from my past experience, because I have often seen poignant situations. I have to say, however, that general intentions are expressed without going into any further impact. So I'm still hungry. I see too few concrete proposals and rather an inventory of good intentions, Mr Clarinval. You refer, for example, in your title to the fight against social dumping, without going into more detail. As you know, this is also an important point of contention for the Flemish interest and not so long ago we tabled a motion for a recommendation for a vote in the context of the construction sector, in which we resolutely asked for social dumping to be tackled, which is seriously affecting the competitiveness of our companies. In this sense, we want the Posting of Workers Directive to be revised and the payment of contributions to be compulsory in Belgium. This would not only improve the competitiveness of the construction sector, it would also benefit many other sectors. In addition, you write in your note that you would like to work on the reduced VAT rate of 6% for the demolition and reconstruction of buildings, which would only be temporarily extended to the entire Belgian territory. I understand from Minister Van Peteghem that the necessary measures have been taken in the meantime, but I would like to tell you that you lack an opportunity there. On the one hand, the green thought is at the heart of your coalition agreement. On the other hand, you do not sufficiently encourage the renovation of old houses, by introducing this measure only temporarily, but at the same time introducing a number of important restrictions, such as a maximum habitable area of 200 m2 and the fact that that property must be the first and only house. In fact, in your coalition agreement, you have created expectations that have made people happy with a dead sparrow. That's not a good start and hopefully not a harbinger for what's coming. You also point out that in the context of the need to strengthen our SMEs' finances, you will fight against late payments. Forgive my cynicism, colleagues, but I thought it was just the government that didn't pay the bills in time. In this context, we have indeed previously tabled a motion for a resolution specifically for COOVID-19, where we were convinced that we could find each other, that together we could make a fight against the problem and that colleagues would like to support the proposal. No, I didn't. What also strikes me, ministers, is that you often refer to European legislation, to the transposition of directives and the like. I can only conclude that this government does not take sufficient account of its own powers. Above all, we should have a policy that is tailored to the people of our country, a policy that aims to promote our export-oriented economy, to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies and to ensure that jobs not only remain guaranteed but also that more people can get to work. I understand that fragmentation of powers means that this is not an obvious task, but you undoubtedly know our opinion on it. At the same time, we had hoped that you would be more committed to protecting our companies from international hijackers on the coast, our know-how and the things we are good at, because you will remain on the plain in that respect too. I would say, above all, be careful to simplify the internationalisation of our SMEs, because that is a knife that cuts both ways. You have already pleased me with the ambitions to also focus on local traders and the economic activity in the neighbourhood. We must not forget them. After all, they have been hit several times in the past period. First we had the rise of e-commerce that has severely affected the tissue of local traders and businesses. Then one had to see COOVID-19. Here, too, a further concrete development would have been welcome. Ministers, despite all these good intentions, it will be a matter of guiding our companies through this crisis. Many SMEs had only just digested the 2008 crisis when the next crisis broke out. Although we had already predicted a crisis before the covid outbreak, because the longer it became apparent that the economy was starting to sink, the whole coronage event has cut even deeper into it. Our managers and self-employed people who create prosperity count on us, on this Parliament, on this government. I can therefore only hope that, in addition to as many general measures as possible to prevent dumping, you will also develop an objective framework that will enable us to identify which sectors are more affected than others, and that you, as ministers, will be close to the entrepreneurs and will therefore talk to them to listen to what is alive. I sincerely believe that we can give an extra boost to certain sectors with not too expensive or difficult measures. However, I am pleased that this government wants to focus on regulating fair competition and paying attention to purchasing power and consumer rights. We have had a lot of debates on excessive debt in committee. I understand that Minister Dermagne wants to build on the work that has already been done. The Flemish interest is not insensitive to the problem, but it must not become a one-sided story. Consequently, we ask you to take very specific account of all parties. This means that we do indeed have to address collection costs, but at the same time we must not open the door to nonchalance on payments and be able to claim the creditor in full. The basic principle must remain: you do not buy what you cannot pay. The government must therefore also ensure that people do not get any more into debt. We therefore call for that balance to be kept. Furthermore, you want to evaluate and improve the legal guarantee according to the new EU directive. I hope that you will have the courage to look sufficiently realistically at the problem there. After all, we must be aware that if we impose more on producers, prices will increase effectively and consumers' purchasing power will fall. People are really busy with the price of the goods they buy. In other words, we must ensure that the need for a more circular economy does not entail an irresponsible cost for the consumer. When we talk about circular economy, we must above all be honest with ourselves. For example, companies cannot be obliged to switch to electric cars, while the current ones are exported to Africa to continue driving there. Remarkably, I continue to find the passage on the fight against greenwashing. You, Mr Dermagne, will take action against companies that would make their image greener than it really is. With all due respect, Minister, I believe that there are other priorities in this House. It is some kind of green foil that has been sucked in the coalition agreement, but allow me to say that I always thought that greenwashing was just the green brainwashing of the people, so that she would go along with the green talk. I have noted strange things in the Committee on Economic Affairs prior to the formation of the Vivaldi government. I am thinking of paying back insurance premiums during the first lockdown, introducing maximum prices and so on. Thank God all these measures were measures that did not find a majority because we of Flemish Interest always want to guard common sense and balance. During that period, Flemish Interest often gave the decisive vote to approve or not approve certain initiatives. The Christian Democrats and the Liberals were also critical of this, but today I see that those parties who were directly opposed to each other now sit together in a single majority. I am therefore particularly curious to see to what extent they will maintain their principles from then on. My colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs know that I am acting in a critical but constructive manner. In this sense, we have put forward a lot of recommendations, which you have all voted away. I cannot call that constructive, because the public has little message of political games. I'm gonna take a little hold of it. We asked, for example, in cooperation with the Federal Ministers of Economy and SMEs, to draw up a concrete action plan to restore consumer and entrepreneurial confidence. Voted out! We asked that, in addition to the stated objectives, the best possible use be made of the relance of companies whose survival is threatened today as a result of the corona crisis. Voted out! We asked Parliament to be involved in drawing up the plan for recovery and resilience, which will be submitted to the European Commission by 30 April next year. Voted out! In the short term, we asked for a substantial improvement in the payment behaviour of the federal government, so that invoices are paid in time and without delay. Voted out! We asked that after the phasing-out and the release of the temporary measures following a weakening of the corona pandemic, attention be paid to the further survival of companies and self-employed people. Voted out! We asked to increase the level of e-commerce activity by creating attractive conditions that encourage the establishment of e-commerce companies in Belgium, while respecting the balance between economic activity, the protection of local trade and the protection of workers. Also voted off! Finally, we asked for an objective framework to be established to identify the most affected and exposed sectors as a result of covid, so that targeted measures could be possible. Also voted off! So I can go on for a while. So the Vivaldi government has not made a good start on the economy. Finally, I would like to say that economics will be one of the most important issues in the coming period. This means that the five ministers and secretaries of state who are familiar with the economic theme will play an important role and that you will have to fulfil your role as crisis managers. Our economy is fragile, the economic fabric is on fire. Small decisions can sometimes have a large scope. So turn the wheel around and proceed with thoughtful thinking. Because our people and companies are counting on it. I promise to continue to harass you, ministers and state secretaries, with interplays and constructive recommendations on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u14	I still see Mr Verreyt on the list of speakers. I assume, Mr Verreyt, that your speech to the point will not be read and interesting and interesting to those who have been awake for 24 hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u15	Madam President, I have been waiting for my speech since 10 a.m. yesterday. I was promised yesterday that it would be before noon. Then it became last night and then last night, and then it became this morning. Now I'll be here by noon. My wife will not believe that I am still working here in Parliament. I will make my speech anyway, but I promise it will be shorter than planned. We in Parliament are taking one measure after another to save entrepreneurs and self-employed people, but above all the jobs they create. The argument for a robust social status and a revaluation of the status of the self-employed does not fall on a cold stone. The current corona times will cause irreparable damage to the perception of this status. So there's still a lot of work to be done. The first of your policy axes, Minister, is the continuation of the measures taken in the context of the covid crisis. Good initiatives have already been taken, but we note that some sectors which are also heavily affected are still being forgotten. The policy for dealing with the economic consequences and the relance will have to be much more finer. We therefore call for a thorough analysis of the sectors and no longer linear measures, but very targeted interventions based on demonstrable and measurable data. Let that be our suggestion for the guidance of the self-employed at the relance, which hopefully can really start at the beginning of 2021. A number of rights for self-employed workers can best be compared with those of employees as soon as possible. It would improve simplicity and clarity. As many as 35% of the self-employed are in the secondary sector. They pay contributions without ever being entitled to anything. It is beautifully described as a'solidarity contribution' to cover up the fact that it is actually a flat tax. But it doesn't have to be like that. Why can this contribution not be subject to a right, for example, that a pension is granted on a pro rata basis on the basis of the payment of that contribution? This will be relatively small in many cases, but anyone who has been self-employed for 30 years and has paid his contributions correctly can get something back for us. This brings us to the second axis, that of pensions. 85 per cent of the self-employed persons surveyed are concerned and increasingly dissatisfied with the low amount of their pension. You want the pensions of the self-employed, the workers and the civil servants to grow together without losing them. So you are de facto talking about an increase in pensions for the self-employed. That will be quite a job if you know that in the meantime other pensions will also be increased. For the Flemish Interest, anyone who has worked a full career or more deserves a decent pension of at least 1,500 euro net. We are far from there for many former self-employed people. This inequality has been dragging on for decades and has been admitted for decades. Let's get this over with. An increase of good 11 % over four years is a step in the right direction, but will not make up for the difference. However, it is a good thing that we are finally trying to get rid of the correction coefficient. It has been for a long time that the General Management Committee has also insisted on this. This measure, introduced in 1984 with the introduction of the proportional pension, is no longer in line with reality. We will not repeat the figures of this study, which were drawn up by your own services. Their opinions and decisions are, however, crystal clear: the correction factor must be lifted to 1. For our group, it is preferable to have retroactive effect, since the distortion has been going on for years. However, you will not introduce this until 1 January 2022 for career years starting from 2021. It's way too late. You take the advice of your own services next to you. However, these opinions are based on the harsh reality. Keeping the system affordable and socially acceptable is the task. The alignment of certain rights of self-employed workers with those of employees is good, but it can be even better. Communication can also be clearer and more frequent. Supporting people with disabilities who want to carry out an independent activity is welcome. It would have a special meaning for some of them. It can increase their self-respect and give them a role in society, but the government must also dare to do that exercise: what jobs can be carried out by which people with disabilities? Moreover, the public authorities must serve as an example in this respect. We are aware that powers are at different levels here, but this should not prevent us from drawing up a sound plan of action. The various actors in the disability sector can certainly provide their input. Many RSZ discounts are already being granted to many professional groups, but if there is one group that would actually deserve it on a constant basis, it is the disabled. It would be a win-win situation for all parties, but above all it would be a very social measure. The Flemish Interest will fully support the initiatives you take in this regard. However, we stress that this must always be done on a voluntary basis and that there can be no obligation whatsoever. It is also necessary to ensure that they do not lose the level of their existing benefits. For example, a first part of their independent income can be classified as non-taxable income. The measures taken must therefore be based on a high level of social concern and not primarily on public revenue. We can be brief about the fight against fraud. The matter is with at least three ministers. This clearly shows that there is little incentive to really tackle this. How else can one interpret the changing responsibility in this regard? We therefore look forward to your intended requalifications of employment relationships with impatience. Whether it will be effective in the fight against false self-employment, I do not know. If it is really one of the ways to stop social dumping, you will find a supporter in our group, although we think there are more efficient ways to do so. The possible introduction of the concept of "economic dependency" could have a major impact on many sectors, for example for independent business owners of banking and insurance companies, accountants, auditors and law firms. Finally, this government's policy can allow self-employed people to grow and flourish, to form the backbone of our economy, to be the driving force behind value creation. But then we need a policy, a policy that makes the rules simpler, a policy that rewards calculated risks rather than mercilessly punishing them, a policy that regulates a level playing field between domestic and foreign companies, with equal controls and equal enforcement of our Belgian legislation, but also a policy that at least pays its invoices on time and finally refers the shame of late payment of more than half of the invoices to history.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u16	Mrs Houtmeyers, I will also start with a quote: "To Save the Economy, Save People First." It is the conclusion of a study by the Institute for New Economic Thinking. I really think that we must have this in mind, each and every one of us, in the decisions we make, in the way we defend them and in the way we bring them to the people. We must first defeat this virus, this pandemic to save our economy, our businesses, our entrepreneurs and to save the jobs that go with it. I really think it's essential to say it and repeat it. It's something that's beginning to be known, but it's really the priority. We will not revive our economy, we will not support our businesses, our entrepreneurs, our independents if we do not fight, if we do not defeat this virus and this pandemic. It is the best and the first measure of support and recovery for our economy. This is the first and best measure to boost consumer and business confidence. I really think it is essential to have this in mind in each of our interventions and in each of our decisions. I would also like to be very clear. While I have talked a lot about consumer protection in connection with the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, I have also talked a lot about the economy and the importance of businesses, entrepreneurs, self-employed people for the vitality of our economy and more broadly for the functioning of our society. It is, of course, thanks to economic activity that we create employment, that we finance our social security and that we can have redistributive policies. This is essential for me as Minister of Economy and Labour. There is no opposition between protecting consumers, citizens, citizens and supporting our economic world, our economic fabric. I will also recall the analyses of the National Bank of Belgium regarding the recovery just after the first wave of this pandemic. This stronger recovery is due to household consumption, particularly private consumption. When we support and defend consumers, we also support and defend our businesses, our entrepreneurs and our self-employed. We mustn't oppose them. They go hand in hand. Of course, the right balance must be struck between the rights and duties of each individual. This includes, Mr Van Lommel, the transposition of a whole series of directives. It is well known that Europe, the European regulatory framework, has a strong role to play in consumer protection. Within the government, together with the Secretary of State responsible for this matter, it is clear that one of our priorities will be to transpose these directives in order to guarantee the rights of our consumers and to ensure that their purchasing power is guaranteed and protected; it is indeed primarily this purchasing power that enables our economy, our businesses, our entrepreneurs, our independents, our local businesses to be able to view the future with serenity, which is not the case today. Let's be clear! Today we are on a plateau in terms of contamination, hospitalization and death. Are we in a third wave? I hope not, but I don't know. We will clearly have to continue to support our economy and entrepreneurs, no matter what the cost, as we have done so far because we have seen that it keeps our heads out of the water to a range of key economic actors. Was that enough? I don't think so. Should we do more? Should we do better? Should we do things in a more targeted way? I'm convinced of that. So far, we have acted urgently: first wave, second wave, with a series of devices that have for some have been modified, amended, improved compared to the first wave. But, indeed, we have acted urgently in the face of an unknown situation which also calls, each and every one, and I take my part, to a lot of humility. We do not yet know much about this virus, its lasting impacts on our economy and socio-economic fabric. Have things been done? Certainly! Have they been effective? Certainly, too! The National Bank pointed it out. Was that enough? I don't think so. We must not forget anyone and we will be careful – I am speaking on behalf of my colleagues – to support everyone who will need them in order to keep their heads out of the water and to ensure that we can go through this crisis, this second wave, hoping with all our heart that we are not at the edge of a third wave, with the least possible damage. There'll be damage. There have, of course, already been. We are confronted with economic tragedies, collective and individual tragedies. Mrs Houtmeyers, I do not agree with you about the psychological support that the government has decided to put on the table on the initiative of David Clarinval and Karine Lalieux, in support of Frank Vandenbroucke. I can tell you that we have received, as David Clarinval will be able to say in a few moments, a lot of requests and also a lot of support from the employers' federations, including federations representing the independents regarding this measure and the need for this measure. It will respond effectively to the distress of a series of independents on the ground. I really think, despite all the respect I have for you and for your experience, that this measure is a good measure. It is part of a range, along with other measures, that will have to be completed, I have just said, and I repeat, in particular by focusing more specifically on certain needs. Some realities share characteristics with other situations, but also have singularities, peculiarities due to the structure of economic activity itself of certain enterprises or of certain independents, or to the way in which they are permanently affected by the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis. I am thinking of the sectors you mentioned: events, the travel sector. We could also talk about Horeca, since we are probably not considering a short-term reopening. These sectors may need to be given even more specific, sustained and specific attention with regard to the support measures that will be put on the table. I can assure you that we are in almost daily contact - I am speaking for myself and for my colleagues - and that we have never refused to meet with representatives of any particular sector. Our doors are open. Our mailboxes are also open. It is also possible to call us. I can tell you that meetings have taken place and that they will continue to take place in the coming hours, days and weeks. Mrs Houtmeyers, Mr Van Lommel, of course we have attention for our self-employed, for our SMEs, who are largely living our economic fabric, who are stimulating it, who are making it what it is today in Belgium. I will not distinguish between the different regions. For me, an entrepreneur is an entrepreneur. An independent is an independent, wherever he is. What I welcome is how they contribute to our economy and to our life in society. We must therefore clearly continue to pay particular attention to these SMEs, which are sometimes less well equipped to cope with the crisis, in the face of the circumstances, in relation to the possibility of seizing the various aid schemes. Despite the fact that aid is available and is available, we have seen that some SMEs, some independents, do not have the reflex or the possibility to appeal to it and benefit from it. This will be the subject of special attention. It is true that one should not treat a large company – a multinational company with many workers – as one does with an SME or an independent company that does not necessarily have the same means and resources or needs, even though all of them are hard hit by this crisis. It will be necessary to continue to combat abuses. You talked about it each and every one of us. We have been confronted with a series of abuses. This is partly due to the fact that we and the previous government wanted to act quickly with quick measures, simplified procedures for part, some lighter controls in order to implement rapid action for those who needed it. It's also mainly due to the fact that we've been confronted with cheaters and even robbers. Recent developments have highlighted this: through federal inspection services in collaboration with the judiciary, a network of criminals has been dismantled. He had thrown himself into the various aid schemes made available to our companies, and that was illegal. As a result of the judicial investigation, I will not go further on the subject, but I can tell you that the checks have taken place and will continue to take place to ensure that the aid is not diverted and that it benefits those who need it most. The case that made the headlines yesterday or the day before – I am somewhat lost in timing – is the result of a collaboration between the inspection services and the judiciary, which is proof that the fight against fraud is one of the priorities of this government, in the context of the crisis, but also more generally, in the context of policies and priorities set over the medium and long term, in particular within the framework of the CIRS. I invite everyone to consult the operational plan and the priorities set by ICSAR in collaboration with the various relevant ministers. The fight against social dumping is a top priority and the means will be put in place to ensure that this fight against social fraud – especially social dumping – is a priority and that we guarantee our entrepreneurs and workers fair conditions and fair competition. I will pay particular attention to this and have stressed it in my policy note. I repeat this to you today, in particular on the basis of a burning news that has highlighted how our inspection services are mobilised daily to combat these totally unacceptable behaviors. The future looks like a cloudy sky, with that and there a few rays of sunshine. In any case, it is certain that the weeks and months ahead are of particular concern for our economic fabric, for our businesses and for the workers who are their ankles. This is true in large part because of the crisis of the coronavirus, but also because of the great uncertainty about the outcome of the Brexit negotiations. Since the decision taken in 2016 by the British people to leave the European Union, the federal and regional administrations have been working to provide support, first by raising awareness and informing our companies about the consequences that will be important for them, whether in the context of a deal or – even if I do not wish – of a no deal. This is in addition to the difficulties they face in the context of the health and economic crisis. You asked me about the budgeting of some of these support measures for our companies. You know that a system has been set up on the basis of the law of 6 March to enable them to resort to temporary economic unemployment and thus prevent them from leaving in this phase of uncertainty and difficulties, from 1 January 2021, without knowing what this date will look like. I wholeheartedly hope that we will be able to land and that everything will be done to negotiate a balanced agreement. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the tireless work done so far by the negotiating team led by Michel Barnier. I also welcome the last-minute position and opening of the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, as well as the position adopted by French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who have refused bilateral negotiations, in order to give greater priority to negotiations involving all the Member States of the European Union. This attitude therefore deserves to be welcomed. So, the consequences, we don't know them yet. On the other hand, we have put in place mechanisms to support these companies. And the budgets are in those of the ONEM, especially as regards temporary unemployment. Budget lines that include support measures that will be activated or not activated depending on the situation could be identified. What about objectivity, objectiveness of the sectors that will be strongly affected? We already know them more or less. I have already answered one of your questions yesterday morning, and the SPF Economy published this morning an update of these studies on the sectors that will be mainly affected, first of all by customs duties on exports and imports. This confirms what I mentioned in answer to your question. These are, of course, the motor vehicles and trucks sector, the agricultural products sector, the carpets sector, copper wires, PE-HD plastics and certain automatic control equipment. It will be necessary to continue to objective on the basis of the outcome of the negotiations and of the content of this agreement or of the absence of an agreement, but I plead here and elsewhere that things should be done on an impartial, dispassionate basis and that the necessary support can be provided where it will be sorely lacking and truly for the companies which will be affected more strongly by this Brexit, whatever the form, regardless of the location of these companies, whether they are established in Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia or even in the German-speaking Community. If we are to help those who need it most, it will also depend on the decisions of the European Commission in relation to the adjustment reserve, the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, whose conditions and contours are not yet agreed today. We know why, since the negotiations are still under way and the economic sector has urged us first to make every effort to reach an agreement. The Echo and De Tijd of this week still mentioned this. Why is there no plan B at the federal level, at the regional level? Because, first of all, we do not know the content of this plan B and then, because the priority of priorities is negotiation to the end, until the extra mile to try to reach an agreement. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the answer that I could give you, on the understanding that my esteemed colleagues will not fail to supplement these elements, depending on their respective competences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I agree 100% with Mr Dermagne's answers. In addition, I will add some elements, but for the rest, I must admit that, in order not to be too long, I will not repeat what has been said and which I fully share. Since March, the federal government has taken many emergency measures to mitigate the economic consequences of this crisis. Again on November 6, the government put 38 measures on the table that would either extend old measures or activate new ones to support our economy. As Mr Dermagne said earlier, we know that some new measures will have to be taken, most probably for certain sectors. Event, cultural, horeca, travel, and tourism were cited as likely to have the impact of closure longer than others. It should also be noted that a number of other sectors can work, but still suffer the impact of the crisis through a decrease in turnover due to the epidemiological situation in which we are currently in. Let me mention two measures related to my skills. The bridge right is on the table of this assembly. The right to walker 21 will be proposed to you for the vote. It gives a perspective for next year, not only to the self-employed who are now closed, but also, and this is the main novelty, to the liberal professions who were unable to benefit from this right, because they were still active. If they suffer a 40% reduction in turnover, they will be eligible for aid. Even when one can work, there are situations in which one is not able to have a fully adequate income at the moment. I also note the psychological support. Mrs. Houtmeyers, I heard that you found this unhelpful. We have set up a hotline for self-employed people at the level of INASTI. I can assure you that, unfortunately, many calls are made every day and that a whole series of independents are in distress and, sometimes, no longer know who to turn to. It is therefore important to also be able to help them psychologically in order to avoid dramas as we experienced in Liège, a few weeks ago. It seems to me that it is the duty of the State to make psychological aid available free of charge in a simple mechanism. This issue will be on the government table tomorrow and I have no doubt that it can be implemented quickly thanks to the good cooperation of colleagues Lalieux and Vandenbroucke, among others. Besides economic and financial support, psychological support is also very important. With regard to the second element of your speech, Mrs Houtmeyers, namely Brexit, it is clear that, for Belgium, the United Kingdom is the fourth largest importer of Belgian products. Whether or not there is a trade agreement, there will be a serious impact on import and export controls from 1 January 2021 onwards. In particular, with respect to food products, the Federal Food Chain Security Agency (FCSA) has established 115 full-time equivalents to oversee and carry out additional controls on the import and export of agricultural and agri-food products, among others. Recruitment has been completed and new employees have already been trained or are in the process of being further trained to be deployed on time. That seems to me to be an important element. Also as part of the Brexit, the Brexit Impact Scan has been set up. This mechanism allows companies to already test the potential red tape they will have to complete if they want to continue working with England. This is a way of anticipating the administrative burdens which, unfortunately, will result from the change in the situation after 1 January 2021. We have therefore also anticipated in this respect that an adequate response will be given and that exporting companies will lose as little time as possible in their work. Mr Van Lommel, I did not say that Flanders was an SME country. I said that Belgium was an SME country. It's a little different because it's a little wider. I quoted the figures by saying that 58% of jobs come from our SMEs. Indeed, SMEs are the economic fabric of our country. I think everyone shares this analysis. Belgian SMEs are indeed suffering from the crisis. They need oxygen to withstand the unprecedented shock they are experiencing. It is therefore vital to relaunch them and boost their structural growth, in particular by directing investment towards SMEs. My colleague Thomas Dermine will certainly want to talk to you about the investment plan which coordinates the measures and which one of the priorities focuses on entrepreneurship with the help of SMEs in particular. I'll let him touch you with a word. In 2015, in this noble assembly, I participated in the drafting of a resolution on social dumping. A whole range of elements of this text could be implemented in the coming years. It's a point I care about. Fair competition is fundamental to enable all companies to be on an equal footing and to compete on an equal footing in the face of international competition. Social dumping is, par excellence, which prevents fair competition. We will implement this 2015 resolution that was voted in Parliament. Mr Verreyt, you asked me questions about the social status of the self-employed. I propose, if you agree, that this be discussed in the debate which will take place in a few minutes and which concerns precisely the social status of the self-employed. Madam President, since Mr Verreyt agrees, I have therefore finished this chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u18	Madam President, Mr Van Lommel, I will respond briefly to what you said about recovery policy and the recovery and resilience plan. I recognize a number of points that we have already discussed in committee. So I'll give you a short-by-the-turn reaction. I am glad that you also think that public investment is very important for our future, to give perspective to the citizens. We are going through a cyclical crisis, the corona crisis, and we have very serious structural challenges ahead, in particular digital transition and climate transition. In order to solve these problems, we need investment. That is very important and it is one of the things that has changed the corona crisis. When the then government drew up an investment plan two years ago, it was without budget and without resources. Now, two years later, after the corona crisis, we have oxygen to make investments. You say that these means are limited. Indeed, they are limited in relation to the scale of the challenges before us; but they are inconvenient with the means of investment that have never been available to a government for several decades. And this is due to two factors, which you probably don't like too much. The first is the fact that the European Union has made a fantastic leap forward in creating a pooled financing instrument. It's a first in history. This may be one of the legacies of this coronavirus crisis that we can rejoice at. Secondly, Belgium's share of this European funding package is particularly important in relation to the size of the country. This is in particular linked to a socio-economic differential between the regions of this country. As the European Commission overshadows certain regions, Wallonia benefits from a significant part of these funds. Your debt concerns are in some way legitimate. However, I would like to make a number of clarifications. First, the absolute level of debt does not matter. There are economies that live in a very stable way with 150 or 200 per cent debt without ever being put at risk by their creditors. Conversely, there are savings that cannot sustain 30 or 40 per cent of debt. What matters is not the level of debt, but the burden of debt. And today, as you pointed out, we are at a very low rate. I think it should be stressed that the Debt Agency is doing a remarkable job of rescheduling and finally blocking these current low rates in the medium term. Second nuance on debt is that one debt is not the other. What applies to a household also applies to a state. When you owe yourself to go on vacation or when you contract gambling debts, it's not the same as when you contract debt to acquire an asset that has a profitability. The same applies to a state. The purpose of the investment that is being made today, and hence the debt associated with these investments, is to make productive investments in relation to the challenges of the environmental and digital transition, to support economic activity, productivity and the activities of the self-employed. David Clarinval emphasized it. In a way, we are investing, today, to protect or to create tax revenues, tomorrow, or in a way to support and ensure the financial sustainability of our country. Third grade with regard to debt: today, debt is actually created, in any case for the RRF part of the plan, at European level, through a mutualised instrument, and it is created at the same time as the European Central Bank is conducting massive operations to buy back public debt, i.e. virtually creating a form of perpetual debt, which is quite unique in European monetary history. We create debt instruments that are virtual debt sustainability. That's for the debt! The last point concerns the preparation, which you stressed the Belgian State's delay in this matter. Indeed, we took a few months late, because it was only in July that the instrument was communicated by the European Commission. We have thus lost the two summer months to work on it compared to other European governments. If I may reassure you, Mr Van Lommel, we are in constant contact with the European Commission and we have done – I would like to stress this – collaborative work of co-construction with the governments of all the federated entities (Flanders, Wallonia Brussels and the various cabinets of the federal government). This considerable work, carried out in recent weeks, allows me to say today that there is no signal that we will not be able to meet the European deadlines set at the end of March. If you were concerned that we could not meet the deadline, I would reply that there is a common guideline for all countries: that of 31 March. What matters in the end is the finish line that is unique for all countries and no matter when we started. The delay forces us to work faster, which we do, but in no way prevents us from crossing the finish line in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u19	Thank you, Ministers and Secretary of State, for your intervention. I think there are a lot of things we can agree on. We all want what's best for that entrepreneur and that consumer. But there will also be a number of issues on which we will be more difficult to agree because our focus and approach is different. I give a concrete example of this, which both Minister Dermange and Minister Clarinval mentioned about the psychologist. I believe, of course, that this is an added value, that psychologist and psychological assistance. I think, of course, that we should make our entrepreneurs more mentally resilient, as we still need to support people. However, I do not think it is the responsibility of the government to pay for this. More crucial and necessary measures are needed. This is a different approach, including for consumers. In the interest that we attach to entrepreneurs and consumers, we differ somewhat. I believe that we will be able to discuss this further in the committees in the coming months. Out of respect for my colleagues who are waiting almost 27 hours, I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u20	In particular, thanks to Ministers Dermagne and Clarinval, as well as Secretary of State Dermine, who, unlike other members of the government, have responded in depth, in detail and ad hocly to a number of concerns which I have expressed here. We find each other on a number of matters, but you have not been able to convince me on a number of other matters. My concern, and perhaps yours too, is employment in the future. That is something that we certainly need to work hard on. As far as the objective framework is concerned, I understand that you want to go along with it. That objective framework must be available to me for lockdown measures, on the one hand, and for support for the sectors affected, on the other. Please do it quickly because we cannot wait. Finally, Mr Dermine says that we can bear 150 or 200 % of debt if necessary. That's perfectly possible. I do not think we should go to southern European states and watch over the resources available to us as a government as a good housekeeper. I think that this is mainly due to a structural problem that we have in that country with regard to finance. I refer to my colleague, Mr Vermeersch, who has already intervened extensively on this issue. For the rest, I think we will often meet in the committees and in the plenary to discuss this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u21	Our economy and entrepreneurs must be saved, but above all the jobs they create. That remains our first concern. I'm glad this is the first concern for you too. Eight months after the start of the crisis, the urgency phase is over. Now we need to be able to work deeper, more specific and more targeted. Especially for the forgotten sectors, but also for the many large and small enterprises that are the backbone of our economy and society. There may be politicians who can survive without backbone, but the vast majority of our population can't. So let's protect and cherish this spine. For this we need, among other things, the re-evaluation of the status of the self-employed. Let's get on with the team and get to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u22	Madam President, we have had to wait a long time for this part of the debate. I hope that Minister Vandenbroucke will be able to connect quickly. It is an important part of the policy he has proposed in his policy paper. When we consider the intentions of purple-green, it is actually a complete mystery how one wants to activate the inactive. Social benefits, such as unemployment benefits, will be substantially increased. On the other hand, the government does not propose an increased degressivity of unemployment or the SWT. That was something the Di Rupo government dared to do. Financial accountability as a lever against the refusal of disabled persons or their employers to participate in a reintegration process is also being postponed. A measure that can yield EUR 100 million per year, according to the Court of Auditors, but above all more active people. I do not think we should convince each other that if people can participate properly in the labour market, it will benefit their own well-being and well-being. Instead, the government will develop an online calculation tool to convince inactive people that working for them is more interesting and profitable than not working. When I read that, Minister, I suddenly get the idea that if the difference between working and non-working is so small and so small that one has to calculate it first with a tool, which is precisely the problem. This purple-green government has made increasing the level of effectiveness an absolute spearhead of its policy. The target is 80 % efficacy in 2030. Eighty percent by the end of the next legislature. Kicking the can down the road . We also see this in the concrete measures that this government intends to take to boost this level of activity. 'Cause there aren't any. You can say that this is short-lived from the opposition banks. It is not, however. You link the increase in the level of effectiveness with a payback effect in your budget. The Court of Auditors is very clear about that. It's about 50 million euros for next year. We have also tabled an amendment to delete that return of EUR 50 million. You are free to delete it or approve it, but this government is really very wealthy. The Court of Auditors has said something interesting about this. I quote: 'The government wants to reach an employment rate of 80% of the active population by 2030. I believe that the expected payback effect of this policy will gradually increase from EUR 50 million in 2021 to EUR 400 million in 2024. In order to achieve this return, the government assumes that 2,500 additional people will be employed in 2021 and 2024 as a result of the measures that will be taken to achieve that objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u23	In this context, the Court of Auditors points out that the figures only translate a government policy instinct but are not based on a specific macroeconomic analysis. There is also no precise timetable for implementing these measures.' In other words, the government is counting on itself and you are not doing anything to reform our labour market policy towards more activation. The Court of Auditors is sweeping the floor with your labour market policy in the quote I have just given. It's an empty box. Doing nothing, colleagues, is also a choice. It's not ours, but apparently it's yours. The recruitment of a first employee has been subject to a full exemption from the patronal social security contribution since 1 January 2016. That exemption is for an indefinite period but the recruitment of that worker must be carried out by 31 December of this year at the latest. The exemption in question is also not linked to a specific employee but to the initial recruitment. When the first employee leaves the company and is replaced by someone else, that exemption shall continue to apply to that replacement. If we do nothing for New Year's, this exemption will be removed after 1 January for first recruitment. That while a similar target group discount for the second to the sixth recruitment continues, which will put us in an absurd situation. For new recruitments of the first employee there would therefore be no target discount after New Year but for the second to the sixth employee there would be. You have indicated in your government agreement and your policy statement that you want to continue this target discount for the recruitment of a first employee and evaluate it next year. We support this, but we note that you have not taken any initiative to extend it beyond the new year. This is why we tabled an amendment in committee to continue the target discount for the recruitment of a first employee after 31 December so that there would be a level playing field for all start-ups and SMEs. But above all, small businesses and self-employed people would continue to recruit knowing that the threshold for initial recruitment for employers is often the highest threshold they have to overcome. If we want to pursue policies to increase the level of activity in the future, it is extremely important that new and small enterprises are encouraged to employ employees. Maintaining that target group discount for the recruitment of a first employee after the end of this year remains therefore an important instrument in a future labour market policy aimed at activating. In addition, it is difficult to justify the exclusion of new employers from a target group discount in the recruitment of a first employee while other employers who would recruit the first employee for an indefinite period continue to benefit from a target group discount equivalent to the full patronial basic social security contribution. Although the extension of these measures is contained in your government agreement and is re-established in the policy statement, a few days ago the purple majority parties in committee did not approve our amendment to provide that legal certainty to those young and small enterprises even after New Year. Then I cannot get the impression that the openness of this government and the majority parties only extends so far. There is no room for constructive, even much-needed opposition proposals. So much for this new political culture. Don't panic, ladies and gentlemen, we have retabled this amendment in this plenary session, so you will have the opportunity to recapture yourself. That is also necessary: doing nothing is a choice and doing nothing means again a significant tax increase of De Croo and co. This time for the first recruitments from 1 January 2021. This tax increase is therefore directly at the expense of employment. Doing nothing is really not an option. What you're actually doing with this government is worse than doing nothing. Unfortunately, you are doing something: the wrong thing. You are announcing a series of measures to promote unemployment and inactivity. You do the opposite of what you propagate. First of all, you make sure that work, compared to non-working, becomes less rewarding than before. In fact, you are increasing the benefit for the inactive: the living wage is rising sharply, unemployment benefits are rising by 4.5 % by 2024. On the other hand, there is no strengthening of the degressivity of this unemployment benefit, let alone a limitation of it over time. This still makes us unique and a curiosity in Europe. An additional EUR 75 million is also provided for the reform of the artist's statute. More expenditure on artists' unemployment: I suspect that will not be to make that statute more active. That'll probably be the opposite. There is also a further extension of leave arrangements. However, in the course of the inquiry debate, the government was proud that this system would be simplified. Birth leave is doubled from 10 to 20 days. The corona time has been a succession of missed opportunities in the field of activation. The temporary unemployment benefit, which is actually 65% of gross earnings in normal circumstances, has been increased to 70% in recent months and supplemented by an RVA contribution of EUR 5.63 per day. A premium of EUR 10 per day was added recently as soon as you are temporarily unemployed for 52 days. Really motivating to get people to work and keep them isn't, of course. We pay people more and more to do less and less. Our system of temporary unemployment is aimed at paying people not to work, whereas it should focus on re-schooling and retraining employees in their own company, following the Dutch model. It doesn't have to be carbon copy of the Dutch model, but we have to look over the wall. Also in corona time, you have to give employees and employers the opportunity and encourage them to prepare for the future, especially when their turnover has fallen dramatically, as is the case for many companies today. I have advocated this several times over the last few months, but purple-green is still in that area too. I really cannot understand why we are not using temporary unemployment benefits to pay people to prepare for the future, but only to force people to sit at home and do nothing. Worse still, for workers whose seventeen-year-old son must stay at home because the school is closed because of corona, temporary unemployment has even become a right. There is no longer any consultation between employer and employee in this area. The organization of work in the company that is already under pressure from the corona infections is thus even more affected, while that seventeen-year-old can perfectly take care of himself. Even if parents can agree to work at home with the employer, temporary unemployment has become a right which is a dam broken by inactivity. When this temporary unemployment becomes a right, these agreements with the employer no longer need to be made in order to solve a possible problem of care. We pay people to stay at home, when there is often no real need to do so, and I refer to that perfectly healthy teenager who can take care of himself when the school closes for a day or even a week. In the last few months, benefits have been put in place which, in too many cases, have led to people having a higher income than when they went to work. So much for the principle of social security! There too, you do not encourage people to go back to work or stay. That's very bad. In addition, many of these aids are particularly sensitive to fraud and are not very finely meshed or targeted. That too is no longer justifiable. Minister Dermagne said a moment ago, and he is right in saying that there was a need to act quickly in the first days of the lockdown, with socio-economic support measures. We fully agree with that. In the meantime, however, a lot of time has been lost and the measures should have been refined a long time ago. Witness to this is the fraud that we have heard this week and which would amount to EUR 2 million and have led to 25 arrests. It is, of course, very good that this social fraud is detected and dealt with. Better yet it would be to prevent her, with modern technology based on data. We are in the infancy with this country and certainly with this federal government, and we do not see any concrete action: there is only an announcement policy on extra income from the fight against social fraud, but we do not read that how we want to achieve it. We didn't choose Corona. The members of the government do choose every day how to deal with the consequences of corona and not deal with it. The social cost of tackling the corona crisis in this country risks becoming a multiple of the social damage caused by the coronavirus itself. In the meantime, we are also making it extremely difficult for a lot of healthier people and companies who were incredibly healthy for the corona crisis. So we hypothesize our collective future. Too often today, Corona seems to be the excuse not only to let a number of fundamental freedoms go on the shovel, but also not to hold a fundamental debate with all the cards on the table about the social cost of today's corona policy. I say this not only as a politician who is concerned about the impact of this social cost on our social security, but also and above all as a person who sees what the current corona policy is doing to a lot of people. This social cost, which is the result of policy choices, does not just happen to us. He will have a huge impact on our social security, both in the short and long term. In the meantime, budgetary plans are already getting out of hand: the balance for 2021 is already EUR 7.5 billion. In 2018 and 2019 it was about 2 to 3 billion euros, so that is a significant increase. Not unimportant: the cost of corona has not even been fully taken into account in that sharp increase in the amount of balance! Additional expenditure on social security and social assistance is also foreseen for 2021, mainly as a result of the increased benefits. Compensatory measures within social security are hardly taken. Not a minor detail: at the time when the budget was laid down in this Parliament, it did not take into account a second corona wave, which was already in full swing. One might think: "no regrets, a higher level of activity, more people working means more social contributions to finance social security." However, we can see that social security will in future be financed less and less from social contributions. In 2018, social security was still financed at 61.9 % from social contributions, and in 2019 it was still more than 60%. By 2021, that will only be 55.8 %. The Court of Auditors actually thinks that that's even an overestimate. So it is perhaps even worse than what the figures presented are now suggesting to us. Basically, this government does not believe its fine words about a higher level of activity itself, why should we believe them? The government wants to focus on the fight against social fraud through more efficient cooperation and coordination between the various social inspection services. However, it does not come forward with any concrete proposals to achieve this. I have asked several times about it in the various relevant ministers. They do not formulate any intention, for example to merge the thirteen different federal administrations carrying out social inspection tasks. There are also four federal ministers responsible for the SIOD and the coordination of social inspection services. So people enough to point out to each other in the coming years if the results of the fight against social fraud are not forthcoming and the EUR 2.3 billion additional revenue from this fight is not forthcoming. I asked three ministers how much of these EUR 2.3 billion will be collected from the fight against social and fiscal fraud, precisely because of the fight against social fraud. None of them replied. Apparently, they have no idea. There is nothing in the budget documents about the exact proceeds from social fraud. I understand the caution of the ministers who drew up the budget. There is therefore not one specific measure that could provide additional income from the fight against social fraud. That's "calculate your empire squared." That's what the Court of Auditors says. The Court of Auditors is even wondering loudly whether the planned additional revenue is not too premature. I also referred earlier to the case of fraud which has recently come to light. It is estimated at EUR 2 million. This fraud is indeed just the tip of the iceberg, for the very simple reason that we are nowhere in the fight against social fraud in the field of data mining, while many other players do. The Flemish government, for example, has already started working in the first lockdown with private players to detect and prevent a number of cases. They are taking steps forward. The question arises as to why even that is not a concrete measure included in the policy statement, which we can see translated into the budget in a realistic way. None of that is the case. Colleagues, there is also a strong focus on the role of the social partners in the reform, modernisation and management of social security. The social partners are in this story, for this purple-green government, the alpha and the omega of our labour market policy, and by extending the whole of social security. The policy statement even contains literal passages from texts by the social partners which support the importance of the social partners themselves. This means, at best, that the social partners will be your excuse not to do anything, which in itself would be very bad. In the worst case scenario, it means that this government is going to go further and further into the hands of the trade unions, which we have actually seen in recent months. The budget presented is a series of good intentions, but it is no more than that. With good intentions, one does not buy anything of course, except the hot air that this purple-green government sells when it comes to active labour market policies and sustainable social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u24	Mr President, Flanders is hit harder in terms of employment during this crisis than Brussels and Wallonia, which is easily explained by the higher employment rate in that first region. The higher one is on the ladder, the lower one can fall. That's not a new phenomenon. The Flemish economy is also much more cyclically sensitive than the Walloon or Brussels economy. In the event of a relapse, this makes itself feel stronger and, on the contrary, with a revival, the revival is stronger in Flanders. More than half of the active population in Wallonia works for the government. It goes without saying that these jobs are a little more crisis-proof than the jobs in the real economy. The objective is to increase the employment rate in the coming years, to reduce job losses and to focus on training. These are all noble objectives in themselves, but would it not be better to give the regions financial and organisational freedom, each with its own personality and responsibility, and each with the financial consequences of its choice? Even more important than unemployment in itself is the large group of inactive people. If we want to increase the rate of effectiveness to 80%, the ambition by 2030 according to the government agreement, then we should focus on this, but where is the government's action plan to achieve this? The increase in the lowest benefits can be welcomed as a social party, but what happens to the benefits that are just above that? If the government means raising the first disc for everyone, we will support it, but helping the weak also means doing everything we can to get them to work. That is still the best protection against poverty. But where are these plans? In the meantime, the government is considering the compulsory introduction of quotas for achieving a variety of balances. I am strongly in favour of equal pay and equal promotion opportunities for everyone with equal abilities, whether male, female, white, black or purple, but I will oppose the introduction of quotas with all legal means. I don't want to saddle the nurse's team at the hospital with 50 percent men, I don't want 50 percent female dock workers, I don't want to replace half the dental assistants with male specimens or fire a mass of garbage collectors for the same reason. The government will soon decide not only when a company may open and work, but also who may work. If she also pays the invoices at the end of the month, then no one will mind, but I fear that. The announced discrimination tests are again an attack on the employer's freedom to include the best employee in his company. We also see it in the figures of the government itself. How is it that the government itself does not achieve the quotas, including for the employment of disabled people? Perhaps you could be a little more modest and set an example yourself. When origin, colour, religion, nationality or gender precede knowledge and competence, there is a problem. Then we come to the European Union and the salvation that these ministers also see in more EU, including European reinsurance on unemployment. This slope strengthens the EU's development into a transfer union, something that we, as Flemings, the largest net contributors to the Union, cannot possibly approve. This must remain the responsibility of the Member States. With regard to the European minimum wage in line with the country's economic situation, we fear a devaluation of our minimum wages, not to mention Belgium's pitiful attitude to tackling social dumping. The recent European directive is no more or no less than a confirmation of former Belgian legislation, with a small new restriction. So it remains legally organized destruction of one's own jobs. Moreover, this Directive excludes the adjustments for the transport sector. The European Posting of Workers Directive provides for legal social dumping. The most important consequence of the recent change is that posted workers should receive the salary of the host country, but pay social contributions in their home country. Often they are much lower there, if they are already paid effectively. As a result, workers from these countries are much cheaper than Flemish workers. The consequences are dramatic, thousands of Flemish jobs are lost. Not only in transport, construction, surveillance and the food sector, but also in the services sector. In the meantime, the government is losing tax revenue and our social security is being undermined. Employers who do not participate are priced out of the market or go bankrupt. Parties who believe that Europe is the solution to tackling social dumping and unfair competition are blind. Flemish employers and employees already dare to disagree, but there is consensus on this issue. After all, our companies have to fire their own employees and eventually go bankrupt because they are no longer competitive. Friend and enemy will recognise that there are only two ways to combat social dumping effectively: either question the open borders or allow foreign workers to pay social contributions here. We must not keep messing around in the European margin when we ourselves, in our own country, have the key in our hands. Flemish Interest calls for the existing Belgian Posting of Workers Act to be extended to include social contributions from day 1. The social and economic massacre in the construction and transport sectors must stop, especially if we are now to expect a mass of additional unemployed as a result of the corona crisis. Protect Flemish jobs, it will be more than necessary. Then we get to the other jobs that are threatened by the EU. The European Union continues to question our unique system of the Major Act. On the government side, there is silence in all languages on the protection of the status of port workers. The European rules on freedom of establishment and the free movement of workers constantly attack this Statute. According to the Flemish Interest, the current regime ensures that well-trained and recognised forces are chosen instead of stimulating social dumping. As a result, port work is smoother and safer. We will already exhaust all the means to protect the Major Act. Is that what the government's gonna do? When I look at the vote on our policy recommendations on this, I, and with me many thousands of dock workers, was very disappointed. All government parties, as well as the Communist PVDA, voted firmly against the protection of the port status. This sincere question literally determines the future of those other heroes of the corona crisis. Our dock workers are among the best in Europe. We will ensure that the protected status of our port workers is not destroyed for the benefit of cheap labour from abroad. Finally, I come to two of mine: the event sector and the healthcare sector. There is still no perspective for the event sector. These days, the experts and politicians are pushing themselves in front of the screen again and again to postpone any perspective. Our country is not only home to the best festivals and events, we also host the world players in that sector. Our thousands of freelancers and small self-employed people are throwing themselves into this sector with all their talent and passion. One of the problems in recent months has been the lack of structural consultation. I would like once again to call for the establishment of a joint committee for the event sector. For example, we can work more specifically on re-launch measures for this sector with 80,000 employees and self-employed people. Being married to a head nurse, the care sector is also close to my heart. The differences in working conditions in hospitals, federal matter and rest homes, regional matter, are already creating frictions. Are we finally going to improve working conditions and finance them? Are we considering further regionalisation, as recently defended by the Catholic care pillar? Many questions, but few answers to government banks. I'd like to end with a word of thanks. Thank you to the real heroes of our society, who stood in the front row and are in this crisis: the workers, who are now getting ready for the late shift, the nurses from there, but also the garbage collectors, the parcel services, the cashiers, the emergency services and the transport sector. This afternoon, I would like to thank you for a thank you and a thank you for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we look forward to finally being able to discuss the budgets relating to your respective competences. First of all, I must shed some light on the previous speaker. Indeed, we voted against his party's proposal for a law on the status of port workers, because we consider it insufficient in terms of what they expect and our understanding of their status. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you are aware of this, but our group of twelve parliamentarians has four workers and ex-unionists. Our group has the chance to concentrate more than 125 years of experience of violence in the current system of a simple worker, but also of arrogance of the employer when it is necessary to take place as a union delegate in order to defend the interests of the workers. Why am I telling you about it? If the decision has been made that people like us – without the intention of putting us forward, since we are millions – be represented here, it is because between the fantasies of some – without your particular aim – that you have heard since you sat here and the concrete reality, the gap can be enormous. Therefore, of course, we do not share the view of all those who consider that our country offers too much leave for workers and too much social benefits to the point of maintaining people in idleness. We do not agree with that view. The reality is that today the people are suffering! And he suffers in the same way in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. During the elections in May 2019, the population gave us a strong signal, calling for a break with the policies led by the Michel government – particularly on socio-economic issues. We pointed out a few points. What makes the workers of this country angry is that they are forced to work longer. They're right. I myself worked 25 years in hard discount including 21 years at Aldi. I have a thought for colleagues who are still in place and who still have to work there for at least ten years. I was 57 yesterday. And I would not see myself working for another ten years in difficult working conditions: heavy loads to carry, excessive flexibility with a salary that does not allow you to live with dignity. The majority of these workers are women on part-time contracts. Workers in this country are right to say that it is not logical to have them work longer because they suffer at work. And it is even more illogical when we know that other workers suffer from not having a job. We have a criticism of this problem. We believe that liberal logic is illogical. According to this logic, because we live longer, it would be normal to work longer. In fact, we have to think the other way around: if we live longer, it is because social struggles have made us work less. If we make the way backwards, the workers will die again earlier. In today's press, a study by Solidaris and the Belgian Observatory of Inequalities indicates that a third of the poor die before retirement. We don't live in the Bisounour world. We are not all equal in the face of death or disease. According to some studies, an entrepreneur, a banker, an executive lives on average ten years longer than a farmer, a surface technician, a temporary worker, a nurse, all these workers who work in a difficult job. Even a 20-year difference can be achieved by looking at healthy life expectancy. For us, at the age of 67, all jobs are difficult and when we reach the age of 60, we no longer have the strength to work as before. So we looked at your policy statements and compared them to the budget. What do we see? Unfortunately, we note that some parties in La Vivaldi promised, among other things, to return to this age of pension at 67. It was even a breaking point for some, that is, a non-negotiable point, a promise that gives confidence to the voters who voted for the party that put this point in its agenda. But that trust, you flouted it. You went to negotiate and the promise fell. However, it was well placed in the programmes. I'm taking the PS program, but I could also quote Ecolo's. You rightly said that 65-year-old retirement is "an inhumane, counterproductive social violence that does not take into account the health of workers and reinforces inequalities between men and women". About the same thing, we had the same statement in our program. It was also a point of convergence between our respective parties. What do we see today? None of this! We regret that the left-wing parties of Vivaldi have joined in this liberal vision identical to that of the previous government. Above all, as left-wing parties claiming to support social movements, you ignored this great social movement under the previous legislature and which had precisely attacked this pension at 67 years of age. There is also the whole problem of difficult jobs. Even the previous right-wing government had promised to take care of these difficult jobs. We wonder if it is not to put the carrot under the donkey's nose to make accept the age of 67 by saying in the background: "Don't worry! We'll talk after solutions for the hard jobs." I would therefore like to ask the minister responsible for these issues. Are you going today, in consultation with the social partners, to put you around the table and look for solutions to deal with the career ends of difficult jobs? I come to another point which brings together workers from the north, the south and the centre of the country: the question of the minimum pension at EUR 1,500 net. With this health crisis, we have seen, even more strikingly, who are the people who are running this country, the heroes that we all applauded at the beginning of the pandemic. All these workers deserve respect while working, but they need another policy; their right to rest and decent income must be granted. It's not a privilege, it's a human rights issue. That is why, with the PTB, we launched a petition for a minimum pension of 1,500 euros net. For some, this may seem banal. But I don't know many parties who went to meet the population and who were able to file a petition of 180,000 signatures to make it a citizens' law. It is not normal that in one of the richest countries in the world, one out of three pensioners living below the poverty line, and that the average pension does not even allow for the cost of taking care of them in a nursing home. A debate took place at the beginning: was this amount gross or net? Finally, it's not for now, it's for 2024. It is a question of "tendering to 1,500 euros", but we believe that we will not succeed, unless you prove the contrary, and that will be so much better. There will be an increase of about 11%. If we do the calculation, we will reach 1 434 euros, so we will not even reach 1 500 euros gross. This amount also includes increases related to well-being and indexation. This is not a real increase in purchasing power but just a rebalancing of the increase in the cost of living. On the other hand, you maintained that this pension would be complete with a career of 45 years. This government says it puts equality between men and women forward and has proved it with a positive element: we never have a government with so much parity. A secretary of state will even deal with this matter. We thought that next to that, the full pension with 45 years of career would no longer be offered. Nine in ten women do not reach a career of 45 years. I come to the problem of poverty. Social benefits are increasing towards the poverty line. The Swede had also promised that she would apply it and did not. We see a little change here, though. We see very well little progress and we do not want to deny it. But if we take the 2020 poverty line and say that we may reach the target in 2024, we must realize that by 2024, this amount of the poverty line will not be the amount of the poverty line today. That's a pretty rough point. And to "beautify the bride", we take into account automatic increases, such as adaptations to well-being and index that are not really real wage increases. Also in the fight against poverty, there is the catastrophic situation of our CPAS. During the pandemic, there was a 15% increase in funding for CPAS that we supported because it was in the right direction. However, this problem of non-financing of CPAS already existed before the crisis and is now getting worse. If we want CPAS to really play their part, we absolutely need to refinance them 100% through the federal government. Minister, what is your view on our proposal in this regard? We also regret the absence of individualization of rights. However, this seems to us to be very important in the context of equal rights between men and women. The "price of love" has been removed for some people with disabilities. But this "price of love" is the general rule for social recipients since rights are not individualized. The representative of ATD Quart Monde also noted this following your statement. He says: "We use the expression "price of love" already used by anti-poverty associations to denounce discrimination against social beneficiaries, but you suppress this "price of love" only for people with disabilities. Why should other recipients therefore continue to pay this price and remain second-rate citizens?" At the same time, automatically granting social integration income is one of your projects that we want to support. That is extremely important, Minister, and we absolutely want to support you on this point. As you yourself explained in committee, far too many people still do not assert their social rights. For example, only half of the people who, in theory, are entitled to income actually receive it. There's really something to do. But we do not see that this measure is reflected in the budget. So how will you implement this decision? Another question arises. How are you going to deal with what are called the poor workers? Between 2000 and 2019, the number of poor workers increased by 12% in Europe, and even 13% in Belgium. This is worse than the European average. I am thinking in particular of women working in the securities sector, who have to survive with poor wages. They went down the street to claim a minimum wage of 14 euros. Respect them! I am thinking of all these flexi-jobs, all these precarious contracts, all these atypical forms of work, which offer very little or no social protection, especially temporary workers who juggle from one contract to another, and all these workers in the collaborative economy. As far as the latter are concerned, we have great fears, because there is no guarantee from the government that they will be given a status and social protection. We will not fail to return to this point at the next committee meetings. We see nothing about the minimum wage, whereas during the last term of office, large companies made about 11 billion extra profits, while according to the International Labour Organization, our country saw its real wages cut by 2.3 per cent during the same period. It was therefore the shareholders and the leaders of the major groups who once again used to the detriment of the workers. This brings me to another question: what answer does the government give to the increase in these inequalities, also concerning workers? Minister, are you going to have a move and take an initiative for a minimum wage of 14 euros? I have said that this claim is also being made by the workers in the service securities sector and by the FGTB as a whole. Finally, to conclude on this aspect of employment, I would like to mention the new cuts in the ONEM project budget. We continue to hear that it is necessary to facilitate the return to employment. In addition, you plan to increase the employment rate by 80%. In our view, this is possible, but provided that the work is feasible and that it is no longer a job that looks like nothing. Second, the government plans to save 2% on its core employment budgets. Unless I'm wrong, in 2024, it would be 100 million euros. Even the Court of Auditors asked you how you were going to get such savings. We had already asked you this question, but the answer did not satisfy us. That's why we're resting it for you now. I'm getting to my last point. I want to talk about the issue of long-term patients. We are coming out of an era, which was that of Mrs De Block's policy of hunting sick people in order to return them to work – a goal that is known in a more sympathetic way as "reintegration to work". Of course, for many patients, this requirement is an integral part of the therapeutic process depending on the disease, and we do not want to deny it in absolute terms. However, a balance sheet should be drawn. But we see, and we are not the only ones, that this is not working. To do so, we rely on a study by KUL and ULB, which confirms this. In fact, in only 13% of trajectories, patients return to work with their former employer and, in 56% of cases, people are simply dismissed for medical reasons. We need to realize what that means. A medical dismissal does not mean that the company will then allow you to stay at home or encourage you while paying for it. No, you're back in the labour market. Now, the test is to start looking for a job again. Anyway, it's really dramatic. As the unions say, this mechanism is not a re-entry machine, but rather a lay-off machine. We therefore welcome the fact that you wanted to change your course somewhat by moving towards a much more preventive approach. We would like to support you in this respect, but we also hope that this will be done correctly. In reflecting in budgetary terms, we also think that the application of such a preventive approach requires funds. In this regard, it is not clear what amount you will be making available in the budget to implement this approach. How do you intend to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u26	Two more speakers have been registered. After that, the government will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u27	Madam Minister, at last we can look each other in the eye and engage in this important debate. My eyes are a little tired, but if you look deep, you will see that my eyes are still combative. Every downside has its advantage. It's 1:50 p.m. now. Imagine that we should have had this debate last night. Our target group, for which we all do, our pensioners, would not have been able to follow. Now they can follow this very important debate from their seat. Madam Minister, forgive me for addressing you alone, because of course you have two colleagues, but I will come back to that later. You will remember that I made a recommendation on behalf of our party in the context of the discussion of your policy statement. Unfortunately, it was voted down. I actually recommended that you ask the Committee on Ageing to draw up an interim report by January on the cost of ageing. We asked for this because, after social consultation, you would present a serious policy plan by September, a plan that would allow you to study the cost of ageing over the next 20 years. Why, then, do we ask that the ageing committee should submit that report by January, when it should not normally be done until June? In order to speed up the social dialogue, we had proposed that these figures should be transmitted in January, so that the consultations could begin in January. Without figures, the representatives of trade unions and employers can of course do little. I went to the trouble of sniffing up some numbers myself. Before I go into more detail on your policy paper, I would like to raise a number of points. It's a number of staggering points. You should know, Madam Secretary, that between 2018 and 2040 the number of pensioners will increase nominally by 743,000 people. On top of that, this is actually good news, but not for the budget that will also increase life expectancy, by an average of 5.5 years. For women it is 4.5 years, for men 6.5 years. That will be the case by 2060. Social expenditure, especially pensions, is going to increase considerably. Well, that's no secret to you either, but I did the math. The pension budget was rounded up to €50 billion in 2019. By 2020, this has reached 52.2 billion, and according to the budget, I will base myself on your figures, which will be 55.21 billion by 2021. This means an increase of 5.58 % in one year. If a future projection is made, which is quite simple, almost a three-year rule, we will need EUR 67 billion in 2025 to pay pensions. I admit, that amount is partly covered by pension contributions but not entirely. Given the rise in life expectancy and the increase in the number of pensioners, more than a third of that amount will not be covered by pension contributions. This will have to come from general expenditure. You know we work with the repartition system. The people who work today pay pension contributions on the basis of which they will receive a pension later, but that money is given immediately to the people who are now retired. That is our system and that works well when the ratio between the number of people who work and contribute is significantly higher than the number of retired people. There will, of course, be an important evolution in this respect. The proportion of people aged over 67 who are entitled to a pension compared to those aged between 18 and 66 is now about 26.3%. That percentage is going to rise to 38.6 % in 2040. I can go even further, to give a clear picture of what is in front of us: the number of people over 65 in 2040 versus the number of workers after studies will even be one in one. Fifty-fifty. So that's a huge challenge. I would like to draw your attention to another point. I base myself on a recent study by the RSVZ. This is about the ratio between the number of years of effective employment and the number of years of retirement. I hope that you will remember those figures when formulating your policy. I fell back when I read them. For the employees there is on average, among men, an effective employment of 30 years, but they build up a pension for 44 years. If you compare that with the self-employed: there is an average, even in men...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those are hallucinating numbers. It is therefore important not only to increase pensions. You're gonna have to do a lot more than that. You are therefore facing a very great challenge, Madam Minister, and I think you are aware of that. When I read the coalition agreement, I see that it is full of good intentions. It's still very vague. I had hoped that your policy paper would shed some light on that, but I am still hungry. I am not just talking about the people who are currently working on their pensions. You realize it's important. I suspect that for that reason, some work has been done on the casting of this government, because now we do not have one Minister of Pensions but three. We have three ministers of pensions. I know, you're the boss. That is what you said to me, and I made that point during the debates on the policy statement. You are actually a minister for the workers and for the IGO. Your colleague, David Clarinval, is Minister of Pensions for the self-employed and your colleague, Mrs Petra De Sutter, is Minister of Pensions for the civil servants. So those are three ministers. You are seeking to harmonise the three systems. That is what the coalition agreement says, and that is also a very noble goal. As a signal, of course, it can count on you engaging three ministers, from three different political families, in order to achieve this harmonisation. That's got to be something. I do not understand why there should be three ministers of pensions now. I don't understand. I also asked that question in the debates in committee, and you replied that you are the Minister for Pensions. You coordinate that and you will consult with your two colleagues. They do, however, have the powers I have just listed. You can deny that, but it is clear from all the information I have at my disposal. Your policy interests remain relatively vague. There is one exception. I realise, of course, that you cannot solve this whole pension problem overnight. Your colleague Vandenbroucke has spent a great deal of time in the past. That was nice and good work. He bit his teeth on it, too, partly. There is one exception, on which you are quite clear in your policy paper: you are going to increase the minimum pensions significantly. That's not a bad thing, I'm not against it. The N-VA has always been in favour of an increase in minimum pensions. We have done the same in the Michel administration. The IGO will also be increased. It also initially stated that there would be an increase in the wage ceiling and that the correction coefficient for the calculation of the self-employed's pension would be abolished. That's what I read in your policy paper. I assume that the Royal Decree on minimum pensions will be published in the near future. The increase in the IGO is reflected in the program law. That's what I'll be back for later. I read in particular that you will spend extra money on pensions, according to you, by EUR 1.2 or 1.3 billion by 2024. The Court of Auditors estimates this at EUR 3 billion. You can say that the Court of Auditors is mistaken, but I can only quote what the Court of Auditors claims. Of course, the Court of Auditors also takes into account future indexations and the wealth envelope. So you are going to spend an additional EUR 3 billion on minimum pensions. Then what is the opposite of the revenue side? They taught me: if you spend something, you have to make sure you have it first. In politics this is something else, one can do it in other ways, and I also find something of it in your policy paper and in the government agreement, in particular the increase in the level of activity. By 2030, it will have to reach 80% and this will help to continue paying those pensions, whose costs will increase significantly. Mr Anseeeuw has raised a number of questions and concerns about reaching that 80%. I can only repeat it, and I will continue to do so. In order to increase the level of effectiveness, cooperation with the regions will have to be ensured. We can provide a number of tools for the regions, but they will have to do so. Allow me, however, to take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Community. In Flanders, the rate of effectiveness is currently about 74 %. ZIj stood at 75 and even almost 76 % but due to the corona the percentage has dropped. Understandably, I have no problem with that. However, in Brussels and Wallonia, this rate of activity is 62 and 64 %. What have we established, and you can see for yourself. At the beginning of the Michel administration, the rate of activity in Flanders was 70 to 71 %. In a few years it has risen flagrantly to 75 to 76 %. What did we see in Brussels and Wallonia? There the efficacy rate remained around 62 and 64 %. This means that despite the efforts made by the government Michel in terms of employment and tools, this was not enough. The fact that tools are available is not enough and as a party we still have a number of tools to boost the effectiveness level. But of course these tools must be used by the regions to boost that degree. Bon chance for the government to reach that 80%. I think this will work in Flanders. But if one has to go from 62 to 64 % to 80 % and a minimal increase is not even possible in a period of high-cuncture, I say bonchance. You will have to talk seriously to your colleagues mainly in Wallonia and Brussels otherwise you will never get that 80%. Then you will also jeopardise the affordability of our pensions. So a lot of work to do, Madam Secretary. But you promised to do something about it. You'll study a round first. You'll study very hard. I like that because studying makes you smart. Of course, this doesn't bring in any money. A lot of study work on pensions has been done in recent decades. Vice Prime Minister Vandenbroucke will not contradict me. He has even made a very thorough study on this. We also have the Federal Planning Agency that produces an annual implementation report. The latest report dates back to July 2020. It's been a while. I suppose you've taken note of that. I wonder why you have to waste time going back to college. We don't have to reinvent the hot water. I have just given you a number of figures which are very clear. There should be a serious bell ringing anyway. So I'd shoot in action if I were you. I'd start looking for money. What you are doing is already spending money on minimum pensions. That's not the time. You put the cart in front of the horse. If you want the cart to move forward, it is better that you wood the horse in front of the cart, otherwise it will not go forward. Anyway, you'll study. It's okay. However, sufficient material is available. What else will you do? You're going into social consultation. The social partners must, of course, be involved in pension reforms. That seems obvious to me. You ask that they provide you with a detailed advice by September so that you can start implementing your policy on a thorough pension reform from September onwards. I'd say here too, bon chance. The social dialogue is good and that also works well in times when money is available. Then that goes smoothly. The money works like oil in that social consultation machine. You have a problem, in particular, that the money is not there. So you have to save money. I wish you bonchance with the social consultation by September. In September, you promised to go to the Council of Ministers with your two colleagues to put a full plan on the table. A plan to solve the full and significant problem of ageing costs. Bon chance. You're welcome to join us at any time. We are going to cooperate constructively and not stick in the wheels. But I'll give you some good advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u28	Mr Van der Donkt, at 2.15 p.m. we have to finish in order to make time for the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u29	I'll do my best. What can I say, Madam Secretary? You're not talking about some of the hard points in this pension reform. I do not find any mention of this in your policy statement or in the coalition agreement. I am referring to the harmonisation of pension systems. You have missed an opportunity, in particular the link between minimum pensions and the correction coefficient for the self-employed. That would have been a first step in this harmonization. But you decoupled it. I don't understand. You let that go. I don't read anything about the heavy-duty professions either. You've been accusing the press of that. You say you'll study that, and it'll make you smart. Other examples are the sickness pensions, the problems of the periods treated, the inactivity drop in the sickness pension and the survivor's pension, the end-of-life problem... I don't read anything about that. I suppose you'll tell me about that in September. I'll close here in view of the limited time. I wanted to discuss a number of issues, but I think that we will have a very close discussion over the next few months and years. I'm closing, Madam Secretary. You know, and if you don't know, I'll tell you again, the cost of ageing will be greatly increased by a number of expenditures that are not covered on the revenue side. That's very important. I remain hungry for structural reforms in the pension system. I am not distracting that from your note and from the coalition agreement a little bit. We're not even getting an indication of which direction you want to go. You are keeping us a little stupid by referring to the social dialogue and the month of September. It's okay. All we know is that reforms must ensure that ageing costs are resolved in a structural and sustainable way. I am particularly curious about the work that will come out of this social dialogue and perhaps I will talk completely differently. I hope so, not for you or for me, but for pensioners. You have used the word "confiance" a hundred times in explaining your policy statement. Should we have faith in that right now? Allow me to be sceptical about that, because what have you done so far? The three of you are playing a little Santa Claus. You're now spreading money that isn't actually there. You're the saint and your two colleagues are the black pricks. I will end by warning you with a quote from unsuspecting source. It is a quote from Professor Stijn Baert who knows and succeeds on this issue very well. On 30 September, he tweeted: 'The missed opportunity of the Vivaldi government', I prefer purple-green government, 'is that the increase in the minimum pension is not linked to a broader pension reform that also makes this increase affordable. Given our repartition system, this means: active people will be further squeezed out.' This is what I want to end up with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u30	Madam President, there is no longer time to intervene. I have a speech that takes more time than two minutes. I propose that the debate be continued after the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip079x.u31	You don't have enough time for your intervention. We shall stop here and move on to the oral questions. I suggest we take a two-minute break. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 17 December 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 17, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
