ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u1	I welcome the ministers De Block and De Backer. Today we only have three hours and not four hours as before. I had an exchange of views with the Bureau on this. We did not fully agree on it, but we found that at three o'clock it was impossible to do the same as before, when there were two rounds of replies from the ministers and two replies. I have therefore opted to abolish the second round. So we keep the times per group for the round of questions and the replies. There will no longer be a second round of replies for the ministers, nor will there be a second round of replies. According to my good calculations, we need 170 minutes to do that. I also asked the ministers to shorten their reply to 30 or 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u2	I would also like to point out that I asked a question last week about infections that have occurred before, for the official patient 1. I understood that you had the answer to that question with you, Madam Minister, and would deliver it in writing, but I have not yet received it. Can that be checked? I would also like to know exactly how we are preparing for a possible second peak. Most epidemiologists agree that there will be one. Are we now also building strategic stocks, in addition to the materials currently needed in hospitals and other places? What does this strategic stock consist of? We are also very concerned about the recovery of care personnel. The N-VA certainly supports this measure, but we would like to stress that it should only be possible in extreme circumstances. In this sense, I wonder whether non-nurse care workers have already been assigned to nursing duties. Finally, I wonder what we will be able to give back to the care providers who have been and are still standing on the front line, for example in hospitals. How can we express our appreciation? There's been a bounty, but I can't hear any more of that. What is the state of affairs now? Has she been completely disposed of or not? I also have some questions for Minister De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u3	Mr Minister, I wonder why the number of PCR tests since 4 May, when the test criteria were widened and the tracing started, did not increase significantly. Do you have any idea where the problem is? There are also signs coming from the field about tests that take a very long time, often more than a week. These can of course be exceptions that confirm the rule, but I would like to get an update on the reporting rate, given the importance of this for the contact tracing. With regard to the database, I have a number of additional questions, in particular regarding access by healthcare providers. It is not immediately clear which care provider can see what data. Can the GP see the data of his own patient in the database or is that the triage doctor or both? Can a doctor follow up the results? Can a doctor possibly also see results from other patients, not just from his own patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u4	Finally, I wonder whether serology will have an application in this database. After all, someone who is tracked down by contact tracing and would have a positive serology would probably not need to be quarantined and simply be able to continue working. In addition, Dr André also says that a PCR test could be useful in high-risk contacts, as these people could get back to work sooner, but apparently this is stopped by the RAG and the RMG. On 10 April 2020, I asked a written question on how exactly the RAG and RMG were compiled, but I still didn't get an answer to that. However, I would very much like to know how these councils have been compiled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u5	Madam Minister, you have just informed us that you are meeting our demand and your promise regarding compensation for the care sector in relation to home care. They will receive additional funds under COVID-19, as we have requested. Last week there were doubts about it, but you have now also clarified the retroactive effect from March 2020. Of course, it's not a big deal, but this is a very nice gesture and a heart-to-heart, as an appreciation for the care sector in these times. Life as a Member of Parliament is very frustrating at times. Sometimes I get the impression, like now, that you're not listening at all. But once the result is there, it is all the more beautiful, and as a Member of Parliament it is very nice to see that we get things done together. So I have your attention right away, because I also have one problem or ask for you about home care. There are also nomenclature numbers for steel names, but it specifies that these only apply to doctors. But what about home care? In the institutions, for example, self-employed nursing can come to take such a test, but is this billed to the general practitioner? Then how does it happen in the home care tests? What is the situation in the hospital sector with the key of the billion euro in advances and structural interventions for losses? What about our care staff there and the announced bonus for those staff? What's the status of the bonus? I hear there's been conversations, but they were supposed to go through the Maribel. I warned you about that. I already asked for enough locks to be provided so that the resources for the care sector also go to the care staff, for example through the BFM. That is why I would like to know your opinion on this. Last week I also asked about the face shields. Then you replied that you would ask the Security Council because you had not thought about it yourself. There is no problem with dust, manufacture or filters. One does not need to wash them, one can disinfect them immediately and reuse them. They are durable and offer full protection in the two directions, because one cannot touch one's own face. I'm curious about the advice. I also brought a copy here and I also carried it when I moved here on public transport. You can see it's working perfectly. One remains visible and one cannot touch one's own face. I'm curious about the advice. My last question is about what's in the media. I already referred to that. And also in the resolution on obesity that has to do with this. What is your opinion on the outcome of the health survey? What is your response and what is your approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u6	Mr President, I refer to my question about the quarantine measures and the role of local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u7	So the question is: what should and can the mayor do and how does the infflux run with the health inspector? On what basis should he or should he not enforce the quarantine measures? How is that maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u8	That leaves me one minute to complete. In particular, I asked questions about the vaccines we are all looking for and how Belgium will deal with them. Have you already had contacts with potential producers and have you identified priority target groups? How will you ensure that the flu vaccination, which is very important for the general reduction of epidemics, is done correctly in the autumn? Will you use the pharmacists as well as a vaccine against COVID? How will you deal with that? Has there been any consultation with the first line, with the general practitioners and with the pharmacists, who can play a very important role in this. That's what the Royal Academy of Medicine says, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u9	In my introduction, I forgot to remind you of a number of things. It is important to always refer to the numbers of questions you wish to see included in the Integrated Report. Last week I visited the department of the Integrated Report, which explained its working methods to me, and also the problems involved in this process. If you take the floor, all your questions will be considered to be asked. Only those of which you pass the number, or the description, will then be included, in italics, in the Integral Report. We have made a mistake in the past. In the formula of a topical debate it is not possible to postpone questions or turn them into written questions. The only options are to refer to your question, or to let them lapse. Then your question is without object. I just wanted to point that out. Mrs Gijbels, the secretariat informs me that Minister De Block forwarded the written reply this morning or at least today by e-mail. Of course, we have not looked at the content or whether it is complete, but you should have had it this morning. I can see you nodding, but I can tell you what the secretariat has told me. You'll have to figure it out afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u10	Mr President, can we not translate the questions into a written question? In the past, we were able to turn a question into a written question and then we immediately received the Minister's written reply at the meeting. Now, apparently, it needs to be arranged by e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u11	According to the Rules of Procedure, that is not possible. If they were individual questions, as in the past, they could, but in a topical debate they cannot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u12	Can we not then ask questions to the Minister who we do not want to see included in the topical and urgent debate? Suppose I consider a number of questions to be less linked to a topical debate and to be answered separately. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u13	If you have asked the questions in advance, the Minister will have the answer and will give it to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u14	If time is limited, I do not want to take more time from the Minister than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u15	You can refer to your questions. The point is that one must be present. A selection cannot be made between questions to be answered orally or in writing. They're all being treated all of a sudden. The Minister has one preparation for one topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u16	Last time, the Minister himself took the initiative to answer certain questions in writing. I didn't get my answer at the meeting last week. I got that in writing this morning. If the Minister can decide that, can't the Member of Parliament decide that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u17	If the Minister says that she is replying in writing, that is, formally-technically speaking, something other than the conversion of an oral question to a written question. The result may be the same, but technically it is not the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u18	Mr President, first of all, I should like to point out that Mrs Marie-Colline Leroy is asking that her oral question No 55005713C be turned into a written question, the latter being retained in another committee. This is likely to be the case systematically. Mrs De Block, with regard to your release to the press concerning job seekers undergoing nursing training, your statement is not incongruous. It is obvious that the caretaker sector needs additional arms, staff. As we know, he's been in short supply for a very long time. Above all, it needs a comprehensive approach. On the one hand, we have this rather abrupt exit, which is not well perceived by the staff, because it does not understand the plan you have behind this training. I imagine it's a complete nurse training course, spanning three or four years. But also, why, suddenly, with these unemployed people, who would have lost their jobs because of the VOCID crisis, would there be an overall plan solely for this training? I hope that this is not an opportunistic outplacement plan for this training, which requires real vocations and, above all, global support, because these people should not stop their training after some time, because the working conditions are complex, because the pressure is too strong, because they are being asked for too much flexibility, because valorisation is still not there. We're going back to that global demand. What is your plan behind all this? There is the White Blouse Fund, on which we continue to work and which provides a little more complete answers. I would have liked more information about your plan, hoping that the full vision and recognition that staff need will be included in this statement. Mr De Backer, you announced last week, following the question I asked you, that the criteria for using serological tests would arrive last Friday, that is, on 15 May. Visiting the Sciensano website tells us that they are still not available. We are at J+15 of the deconfination and we find that not only the PCR tests take 4.5, even 7 days to be provided, but also that serological tests are still not used. However, they have been ordered in large quantities and staff do not have any indication of the use of these tests. Medical and nursing staff also insist that they be tested more systematically, as they continue to ask themselves whether they are asymptomatic or not, nor do they want to re-contaminate the staff, as happened at the beginning of the crisis. Minister, do you have clear procedures with respect to this request? When can health care personnel as a whole be tested more systematically? Mr President, Mrs Creemers is suffering. I have to apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u19	Thank you. I hope she gets better soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u20	Mr. Chair, Minister, midwives are warning me that they have not been given the opportunity to resume consultations before August 31, 2020, unlike other health professions. Is this information true? What are the reasons for this? It is essential for women to be able to resume antenatal consultations as soon as possible with pregnant women at the present and not only via video-conferencing, given the importance of this moment in women's lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u21	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that Mrs Tillieux will join us in the next few minutes, because she is busy in another committee. She will therefore ask her questions after the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u22	Minister, Minister, according to the general medical associations and organizations of the country, more than half of the screening centres set up to track potential carriers of VOCID-19 have so far received no funding from INAMI. In addition, none of the centres received the promised start-up funding, while costs continue to increase due to the expansion of sorting centres into testing centres. INAMI had promised to provide funding for start-up and medical consultations and a fee for medical coordination. But for now, they haven't seen anything coming. Minister, why have these sorting centres not yet received the promised funding, while their costs are only increasing? When will this funding be allocated? On the subject of tracing, several general practitioners informed me yesterday that they all obviously had access to the results of all citizens tested on the federal platform. This, of course, has posed some difficulties. Minister, Minister, can you confirm that the problem is currently being resolved? I also wanted to go back to wearing the mask. Incongru, a few weeks ago, it is now recommended. Some traders impose it on their businesses. The mask is mandatory for marketers but not for customers. So there is a kind of artistic blur around the wearing of the mask. This is a problem, because some mayors are making decrees and today the government is calling them to order for taking additional, additional or further measures than those recommended by the CNS. However, the measures taken by these mayors, who sometimes take stricter orders, imposing the wearing of the mask in all the shops of their commune or their city, are quite well received by the population. Minister, why don't you make the mask mandatory for the entire population in public places, as many scientists recommend? Why impose the wearing of the mask on market gardeners and not impose it on customers wandering through the market alleys? In the coming days, do you intend to make the recommendations and rules for wearing the mask more understandable to citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u23	Madam Minister, Minister, last week we were talking about the sale of masks in supermarkets, but I have further questions. Since when does Comeos have supplies of mouth masks? Have you been able to view the purchase invoices so that you could check that the mouth masks are indeed sold at purchase price? Rumor has it that it is about the mouth masks that were rejected for the healthcare sector. Is that right? Does the purchase price indeed have 1 euro? I suppose the mouth masks will be cheaper. Were the mouth masks tested for their efficiency and safety? Has sufficient stock already been built up to provide the care sector with mouth masks in the event of a second wave? My next series of questions is actually related to that. Many SMEs suddenly ran out of activities and revenues because of the lockdown. Some creatives adapted their sales strategy and threw themselves on the market of mouth masks, allowing their staff to continue to work and thus preventing them from resorting to state aid measures, a good thing for the state treasury. Now it appears that these companies are getting into trouble, because their loads of mouth masks at airports are often blocked for weeks. The problems arise because these companies have invested their capital in those mouth masks. Is it true that all charges of medical protective equipment are held for control at airports? Is it true that the control often drags weeks? What's taking so long? Is there any possibility of limiting the time needed for control, so that loads are released more quickly? I would like to stress that control is very important, but perhaps some work can be done on it, so that its duration is reduced. Is it true that masks that do not meet the safety standard of 95 %, but only protect 93 %, will not be released? Can a sleeve be fitted so that masks, which, for example, are safe enough to protect ordinary citizens, can still be placed on the market, of course, as mouth masks for citizens and not suitable for the care sector? Is it true that tens of millions of mouth masks are now blocked at the airports? Throughout the file, entrepreneurs speak of real harassment because of the controlling service. Do you know or are you planning to investigate that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u24	Mr President, for my questions. 55006226C and 55006227C to Mrs De Block I refer to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u25	Madam Minister, Minister, in a statement of 4 May 2020, the WHO stated that it was open to the potential efficacy of medicinal plants used in traditional medicine. However, the WHO stresses the need to provide scientific evidence for this. According to the statements, medicinal plants such as Artemisia annua may be used to treat COVID-19. However, more studies are needed to assess efficacy and assess adverse reactions. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on the use of medicinal plants in addition to the treatment of COVID-19? What does science say about that? It might be a strange question. Of course, rigorous clinical studies will have to be undertaken first. At the moment, however, we are making every effort to combat COOVID-19. In doing so, we must not miss a chance. What does science specifically say about Artemisia annua? If I consider it appropriate to consider all possible avenues of treatment in a very rigorous and supervised manner, the corollaries are the risk of misinformation on the one hand and self-medication on the other. From the moment a disease comes to the heart of all parts of our lives, of our daily lives, the way in which we can treat this disease inevitably inundates channels of information, including social media. Caution must therefore be exercised so as not to misinformation about the effectiveness of certain remedies. Minister, are communications in place to combat misinformation about treatment? How to prevent the use of self-medication that would increase the risk to patient safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u26	Madam President, Minister, the progressive de-confinition is obviously carefully scrutinized by experts in order to avoid a second wave of the pandemic. As a result of this process, which began on 4 May, the first results appear and observations are made. It appears that the rate of reproduction of the virus has increased in recent days in our country. Can you clarify this data and share with us the interpretation of the experts? The number of hospitalizations seems to be stagnating as we enter only the phase in which we can see the potential impact of progressive deconfination, given the 14 days required. Could you clarify the analysis made by the experts at this stage? How many tests are currently being conducted every day? Why, last week, were laboratories still waiting for authorization to perform serological tests? What protocol is communicated for the implementation of the latter and which laboratories are concerned? Several weeks ago, I asked you about clinical trials to find treatments for VOCID-19. In particular, I asked you whether specific procedures should be or have been implemented to facilitate and accelerate these clinical studies in our country or, at the very least, for our scientists to participate in international studies. Can you tell me what measures are being taken to support and facilitate these trials? Last week, two foreign studies (a French study and a Chinese study) reportedly concluded that hydroxychloroquine was not effective. What information have you received on this subject and which have been passed on to our medical staff? Do these findings alter treatment or some of the studies underway in our country? Can we take stock of the current situation with regard to the supply of masks to professionals and schools? I am thinking here of surgical masks and FFP2 for front-line outpatient care professionals such as doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, and masks for schools that have just reopened. Regarding childhood disease, you indicated last week that the link with VOCID-19 was not yet certain. It seems that this is changing, and that the link would be confirmed today. Could you clarify the state of analysis and the specific measures that have been taken at this level? In the context of a risk of a second wave of the pandemic in our country, a reconfinition is being studied by the experts. Could you clarify the lines of this potential planning? Finally, the European Commission has proposed to the Member States an assessment of the danger of coronavirus more than calling for, as part of the protective measures to be defined for workers. This is based on the scale of gravity defined at European level, comprising four groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u27	Mrs Taquin, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u28	Indeed, the Commission would classify SARS-CoV-2 as a biological agent in Group 3, i.e. a virus against which "effective treatment exists" and which "has no high risk of spread". On this question, what does this mean for European workers? What is our position on this European assessment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u29	Mr President, I must apologize to my colleagues Farih and Van Hoof. They shall take part in another committee meeting. I myself have three topical questions. Firstly, I hear from nurses on the premises that in certain hospitals the surgical masks and the FFP2 masks are still being rationed. For example, they have one surgical mask for 8 hours. They can alternate the use with an FFP2 mask, but with that they have to do the next 8 hours. Are there any medical guidelines that determine how long one can use a mask? Is there a maximum duration of use? Do the hospitals themselves have the freedom to determine them in their own regulations? I ask that question because she's asked me from the field. The monitoring of the correct use is a concern for me. We must avoid trying to save on that. Secondly, I am getting signals from doctors and medical staff that they are concerned about the relaxation that we are implementing. Of course there are supporters and opponents of any speed for the different steps, but the testing is very important. A number of virologists today call for a relaxation or broadening and an increase in the number of tests. According to them, that capacity is present. They therefore ask for it to be used to avoid a second outcry. Do you consider or the RMG to ease the criteria, test more people and use the available test capacity? Thirdly, as regards the federal platform of contact trackers, as a federal government, we are responsible for the database. During the first week in which it was used, bugs were found. Does it get better after the second week? Is it expected to happen or is monitoring still needed? Are we already working as it should, at full capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u30	Mrs. H annoyance, you mentioned Mrs. Marie-Colline Leroy. However, as I indicated, when a member does not ask his or her question, it is considered to be irrelevant. Of course, we can ask the minister to send her her answer out of courtesy. Anyway, Mrs. Leroy knows perfectly well, since she came to the hall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u31	Mr President, Mr Colebunders has asked that his question No 55006180C be postponed, but I realize that this is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u32	No, unfortunately that is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u33	"Our country is in the center of activity around a possible corona vaccine. On April 14th, it sounds in a press release that the French company Sanofi and GSK, with its head office for vaccines in Belgium, join forces in the race for a vaccine. They hope to start clinical trials in the second semester of 2020, in order to be able to commercialise a vaccine a year later. Last week it became known that Sanofi is forcing European governments to release additional public funds for the development of a vaccine, because otherwise the vaccine would go first to the US, says the pharmaceutical company. Isn't that just blackmail? At the same time, the farmareus is on the infusion of government subsidies and tax advantages in France, under the so-called Crédit Impôt Recherche. Sanofi has been receiving 150 million euros annually for more than 10 years. During the same period, the multinational removed more than 2,800 research posts. Recently, Sanofi announced that it would pay 4 billion euros of dividends to its shareholders. It can't be any crazier than this, can it? Has Sanofi also addressed our government with the demand for more resources? Have you been in contact with Sanofi and GSK about these statements? What agreements were made with GSK and Sanofi on vaccine development in our country? Do they, and by extension, receive any (multinational) pharmaceutical companies involved in our country, Belgian government subsidies? If so, which one? Are there conditions attached to these subsidies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u34	Europe collected EUR 7.5 billion, of which EUR 27 million from Belgium. That money should not be used to boost the profits of multinational pharmaceutical companies. Patents have no place in a pandemic. Investing public money in the development of a vaccine should lead to a public good, do you agree and will you act accordingly?" "May 18th, the Morning: "The Block wants to retrain jobseekers free of charge to be nurses." People who lost their jobs during the corona crisis can be converted free of charge into nurses and during training they would receive compensation. The proposal should extend the Formation 600 project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u35	What is the state of play of the draft law? You stated that you will send a letter to the social partners to further develop the idea. Is consultation with the social partners also planned?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u36	"At the beginning of this month, two Royal Decrees were published, which were able to count on an agreement from the other parties in the Superkern. The care staff of the Saint Peters Hospital in Brussels carried out a protest campaign following the visit of the Prime Minister. Symbolic, because politics turns its back on us when we ask for help," that's what it sounds like. Philippe Leroy, director of the Sint-Pieters Hospital, said that the two KBs weren't necessary: raising people, and even sending the police to their homes if they don't want to come: those aren't rules that had to be put on paper. Our staff just showed themselves to be extremely employable." Professor Geert Meyfroidt, chairman of the Belgian Intensive Medicine Association, also joins Leroy. The demand on the ground and in the unions is strong to withdraw the two KBs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u37	However, care workers do require better working and wage conditions. A true recognition of their profession. What measures will you now take to meet these aspirations on the ground? Will you consult with the field and the trade unions?" "Mr. Minister, André Emmanuel said last weekend that the PCR test capacity of the national platform is 5-10 times higher than the actual number of tests carried out and that more than a week ago an extension of the test guidelines was requested from the competent authorities. This still hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u38	Why are general practitioners still not allowed to carry out serological tests?" Question 55006230C contains several requests for statistical information. As a matter of courtesy, the Minister can send them to me in writing. I'd like that. Now I'm going to detail my questions for the time I have left. Madam Minister, if an image has marked us this weekend, it is indeed the image of the nursing staff of St. Pierre's Hospital turning their backs on the Prime Minister when she arrived on the site. This image tells us how our government has failed to meet the expectations of caregivers, who have responded in an exemplary manner to the first wave. There was also an article in Het Laatste Nieuws yesterday entitled: "Policy is constantly turning its back on us. Now it was our turn. There is a total lack of respect for our profession." That testified to a nurse. The first wave went well in hospitals and staff responded present. There were also many volunteers, not all of whom were called. Our government has issued two royal orders, one to requisition staff, the other to allow any health professional to practice nursing. These two royal decrees have made the vase overflow and the medical staff protest today. This silent protest, which has echoed throughout the world, expresses the anger felt by the health care staff. Minister, are you going to withdraw these royal orders? Will you listen to the people in the field? Are you going to go to the concertation? We have to prepare for the second wave and on the ground, they have ideas for doing so. Are you going to opt for consultation or are you going to continue the war with these royal orders? My second question concerns the company Sanofi, a pharmaceutical giant in France, which carries out research for a vaccine. The company announced this weekend that Europeans will not have first access to the vaccine – but the United States – unless European subsidies increase. What do you think? We know that Sanofi joined GSK, a company active in our country, to develop this vaccine. Are there any agreements between GSK and Sanofi for the development of this vaccine? Are these companies already receiving state aid? If so, are these aids conditioned? More generally, do these Belgian companies agree to enter the patent pool on a voluntary basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u39	Mr President, Minister, Minister, for a few weeks in a row, measures have been made more flexible, leading to an increased risk of contagion. Sciensano's data indicates that the R-value would now be 0.8, which means that 10 infected individuals infected 8 new people with the virus. Two weeks ago, the R-value was at 0.5. So we see the figure evolve in the wrong direction. Can the Minister explain the current R value and its evolution? What are the possible causes of this? Can that be reversed again? The risk of infection leads to a lot of anxiety among high-risk patients and their environment. For high-risk patients, for example, there is today the possibility of the quarantine certificate, which allows them to stay at home from work and thus benefit from unemployment benefit. Of course, they are concerned about the risk that their partner who is going back to work or their children who are going back to school could mean to themselves. How do you estimate the risk for high-risk patients due to these relaxations? What measures can be taken to minimise the risk? I also had a question about the contact centres that have become active. They question infected persons about the persons they have been in contact with. The work these people do may give us an insight into the environment in which the virus spreads. Can we also get a look at the way people got infected through the contact centres and the contact trackers? Have they been infected in their home environment? At work? Shopping? Is there also a possibility of reporting on this, of course on an anonymous basis? Finally, I would also like to talk about the development of a vaccine. This development is subject to clinical trials. Because we are dealing here with a global pandemic, with a high infection of the virus and the lack of adequate treatment, it is important that a vaccine can be developed and placed on the market very quickly. In principle, the development of a vaccine usually lasts ten to fifteen years. The development can happen more quickly if you continue working on an existing vaccine or if you skip animal testing. This suggestion is also made in the development of a vaccine against COVID-19. In our country, the FAGG must give its approval. As a minister, what is your position on such an accelerated procedure? Has this already been discussed within the FAGG and what attitude would be adopted if asked to skip some of the animal testing? What conditions would there be to skip some of the animal experiments in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u40	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I have two brief questions. Firstly, the Flemish Patients' Platform specifically asks for reimbursement of the surgical masks and FFP2 masks purchased from the pharmacy on the basis of the status of chronically ill patients for patients at risk with the status of chronically ill patients. Despite the fact that this purchase doesn't really cost a lot, it's happening very quickly for chronic patients. Madam Secretary, what would your answer be to that question? Secondly, Minister, we see today in a number of newspapers calls for more testing, not only in the case of indications of COOVID-19 contamination, but also in the case of high-risk contacts, for example. Mrs Gijbels has already referred to it. Mr Minister, if what you are saying is true, namely that you can scale up to twice as many tests as you are doing today, then that testing should not in itself be a problem at all. When will this happen or why hasn't this happened yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u41	Mr President, I have received a question from Minister De Block. It basically means that we want to know the Belgian attitude following the debate on the broadening of the role of the WTO, in particular on the motion for a resolution. I would have liked to know very clearly, if possible, the Belgian Government's position on the motion for a resolution. What are the chances of success of that resolution? What, according to Belgium, should be included? Does Belgium agree that the role of the WTO can become much clearer, so that concrete action can be taken much more quickly in the event of crises? Does Belgium support the idea of patent pooling, as it does for a flu vaccine? I also have a question for Minister De Backer. Mr Minister, quite a few consultants have been taken up for the organisation of the markets and the means of testing, mouth masks and so on. Minister, what commitments have been made and how many contracts have been concluded so far? What is the total value of it, regardless of who they are paid by? How many external consultants have already been taken into account for these different issues? How much did that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u42	Mr President, I would first like to refer to my question No 55006216C to Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u43	I come to my question about testing. Minister, Minister, the testing, tracing and isolation strategy is central to avoiding a rebound. Today, however, there is a decrease in the number of daily PCR tests, which is again much lower. I also note that some hospitals are not able to offer it to all their caregivers. Mr. De Backer, you promised freedom from the prescriber. This is still not the case today. At the slightest doubt, at the slightest suspicious sign of VOCID-19, the strategy is still not to do an automatic PCR test. Is there any difficulty with swabs that appear to be missing in some places? Finally, what is the actual exact duration of the result? Still in this part, we are waiting, while I have been asking you for several weeks. Every time, you promise them to me. I am talking about serology indications and guidelines that are still not determined. However, this is complementary and important to combine with the PCR. This limits laboratory intervention but also reimbursement for patients. Meanwhile, some companies offer it to their staff. The overall strategy is largely missing. Will you yes we will not activate the directives and therefore the refunds? In terms of tracing, the last 15 days, the least we can say is that there have been a series of problems. What are the exact guidelines today? I realize that we actually only track back two days when call centers call carrier patients. This is obviously not enough. The number of people contacted is largely insufficient compared to the scientific projections that should be made. Can you provide an update on the exact situation? Madame De Block, I'm coming to you. I realize that I will not have the opportunity to ask my question. I will reply on hospital funding and refer to the written version of my question. This is a very important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u44	I will end with the nursing problem. Of course, why not? The desire of unemployed people to take training as nurses could be created. That said, that's not how we're going to settle the shortage by tomorrow, as there's 5,000 missing. It is necessary to work both on the whole career, on working conditions and also on training. What's your status with the caregiver bonus, which has been promised and re-promised? I would like to make a final point on the financing of sorting centres. I won't be longer, for lack of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u45	Mr President, as Mrs Tillieux has not returned and so that her questions can be taken into account, I refer to all the questions she has been able to put to the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u46	Mr Prévot, technically, you cannot do it in his place. I guess she'll be here later. Even if she has not asked her questions, she may be able to speak after the ministers' presentation. In any case, the Ministers received the questions electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u47	And I assume that the ministers prepared the answers to the questions that had been tabled anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u48	Mr President, it seems to me that she also asked a question about Sanofi. I assume that this is more or less the same object as my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u49	I now give the floor to the two ministers who have more or less 30 minutes each.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u50	Mr. President, Philippe De Backer is about to begin. Mr President, if I may say so, I have also been chairman of the committee for a long time. The Rules of Procedure are really not being respected. I understand that the services are overloaded with work, because it goes in every direction!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u51	Mrs De Block, could you clarify what you're saying? In what sense? Since you have more experience than I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u52	Allow a colleague to refer to all questions, allowing him to refer to a written question in the absence of the author. This is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure! I see that we must not even be physically present in committee. The organisation of the meetings by Zoom has already been very relaxed. I understand why the staff, in the services, is exhausted!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u53	I get it, Mrs. De Block. That's why I repeated the rules, at some point, because the members always try... After the N-VA spoke, I indicated that it was necessary to be present in the meeting to ask his questions. I said the previous time too: you can't ask someone else's question, or send it back. The only option in a topical debate is to ask your questions. If we're not there, they're useless. When these are "normal" questions, they can be transformed into written questions, but not in the context of a topical debate. Everyone may try sometimes, but that is the procedure that we are following now and that I have just recalled. One can refer to his questions to include them in the full report by mentioning them specifically and with the reference to the number, since, as there are many questions, indeed, for the services, if they say in general "I refer to my questions", the services also sometimes do not know what questions are involved. I hope it's clear to everyone now, and we'll tell the absent. I repeated the procedure. You will have understood, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, that if you have prepared answers to questions that may not have been asked today, by courtesy, you can always send them. But we are, in fact, outside the Rules of Procedure. But that would be nice anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u54	Mr President, I will try to answer most of the questions in half an hour. I will not be able to answer everything within that time, but I am, of course, prepared to answer the remaining questions in writing if they are submitted in this way. First of all, I would like to make a few points about the testing strategy. Firstly, the test criteria are set by the RAG, an advisory body with scientists, and then by the RMG and Sciensano to be transformed into clear criteria. As far as the extension of the test criteria is concerned, you will remember that I argued in favour of this on 7 April. However, we must follow the right procedure. It is currently up to the Interfederal Committee, coordinated by Emmanuel André, to evaluate whether the testing strategy should be adjusted. This should then be requested by the RAG and the RMG to adapt the test criteria effectively. The testing & tracing system currently means that the general practitioner contacted by a patient with mild symptoms has the freedom to decide whether or not to take a test. That was an explicit question from a lot of people in this room and, by the way, from the doctors themselves. That's how we did it. That circuit is linked to the clinical labs that doctors use in normal times. In addition, of course, the contact tracing starts. When the results come in, the people who have been in close contact with that index case will also be tracked down. Those persons, including asymptomatic ones, will then undergo a test depending on the type of profile they have. These profiles are also included in the scripts drawn up in consultation with the regions. As a result, a quarantine is issued for people from the moment the doctor identifies the symptoms until the test result is in. Also for the people who have been in contact with that person, there is a quarantine. Purely epidemiologically, we try to prevent the spread of the virus as quickly as possible. We're gonna succeed in that, too. In the running test platform, the number of tests is, of course, highly dependent on the number of patients offered. I have always said that the daily number of tests will evolve according to the number of patients present. Right now, we do about 15,000 tests a day, sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less. This will enable us to identify 230, 250 or 300 patients. So we're already testing very large, with 15,000 tests to identify 300 patients. Can these test criteria still be adjusted? That's possible. I'm open to that. It is now up to Emmanuel André, the RAG and the RMG to define the strategy very clearly for the coming weeks. The federal government must also play its part in the whole tracing story, although the competence lies very clearly with the regions. We have started both the technical support, which is going well at the moment, and the Sciensano database. It is not so much a question of malfunctioning; it is mainly a question of what information the regions extract from that database in order to do contact tracing. If, after the process has been completed, it appears that there is a need to adjust or that other queries should be used for the database, this will be discussed in the Inter-Federal Committee. At the moment we mainly use PCR testing. At the federal level, my task force has been able to ensure a lot of serological tests, tests that are already being used today to do epidemiological studies and to do a cross section of the population. This is already happening today with various studies, including by Professor Van Damme at the University of Antwerp and at Sciensano. The aim is to broaden the use of serology, primarily for staff in the care sector. That royal decree has now been negotiated and will be published. The Royal Implementing Decision is in preparation and will be published shortly after the necessary advice from, among others, the Clinical Biology Committee. Consideration should also be given to the evolution of serological tests, or they can be given a role in diagnostics. There is a lot of discussion and debate about this. If you hear different experts about this, you will find that they are not all on the same page. We constantly try to consult with those experts and the clinical labs to see how we can use the serological tests in the best strategic way. We must continue to make good use of the test capacity. My plea is to ensure that the existing test capacity can be used as evenly as possible. As I said, of course, it depends on the number of patients who present themselves with how we use the test capacity and when and how many tests can be taken. At the moment, the discussion with the first line has resulted in some adjustment. The regions have the lead to make the contacts. A number of triage centres are not yet connected to the eHealth system, and this needs to be done as soon as possible. Also a number of general practitioners are not digitized, which sometimes causes delays in obtaining the results. We are sometimes asked to process paper doctor's notes and faxes. A huge effort is needed to enable digitisation to take place. We have done this, for example, by making a web form available to general practitioners, which allows them to follow their patients digitally. The lead time of testing is very important. We see that 24 hours or 36 hours between the test and the result is achieved at most labs. That is a good thing. That's what's needed. In some cases this lead time is indeed longer. This sometimes has to do with the fact that the steel was not injected. This is sometimes due to the fact that samples are not properly analysed. This sometimes has to do with the fact that no push message was sent to the general practitioners to get access to the result. We have tried to deal with all these initial issues, but it requires a permanent effort, both from the regions and from us, to ensure that monitoring is carried out properly and correct any problems. Together with the regions and the Interfederal Committee, which is under the coordination of Emmanuel André, we have also developed a whole system to monitor on the federal platform how long it takes before a test taken to find the way back to the general practitioner. Last week there was a discussion about who can see the result. After all, the GMD holder is not always the same as the doctor in the triage post who performed or prescribed the test. This problem was discussed with the general practitioners and has now been resolved. Starting tomorrow, the GMD holder and the person who prescribed the test will see the result of the test and no one else. This makes it easier for the doctors involved to inform their patients and start contact tracing at the same time. There has been a long discussion with the GPs about how general practitioners could be involved in the testing. I pointed that out last week. They have insisted on communicating with the general practitioners themselves on the way in which the material and system of testing would be distributed. We have also ensured that sufficient material is available. We have distributed about 4 million masks and about 30,000 hand gels and also other materials for triage centers and testing, which can at the same time serve to provide additional support to the general practitioners. The general practitioners use the classic circuit of clinical labs for the wipers. It is indeed customary for the clinical labs to deliver and retrieve the wipers themselves, so that sufficient test material is available in general practitioners. A general practitioner can always refer to a triage post, where the steel is then taken. The clinical labs have also indicated that they can perform those 10,000 tests a day. That is what they have been consulted on. They have said that they are able to do so. We do have a system of emergency deliveries, for example for hospitals. If there are problems with wipers, we can make an emergency delivery. We have already done so in a number of cases. I have therefore answered the most important points relating to testing. Now I come to the questions about protective materials. In recent weeks we have received a lot of orders. We ensure that we keep 10% to 20% of this each time, so that we build up a stock for, for example, emergency deliveries. Of course it was the intention to bring everything that came in as soon as possible on the premises. At the moment we are working on an exercise to build up the strategic stock to ensure that sufficient protective material is available when there is a second wave. We're working on three tracks for that. Firstly, a decentralised stock, so that there is sufficient stock in hospitals and healthcare institutions to have a first buffer, should there be a second wave. Secondly, we are working on a decentralised basis with the regions, so that there is a line of defence there too. Finally, we are building up the federal stock to ensure that deliveries can also take place. In order to build up the stock, orders continue abroad, as the federal government has always continued to order. I have noticed that orders by the regional authorities have now stopped and that the regions have stopped delivering at the beginning of June. The federal government never did. We've always been ordering. In the coming weeks, as in the past two to three weeks, we will continue to make deliveries. We continue to distribute among the hospitals and the people in primary care. That also means that we could put a lot of materials on the market. I can now give you the figures you asked for. We have ordered more than 300 million surgical masks, of which 40 million have been distributed since 16 March. We have ordered 173 million gloves, of which about 15 million have been delivered and also some 15 million have been distributed, so they go directly into the market to the hospitals and the people in the first line. Twice a week we update these figures and I can give them to you. With the Public Health Office we have agreed to communicate more clearly what deliveries we will make in what week. On the website you can see which groups of care will be delivered with different materials in the next days and weeks. Because of the large volume of deliveries, this communication is not always correct up to the day, but in this way people can be sure when a particular delivery will arrive. The same applies to the private ambulances. A whole pack of masks has already been distributed among the ambulance services, about 900,000 surgical masks, and there's another one and a half million to be distributed. Furthermore, there are 400,000 gloves and a thousand bottles of hand alcohol gel. In this way, we respond to the demand on the ground. Furthermore, we are planning consultations to see how sufficient buffers can effectively be built into the system at different levels, to ensure that we are adequately equipped in a second wave. The federal government's orders, of course, run in the millions. In addition, there is a very clear process that I explained here two weeks ago, how we carry out quality control. That quality control shall not be applied to other deliveries. One can ask for their own material to be tested by Belgian labs, and that is what is happening. Most tests at IDEWE, HeX and others concern orders made by hospitals or other healthcare institutions, who want to check their equipment again. It turns out that the market is very difficult, because only 15% of the masks ordered by all those institutions actually reach the standard. That is why the federal government continues to test all its orders and to monitor quality control. That is a great deal of work for the services that are doing excellent work on the ground. Both customs, the FPS Economy and the FAGG are doing so in a very correct way. They not only ensure that federal deliveries are subject to quality control, but also that the goods ordered and arriving for other institutions such as economic operators or care actors are processed quickly. Of course they still carry out checks on different lots and that may take some time, but my experience so far is that the services act very correctly and that the louder one calls, the more wrong one is. The louder it is called that something takes too long, that something has to be released, that there is no problem, the more there is a problem with certificates, quality, origin or whatever. The services are doing their job in a very correct way. Of course one must always find a balance between the speed of passing things and the quality controls that one must continue to carry out. I do not know who asked the question, but the quality and safety of the people must always be given priority. There was a specific question from Mr Crombez. In support I was asked to take on the task forces Testing, Data and Shortages. We noticed that this was a very specific market situation and that it was difficult to navigate the international markets with our services, although they had done very good work in advance. So it has been effectively said that there should be support from consulting. We then asked Deloitte to support us. For the task force data, an agreement has been reached with Dalberg. A lot of expertise has also been brought together to streamline the purchasing process on the international market. For Deloitte, EUR 600,000 has been paid so far. For the consultants related to the data, this amount amounts to around 100,000 euros. For the purchasing team, the sum currently amounts to 300,000 euros. Those teams have been operating in a pronounced crisis mode for the past few months, 24 hours a day, 7 days a day. When we talked about the exit strategy, we made it clear that we want to return to normality as soon as possible. That's what we're doing right now. The teams will be phased out. They have made an invaluable contribution. For example, the data team has made sure that we have been able to refine the modelling and has also been able to set the mobility data on track. It has also helped underpin decisions, such as the cliquet system at the different stages of the exit strategy. The purchasing team was able to make large purchases in a very short time and transport them to Belgium. We are talking about millions of gloves, masks and other protective equipment. I also refer to the oxygen problem that we have solved with the rest homes. A great deal of work has been done, including in the field of testing, for example by scaling up 3,000 to 4,000 tests per day in 2 to 3 weeks to 20,000 to 25,000 tests, together with the clinical labs and various other parties involved. That is why I think it is absolutely justified that we have worked in this way. This expertise was clearly also needed to put the processes on hold. Now, however, the time has come to return to normality and reduce it. Another point that emerged was the discussion about how we are going to proceed and how we are going to keep these materials on the ground. There are guidelines on the rational use of protective equipment drawn up by the RMG and Sciensano. In this way, hospitals and other health care institutions have to deal with the material. In the meantime, a national production has also been built up, as well as an expertise within the hospitals on the reuse of material. In this way, we are fully engaged in ensuring that the materials are used in the correct way. For most of the questions on tracing, I have to refer to the regions that are responsible for this. You can always ask these questions to the relevant ministers, Mr Maron, Mr Beke and Mrs Morreale, to know how they deal with tracing. What is important to me is that we now have this inter-federal committee. I think everyone is represented there. If there are still problems to be solved, we are in the process of doing so. Different steps need to be taken in order to work more effectively. We are solving all the bottlenecks that remain. In particular, a very strict monitoring of the delay between the time when the sample is taken and the result must be carried out. In most cases, a delay of 24 hours or 36 hours is respected, so I think it is good, but monitoring must continue and increase efficiency in clinical labs as well as in central platforms. We do a constant monitoring of this element and we always try to find solutions to improve this process and provide a result within 24 hours. The second step is how data from the federal database are used by the Regions to begin tracing. A third element is also important, in my opinion, or even more. Are the call center employees really able to contact the index box, get the contacts and, above all, contact them later? Again, the time between the first contact and the time of a person's spacing or the completion of a test must be as short as possible. All this is being discussed with the Regions. Mr President, I have now replied for half an hour. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs De Block. If there are any other questions, I would very much like to answer them in writing. Should this possibly be a matter of punctual matters, then I would like to replicate later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u55	Mr De Backer, you spoke for 22 minutes. So you have a little more time. I see Mrs. Tillieux is connected. She's entitled to 4 minutes and 50 seconds to ask her questions. I'll give him the floor. It's a little unusual, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u56	Mr President, I first have a question about stocks. Minister, we were ill prepared to deal with the crisis and to ensure security of supply. We need medicines in stock in Belgium. Can you give us an overview of the strategic stocks in terms of drugs deemed vital and for which security of supply is absolutely necessary to prepare for a possible second wave during deconfining, so that deliveries can intervene more quickly? The big question is about testing. If we look at the number of tests performed every day, we find that we still do not reach the number of 25,000 and that we are rather around 15,000. There is a real difference between real capacity and what is being done on the ground. We could test more. The question is... especially to asymptomatic people in order to break the transmission chain. It is the full effectiveness of tracing that is behind this issue. As far as the repayment framework is concerned, is it not too strict? The national platform also raises questions. Is it really performing? Shouldn't more logistical resources be deployed? Some laboratories appear to be under-used, while delays between sending the test and obtaining the results are sometimes reported to be far too long. How can we get results faster? Now that the second phase of definization is underway, an ambitious screening policy is needed in communities as well as in the general population. If we have such a capability, why not exploit it? I'd also like to talk about serological tests. That's the big blur! There has been an order for more than 7 million tests, which could prove extremely useful in the deconfining process and provide us with information on the circulation of the virus, particularly in the ranks of healthcare staff. Are you considering deploying these tests in the very short term? What is the status of the discussions in this framework? What are the remaining brakes today? Is this the accompaniment of the people tested? Is this a question of funding? Is it a question of the reliability of these serological tests? Is this a matter of stock and supply? My next question is about the vaccine. Can you tell us what's going on in the search for a coronavirus vaccine? In Belgium, the Higher Council of Health is considering a vaccination plan and it seems to agree on three groups to be vaccinated as a priority: people over 65 years of age, people with hypertension or diabetes, and healthcare and paramedical staff. Are we actually going to prioritize its access? What measures could already be envisaged to ensure that our country can benefit from this vaccine when it is developed? Are the discussions on this subject anticipated so as not to relive the saga of masks? About the Sanofi controversy, have you had contact with your European counterparts to give a coordinated response at European Union level? If so, can you tell us more? Finally, I have a question about the resumption of non-emergency care. Minister, hospital facilities have recently resumed non-essential care. We know that during the period of confinement, patients did not dare to go to hospital because of the virus, which had the effect of postponing sometimes indispensable consultations. In terms of sexual and reproductive health, for example, many were unaware that family planning centres were mostly accessible. For example, we have been told of cases of young girls suspected of being pregnant, for whom there is concern about exceeding the legal time limit to resort to a possible termination of pregnancy. Today, it is a matter of reassuring patients and insisting that all precautionary measures are taken. On the hospital side, the pace of outpatient activities and technical examinations is considerably slower than the pre-crisis rate due to measures taken to regulate the flow of patients within hospitals, hygiene measures and the necessary disinfection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u57	Mrs. Tillieux, we have to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u58	Mr President, I come to my questions. Have you had any feedback on the decline in attendance and are you following the evolution? Should we not communicate more in order to avoid the dramatic consequences of late care? As for hospital financing, is a second cash advance expected in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u59	I think some of the answers were given by Mr. Backer. Minister, would you like to provide further information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u60	Mr President, I have not yet answered the question of medicines. The Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) is in the process of continuously tracking available stocks of drugs that are essential to the patient's treatment, as well as those that have an antiviral effect and are used in intensive care. The AFMPS therefore knows the stocks that, since the beginning of the crisis, were available in hospital pharmacies and pharmaceutical companies. Similarly, it shall be informed of the quantities planned until the end of the year. Our estimate is based on epidemiological models. However, in the event of shortages, precautions have been taken to increase production in Belgium and the amount allocated to pharmaceutical companies – in cooperation with the Public Health FPS. The strategic stocks and stocks available in the latter and hospitals are currently sufficient to meet the regular needs, whether or not related to VOCID-19, until the end of the year – given a possible second wave. I have already explained that the tests were much more extensive than at the beginning of the crisis. For example, 15,000 patients are tested for a positive result of 300. This means that the criteria are fairly broad. However, as mentioned above, it is up to the RAG and RMG, as well as the inter-federal testing and tracing committee led by Emmanuel André, to identify the problems and, perhaps, to extend the criteria. For my part, I have always pleaded for their greatest extension. For tracing, we are testing asymptomatics that may have been in contact with identified cases. So many people are being tested, but I am open to any improvement in the process. For serology, we also need to use tests – especially for epidemiological monitoring – and to use the stock obtained. We have been working on an increase in the number of tests. However, experts continue to debate where and when to use them and how to determine their validity criteria. As I said, we can give doctors the freedom to prescribe these serological tests, but also to use them – if necessary – at the time of diagnosis. However, this requires a change of strategy. This is being discussed within the RAG and RMG. This is also on the agenda of tomorrow's interministerial conference: how can we further improve this process and how can we use serological tests? Mrs Fonck also asked about the textile masks, which I missed. I may have missed more questions. For textile masks, normally, the SPF Economy is carrying out the checks. I haven't heard of a change in labelling. Sometimes, on the boxes of some masks, it is indicated that they are masks for medical use. This poses a problem if the mention of medical use appears on the box and they do not obtain certification for medical use. There is a discussion about labelling that needs to be changed, otherwise the product cannot be placed on the market. The same applies to masks that do not meet standards. If medical masks are imported, they must meet the standards. If we let the 93% masks go, it is a problem if we put them on the market directly, because they can escape control and be distributed to health care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u61	Mr President, first there were some questions from Mrs Merckx and Mrs Gijbels about the royal decisions on the recovery of health workers. It is our role to ensure that our patients are given the best care at all times and everywhere. Everyone agrees on that. The last few weeks have been very difficult circumstances. The caregivers have all had a lot of stress about the evolution of the situation in hospitals and residential care centres. The army even had to step in to feed and take care of people in the residential care centers. It is the possibility of making royal decrees within the framework of special powers, powers which have obtained the support of ten parties. It is the same royal decree for the requisition as that drawn up by Mrs.Onkelinx in 2009, as part of the worrying outbreak of H1N1 influenza at that time. Luckily, she never had to put it in. That system hasn't been activated. Now it is also temporary and only after a number of checks-and-balances. There must be a question, among other things, whether all other means are exhausted, whether the provincial medical inspector should be aware, whether the governor should be aware and so on. There was a lot of clarity. It was also again about the question of who can be used in a nurse's task. These are, of course, not just officials of the administrations, but people with medical training who work in another sector or function. There has mainly been a lot of syndical to do. It is no longer necessary, since the first peak is over. Then let's hope there's no second and third peaks. Maybe I can deal with this right away with the later questions about a higher reproductive factor. Now we can say that we have come out of very difficult weeks: the curve is in a downward phase and the situation has changed positively. It is not, therefore, a question of what was apparently said on the ground, because I have never said this about the people who have already given everything to themselves in hospitals and who are now tired or exhausted. We are indeed getting signals about this. There are surveys going on. How many of them will cease? How many people are sick at home? How many of them risk burning out? (...) If there is another increase, there is a real risk that there will be a shortage of nurses in our hospitals and residential care centres. That is why we have taken these two royal decisions. Some say that this would no longer be necessary, but it also happened with the approval of the regions, all of which had to step in to control the situation in the residential care centres. Tomorrow at 6 p.m. we have an Inter-Ministerial Conference. I suggest we talk about that then. Tomorrow at 8.30 a.m., I also convened a trade-union meeting so that everyone can express their opinion. On Friday the nuclear cabinet meets and on Saturday there is a meeting of the nuclear cabinet +10. By then, it will be clear whether the decisions will be repealed or maintained. I will not anticipate that. However, there has been a wrong perception. I understand the people on the premises are tired. They do not yet feel rested and then hear that they may be reclaimed. The advantage of the two KB's was that one can always claim when it comes to public health that it was made clear under what conditions that could be done, what security mechanisms had to be followed and who could be claimed. Otherwise it's not so clear, but the times have changed. The situation has changed. We will now ask the same people who have co-approved the scheme again what should happen in the next few days. As far as the strategic stocks of the masks and medications are concerned, the FAGG has, from the beginning, installed and followed up a stock of medication. For 20 essential medicines, we are now calculating whether we have enough for a second or a third wave. A detailed note on the masks is made by Minister De Backer and his collaborators, who will first be discussed at the core. That's the normal way of working. Mrs Depoorter, the teleconsultation was introduced immediately at the start of the epidemic. That was a tool for many aid workers. I had a video conference this week with a clinical psychologist. The general practitioners have also made use of this. Before restarting all medical activities there was an intense collaboration with the general practitioners' associations. Domus Medica and the Collège de Médecine Générale francophone have contributed to the Belgian guidelines published, together with the opinions of Sciensano, on the website of the FPS Public Health. Now the general practitioners are given an even more important role in the phase of detection of infections and the tracing of contacts. The input and feedback of Sciensano are crucial for the epidemiological monitoring and timely response to any local infection hotspots. An appropriate response will be drawn up each time. All healthcare providers will be informed transparently with a view to broad cooperation between all actors. The same applies to vaccinations. It goes without saying that they have already been the subject of discussions within the WTO Europe and the WTO. It's just waiting for a vaccine. The question is whether negotiations are already under way, but we do not yet know which firm will have a vaccine first in the race. However, we will have to take into account production capacity and the fact that there is very little immunity from the virus, of which we only have about 140 days left. I have asked the WHO to ask Europe to consider what the priority groups will be that need to be vaccinated first. At yesterday's WTO meeting, I also said that there must be a degree of solidarity worldwide. As soon as we have more feedback on this, we will certainly pass on the necessary information. Mrs Schlitz, the guidelines for implementation since 12 March are addressed to all health professionals who have been invited to postpone their consultations, reviews and non-essential interventions. But it goes without saying that all the urgent and necessary consultations, reviews and interventions could of course take place. Midwives have therefore continued to work – and we thank them – to ensure urgent and necessary care, while reducing risks. Where possible, consultations were conducted by telephone or videoconference. We also took into account the situation of midwives who also received FFP2 masks during the week of March 23. In addition, in mid-April, the advice of health care professionals was questioned on how to resume outpatient activities specific to their profession. As the Council of Midwives is out of office and awaiting renewal, it was the country's main professional associations that responded in a very short period of time, which we also thank them for. Based on the recommendations and consultations, the guidelines for the gradual restart of outpatient care activities in a private practice have been proposed and posted on the Public Health FPS website. Mr Prévot, to answer your question about the financing of sorting centres, you should know that there are three sources of funding: start-up funding, funding of the costs of coordination of nurses and administrative support, and funding of the costs of medical services. I have a detailed answer for each of these sources; I will communicate it to you immediately. In any event, payments have already been made. For Brussels, the German-speaking Community, Flanders and Wallonia, a total of almost EUR 4 million was paid. The amount relating to medical benefits was transmitted by INAMI. It is important to know that the files sent by the centres until May 4 have already been introduced into the payment system. I think I can say that a great deal of work has been done. Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Van Camp and Mr Bertels, you have asked questions about personal protective equipment. Philippe De Backer answered those questions. There were also questions about the distributions and about the register of professionals. The way the lists have been drawn up, I will send you. The lists shall be drawn up by the FPS. The FOD is still working to improve the errors that have crept into the deliveries. As Philippe De Backer has already indicated, it has been indicated on the website for some time when the profession will receive the delivery. That's a big improvement. Mrs Van Camp, you had a question about the nomenclature number for home care. The RIZIV has already communicated the modalities on its website. The Royal Decree will be published in the course of this week and will apply retroactively until 1 March 2020. About the funding of the hospitals there were questions from several members. The distribution of EUR 1 billion in advance between hospitals through Royal Decree No. 10 and the disbursement of general hospitals date from 23 April 2020. As regards the distribution of the advance internally within the hospital between the administrator and the self-employed care providers, a letter was delivered yesterday to the hospitals. The letter was prepared by the administrations of the FPS Public Health and the RIZIV after a large concert with the hospital domes, the doctors syndicates, the sickness funds, the Federal Council for Hospital Services and the Medicomut. There is also a survey of hospitals to establish the final additional funding, in order to identify the additional costs of COVID-19. Based on the results of the survey, which can be completed until 25 May 2020, the Federal Hospital Services Council will issue an opinion on the funding. There is also a demand from hospitals for additional funding, because the phasing out of elective and non-urgent care reduces the amount of money. The Federal Council for Hospital Services has already given an initial opinion on this matter, and this will now be developed in detail. The advance payment will then be regularised. This relates to the difference between the amount to which the hospital is entitled and the advance already received. Mrs Fonck, I sum up the full content of the circular that you can find on the website of the institutions concerned: 70% of the advance allocated is the subject of a consultation between the independent care providers and the hospital managers, 30% of the advance granted is paid to the hospital managers and is intended in particular to finance the additional costs of the period March-May 2020 resulting from the pandemic. This applies to personal protective equipment, the reorganization of the infrastructure, the activation of the contingency plan and the impact of reductions in revenue not financed by fees. Finally, it should be stressed once again that the above indicative directives concern an advance. The distribution applied within hospitals is provisional. A final legal regulation is under development. I think this is also a great job that has been done. I come to the retraining of job seekers into nurses. There were questions about Project Formation 600. This is already known in the federal health sector where it is managed by the social partners. This is a training course for nurses within the framework of a decision which the person concerned must take. There are special admission conditions and it is introduced at the level of the Maribel funds. The evaluation of the Formation 600 project is good. In the public sector, the success rate for nursing training is about 82%. In the private sector, the success rate is 85%. For caregivers, the success rate in the private sector is 90%. When the training is stopped, it usually happens for medical or family reasons. The proposal to make this more widely applicable has now been submitted to the social partners. This will be discussed next week. As Ms. Hmente asked, what is the strategy? We know that there are 5,000 vacancies for nurses alone. The number of student enrolments has decreased. It's much lower than last year. It may also be related to the coronavirus crisis. There are more nurses leaving the system than nurses entering the system. We know from interviews that a number of people in the sector are considering changing jobs. That's what's worrying us. This also puts pressure on those who are there, and that is partly the reason why people say that the pressure is too high, that leave is withdrawn and that we have to start working when we do not expect it. Hence this strategy: if there are not enough young people in training, there may be other people in second chance education. While there are 180,000 people at risk of becoming unemployed, we hope that this will not happen, some of them may wish to do so. Perhaps they have not had the opportunity to do so in the past, and now they want to take advantage of this measure. Of course, it is also up to the schools to recruit, but I do not think this is easy in these circumstances. As regards wearing masks, there is a consensus on the rational and correct use of mouth masks during the COOVID-19 pandemic. The website of Sciensano contains information about the types of masks and recommendations about their correct and rational use. This was developed in collaboration with the High Health Council, the FAGG, the Public Health Office, Ostbelgien and AViQ. I've already talked about the vaccine. Mrs Merckx, you asked how Belgian pharmaceutical companies are facing a patent pool. I haven't been able to ask them that yet. I have no idea what their position is either. If I see them for anything else, I'll ask them. I do not think that we should hold a special meeting for this purpose. In connection with European consultations, Health Ministers agreed at European level to develop a common vaccination plan for COVID-19. It is, of course, the ambition to ensure access to this vaccine for the population, of course according to priorities and target groups, and to prevent conflicts between Member States. We have already informed the European Commission that we are in favour of the purchase of these vaccines by a European group. Mr Crombez, you had a question about strengthening the mandate of the WTO. The Belgian Government has supported this motion for a resolution since the beginning. We see this initiative as an example of how the European Union should act in international fora such as the WTO. We are therefore co-sponsors of this resolution. Much progress has been made in these negotiations. I spoke yesterday, but the vote in the WTO will take place this evening. We hope that this motion for a resolution will be adopted this evening. Of course, I cannot guarantee that in advance, as you understand. It is important that in these negotiations the essence of the resolution was retained, namely that a new vaccine should be regarded as a global public good for health. Some countries have opposed this, but we continue to work for such a plan to be developed. In fact, if you like, I can e-mail you yesterday's statement to the WTO Assembly. Belgium also supports the motion for a resolution on patent pooling, but on a voluntary basis. There's no obligation in that. Mrs. Dock, you asked a question about medical plants. I have a detailed answer on these studies that I will forward to you. Mrs Depoorter, you asked a question about the European recovery plan. The Croatian Presidency held an informal meeting of the EPSCO Council on 12 May on this future pharmaceutical policy. At this meeting, I insisted that this pharmaceutical policy should include a management plan for future health crises in the pharmaceutical sector, but also a long-term strategic vision for the entire pharmaceutical sector, including medical devices. This strategy should be used by the Commission as a guide in the preparation of the resources of the strategic investment facility. In this respect, knowledge of the markets is, of course, an essential element, from the production of raw materials to the end of the distribution chain, in order to identify weaknesses and steer investment as best as possible. I believe that these investments should take into account certain issues such as diversification of the production chain, the development of rotating stocks, the relocation of certain critical productions, as well as research. COOVID-19 must not make us forget the importance of other fundamental research. There are other things that are important. Mrs Fonck, with regard to your question on serology indications and directives, such as Mr. De Backer has already said that the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) has facilitated access to and quality of many serological tests. Any clinical biology laboratory is allowed to perform serological tests and can obtain them from multiple suppliers. The terms of reimbursement and billing to the patient are set out in a royal decree currently being published. Today, a piece of this was published, namely the large KB No. 20, with the refund framework for both the CRP tests and the serological tests. In the coming week, there will be some kind of royal execution order and a letter will be sent to the doctors. Mrs Van Camp had a question about the steel extractions. There is currently no specific provision in the nomenclature for the purchase of a steel with a throat or nose wiper by doctors or nurses. There is no new regulation for this either. On the web page it is only confirmed that the benefits in kind for visits by general practitioners or general practitioners with acquired rights for a visit on the same trip for more than two rightholders can also be used for the sampling. Furthermore, the page mentions the fee for those performances, which includes the introduction, consultation and follow-up of the results via the cybernet. All applicable rules on invoicing, brake fees and third-payer arrangements shall continue to apply. The costs can only be charged if they have been carried out by general practitioners. If they were not carried out by doctors, they cannot be invoiced to the insurance institution. It is therefore not possible to charge a nomenclature number for nursing. A flat-rate hourly wage is provided in purchasing centres for nurses who would carry out the sampling. For samples taken from patients at home, there is no specific regulation yet. Several members had a question about the R-value. The communicated R value of 0.5 was calculated in a different way. We have already seen three methods. The R-value, which we now include in the reports, was calculated by Sciensano. This always uses the same method of comparing the values. It should also be reported that due to the decreasing numbers of new hospitalizations on which the R calculation is based, the precision of the figure also decreases. Since 7 April we have an R value of 0.6 to 0.8. The most recent one was 0.86. It's supposed to be below R-value 1. We have also started a benchmark on the R values in the surrounding countries. In the context of the contact tracing, no questionnaire shall be taken into account as to the circumstances in which the infection might have occurred. The focus is on identifying the contacts. It is also not always possible to trace all contacts. In relation to care for chronic patients and flu, the High Health Council has been asked for advice to determine target groups and groups at risk for vaccination. So we're going back to normal. A whole schedule has also been drawn up with the hospitals for the resumption of non-essential care. This is accompanied by the FOD and there is also a regular feedback to follow the start-up. For example, it specifies how many beds in intensive care hospitals should retain percentage and how should be scaled up if the flashing lights are on orange or red. Mrs. Van Camp, you asked a question about the health survey. As far as obesity is concerned, the federal government has a number of levers in its hands. We have therefore taken some important measures to encourage a healthy lifestyle. People have to stay in their quarters, but we did tell them to go hiking, walking or walking. Cycling was also quickly allowed, as well as, with the usual measures, outdoor sports. Other levers include improving the composition of foods, labelling, marketing against unhealthy foods with the pledge due to the weight of children and the introduction of the Nutri-Score. Smoke-stop treatments are also better reimbursed. A series of measures have also been taken in the area of alcohol consumption. In these corona times, of course, we also see a different behavior. People are more at home and eat more at home. Some talk about the coronakillos. Mrs Gijbels, you had a question about the second peak. We are drawing up a note, not just on strategic stocks. There is also regular consultation with the GEES to see which flashing lights we should keep, such as the limit value for the number of new hospital admissions. GEES states that it should be less than 200 patients a day. The trend should also be downward for the number of patients in the ICUs. So it's not just one flashing light, it's different flashing lights. The reproduction factor is also a flashing light. In response to a question from Ms Dock or Ms Taquin concerning Kawasaki disease, I should like to point out that I have already twice asked Sciensano for an opinion. I am told that there is no more virological infection and that this disease is quite rare in patients here, because it is a Japanese discovery. It seems that the Japanese would be more sensitive to this complication, but we are following this closely. It is a work done by Sciensano in collaboration with an organization of all paediatricians. The RMG recommends that the FFP2 mask be used only in persons exposed to aerosolising actions in potentially infected patients. This is usually the case with an intensive service, on bronchoscopic services, possibly with dentists and employees of COVID-19-ambulances. These chronic patients will then receive care in the hospital. It is not recommended for persons with a risk factor, for people with a status of chronically ill, their roommates and caregivers. Surgical masks and comfort masks should be worn in environments where the rules of social distance are difficult to respect. They're mandatory on public transport. They can possibly be worn in cases where the social distance cannot be kept. The federal government is committed to a wide, low-threshold distribution of masks. This is done through pharmacists, municipalities, voluntary associations and others. Hospitals at the entrance provide for a procedure for maintaining hygiene safety. There are also masks available to people who arrive without a mask. There are also separate entry and exit flows, disinfection, physical distance and so on. Wearing a mouth mask doesn't protect yourself, it protects the other. In hospitals there is, of course, solidarity with other patients, which makes it necessary for people there to wear masks when they move. Mrs Samyn, like Mrs Merckx last week, had a question about the quarantine attestation. The certificate is delivered to workers who are fit for work but cannot go to their workplace because they have been in contact with an infected person or because they are infected themselves, but asymptomatic, or because their medical situation is a risk, such as a defective immune system. Private sector workers who are asked to go into quarantine can still receive a wage, provided they can do telework. If this fails, they will be placed on temporary unemployment. The certificate shall not apply to family members of persons at risk. When people are sick, of course there is no quarantine certificate, but a regular disease certificate. The employer must always ensure that the worker can return to the undertaking in safe conditions. In this respect, guidelines have been drawn up for the companies. Consultation with the social partners is ongoing, as there are uncertainties for workers or families of workers at higher risk. There are several ways to assess that risk, but all precautions must be taken, including within the family, to prevent any contamination. I'll join the quarantine measures and the local authorities. Quarantine can only be legally imposed if someone is infected. The mayors don't get a list of these people. The duration of the isolation is 7 days for a person with COVID. If there are still complaints after 7 days, the GP may decide to extend the isolation until the complaints have disappeared. If there has been close contact, the duration of the quarantine is 14 days. That time starts from the last contact with the patient. For example, if this contact took place 4 days before the call center call was made, these 4 days will be deducted from the 14-day period and the person concerned will have to stay at home for 9 days. Mr President, I believe that I have answered the questions. However, there are still some issues to be addressed, because some of them are very technical and detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u62	I assume you will send the answers to those technical questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u63	Mr President, I have always mentioned this and given a piece of the answer, but the rest will be sent back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u64	Mr President, I still find it strange that the number of tests since the broadening of the test criteria on 4 May 2020 has not increased dramatically. I hear Minister De Backer say it's because patients just don't sign up. However, I hope that we will find out exactly what is causing this. Now that measures are being relaxed and people are seeing each other again, it is important that we can locate people with mild symptoms and trace their contacts. I also hear frequent references to Dr André taking charge of the further strategy. At the same time, I also hear him say that he would like to test much wider, especially with contacts of people who are infected. I think it is important that this is used as much as possible. For the revival of our economy, it is also important that as few people as possible who have to do 14 days of quarantine, especially if it turns out that they are negative after seven days. I therefore understand that the RAG and the RMG are particularly powerful in this regard. I would therefore urge you once again to tell us exactly which people are in these different groups. The communication of materials and availability seems very important to me. With regard to the strategic stock of medication and vaccines, I have not heard whether we are also taking into account a possible coincidence of a flu epidemic with a new peak. I'm also picking up signals that it's not so obvious to bring in enough flu vaccines. Is that something that's being thought of? Perhaps Mrs De Block will give an answer on the compensation for personal protective equipment for doctors and dentists. What exactly will it look like? Is it a specific nomenclature or a different type of remuneration? There are also a number of questions about tracing at the beginning of the epidemic, blood tests for testing and oral care in the residential and care centres, but I may get a written answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u65	Mr President, I am very pleased with the answers to the questions. Thanks again. I am pleased that you have responded to our question. Together we have achieved a good result with the increased fees for home care and then with retroactive effect. That's very nice. I am very happy today that we can achieve this for this sector which is facing very difficult times. You did say that the nomenclature number for the sampling of steel has not yet been settled. I'd like to ask you to take a look at this. Either it must be clear that the people of home care do not take the samples and are not reimbursed for them, but they are well trained and they do so well, both in the residential care and in the home environment of the patients. It's all hands on deck now. They are perfectly equipped for that. They will then have to be properly compensated for. I'd like to ask you to do something about that. With regard to the institutions, you referred to your solutions to the shortage of nursing staff. I totally disagree with you there. You have also suggested in the past that foreign workers should be attracted. You recently wanted to train the unemployed for the profession of nurse. I have already written a very clear opinion on this in 2018 as a result of your proposal. As long as the attractiveness of the nursing profession with better remuneration and more hands on the bed is not solved, that mopping is open with the tap. The new forces that we may be able to attract from any sector will soon be looking forward to this profession. We know that for every patient extra to take care of a nurse in a ward, not only the risk of avoidable death but also the risk of burn-out increases by 23 percent. There's no denying those numbers. You were very brief about the bonus for the care staff. You must not deposit it in the Maribel; you must provide a pre-destination for nursing staff who provide care in the hospitals. This can be guaranteed through the BFM, for example by raising the standard rate together with the Länder and providing funding at the federal level. The survey on structural funds for hospitals will run until 25 May. I will be happy to question you later on about the state of play. I also had a small question about obesity, to which you gave a limited answer. You referred to your initiatives in the previous legislature, which we took together with CD&V in Parliament. I am thinking, for example, of the labelling of healthy foods, but I have not yet heard any new initiatives. The figures show that action is really needed. They show that your former policy was inadequate. Nothing's happened since then. I therefore ask you to take action in this regard. I have not received an answer to my questions about the face shields either from you or from your colleague. Why did they choose fabric masks instead of face shields? They can be manufactured equally cheaply and there are no problems with substances, manufacture, filters and washing. They are instantly disinfectable and reusable They are durable and give an almost complete protection in the two directions. The eyes are also protected. With a face shield one also avoids touching the face. I would therefore ask you once again to consider buying it. In the meantime, I will also put the question to your colleagues Goffin and Geens, because in this country there are many ministers responsible for all protection materials. I will therefore address them with that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u66	Prevention is a regional issue. Perhaps you could ask that question in the regional parliaments to find out how many were ordered there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u67	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Minister De Backer for his answers. I have one rather important element: the creation of strategic stocks, which, finally, leads to an anticipation of a second wave which, it is hoped, will not happen. At this point, it's very important. I also mean that, compared to serological tests, blockages are still at the level of the experts of the RAG (Risk Assessment Group) and that this again raises the question of the decision-making process in view of their differences of opinion. And at some point, the best being the enemy of the good, it is important to make a decision and move forward, because that is what we expect in this crisis. I note, by making a quick benchmark, that in France, the High Health Authority decided, on 2 May, on very precise criteria in relation to the use of serological tests, despite the uncertainties, because they are confronted with them like all other countries. However, decisions have been taken. It would therefore be incomprehensible to the actors on the ground to have to wait. Decisions must fall to make real progress. Mrs De Block, I understand that your idea is to extend Training 600 to job seekers. The Maribel Fund, which organizes Training 600, is mainly intended for the non-market sector. At this time of year, 200 people are already registered without the means to attend this training because of a lack of budget. A proposal was made under the White Blouse Fund to increase funding for training, but also to improve the working conditions of health care staff. Indeed, in the end, a large number of graduate nurses have left the profession. If they were to return to hospitals, there would be no need for people to undergo new training. It is therefore necessary to question the reasons why they left the training, and it is also these reasons that need to be worked on. These are pressure factors, the working conditions that need to be improved. Again, in the nursing sector, we expect a comprehensive plan that takes into account both training and working conditions, the increase in the number of people at the patient's bedside and not just a measure that is slightly opportunistic and, above all, the Maribel Fund should not be used as an outplacement for private companies. Other funds may be used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u68	Mrs H annoyance, the Maribel Fund is managed by the social partners. It is not the Minister of Health who decides on his assignment. You are asking me things that are not within my competence but rather those of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u69	Minister, from the moment you quote Training 600, which is managed by the Maribel Social, you are still involved in the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u70	That is why I have asked for the opinion of the social partners on this proposal. There is social consultation. If we lack students and if professionals leave the profession, we still need nurses in our hospitals. That's what I want!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u71	To do this, you must also work on the other factors!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u72	Minister, you have responded to me with regard to the stockpiling of essential drugs. Thank you. You're telling me there's a note in Kern. I hope that it is sufficiently provided and that it will respond to fears because the nurses are already at the end of today, it would not require a second wave of VOCID-19 or a shortage of drugs, as has been heard in hospitals. I therefore insist that particular attention be paid to this point. Still about hospitals, Mrs De Block, you're answering me about the allocation of the $1 billion cash advance. You say that the measures taken were sealed yesterday with a 70/30 split between the issue of providers and the coverage of costs of protective equipment, contingency plans, the impact of revenue reductions as a result of the decrease in activity. All this is good, but the fear today is uncertainty about a second cash advance in the coming months, as the activity remains small. For example, would it be possible to examine the possibility of increasing the capacity for technical examinations by removing certain moratoria on medical-technical devices such as PET scan or MRI to avoid a bottleneck that would again lead to a postponement of care? This is in any case what the hospital federations propose. It would therefore be interesting if you thought about this and could answer us in this matter. On the vaccines, you also responded. Of course, you say that you take into account the production capacity, although you still don't know who will be able to supply it. I guess it's too soon. You are talking about thinking at European level. Of course I encourage you. At European level and at home too, we really need to be able to put everything in place to anticipate this time and, above all, to ensure that this vaccine is accessible. We must also be prepared to accept this vaccine and administer it to as many of our fellow citizens as possible at a fully accessible price. On the screenings, I shared with you the fears on the platform, which does not seem to work very well in terms of deadlines, in particular, with under-used hospital laboratories. I don't really have an answer, except that, Mr. De Backer, you're open to discussion. I hope that this can be discussed very quickly and that solutions...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u73	I answered that in the first set of questions. We're monitoring the federal platform. For 95% of the tests, the results are known within 36 hours. We are examining whether the timeframes are the same for all clinical laboratories. But in the first line, general practitioners usually work with their clinical laboratory. There, the results are largely known within 24 hours. This is important, but we are doing constant monitoring in our federal platform, as well as tracking by tracing, which is a regional competence. Thus, if someone is tested positive, they are contacted and there is a follow-up of their contacts, which allows them to also test asymptomatics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u74	I hope we will test asymptomatics! Otherwise, in itself, the entire tracking system...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u75	We're already doing it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u76	That's the sine qua non, to be able to do it. As for serological tests, I told you my concern. You told me you needed a strategy. I encourage you to implement it very quickly, with extremely precise criteria and not to wait. I've known you more responsive. This is going to be discussed in CIM: it's very good. I hope there will be strong decisions. We've known you more responsive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u77	Mr President, Madam and Mr Ministers, thank you for your answers. I understand that the funding of the sorting centres is in the process of being regulated. Of course, I can only rejoice. Minister, with regard to wearing the mask, I heard the answer. No surprise, she's been the same for weeks. Now, you must also understand that where you sin, it is in terms of the clarity of communication. Put yourself in the place of citizens who are not, like us, systematically immersed in the measures of the National Security Council. A few weeks ago, you told us in the same committee that wearing the mask is not necessary or even unnecessary. Then it was strongly advised, and mandatory in public transport. Some traders impose it on their businesses. It is mandatory for marketers, but not for their customers. I don't think that's clear. Many experts advocate wearing the mask at all times, in public spaces. I was asking you for a clear position. Obviously, she's not. In this case, the market will continue to be made in accordance with the measures recommended by the NSC. For my part, I remain convinced that this blurry does not reassure the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u78	Mr President, Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Some questions remain unanswered after all. For example, the question of Comeos' stock. How long have they had that supply? It is important to know whether they already had them while the healthcare sector was in big trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u79	I replied to that last week. I refer to my reply last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u80	Okay, thank you. As far as mouth masks that do not comply with the 95 % standard are concerned, I understand, of course, that there should be no confusion. I would certainly like to stress that the masks in the healthcare sector must comply with the 95 percent standard. It is, of course, a pity that a whole pack is lost that should not be lost. It must be possible, for example, to have new labelling used by citizens, in shops or in public transport. By May 20th, everyone would get a mouth mask on the bus. Well, it's now May 19th and we haven't gotten a mouth mask on the bus yet. I believe that many citizens are still waiting for it. I do not know whether this is because there are still not enough masks or because the spread is difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Like last week, you stated that the quarantine certificate, which would allow family members of risk groups with the permission of the GP to work out from home or prolong temporary unemployment, does not apply to family members of someone at risk. These family members must respect the general prevention measures and hope that their employer will do everything in his power to prevent contamination. Hopefully you can imagine what extra care and stress this entails for live-in relatives of those at risk patients, as well as for the patients at risk themselves. Why not provide for a temporary exception for certain specific cases, whereby partners and resident family members of specific risk patients can obtain a quarantine certificate if their general practitioner considers it necessary, so that they can either work from home or extend their temporary unemployment. A clear framework, as is the case in France, is a must. Please clarify these people. They've got enough to worry about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u82	Was the latter not also a question from the social partners? I've already had that question. I understand there's a concern. For a roommate with a chronic condition and therefore a high risk, one must act as if one of the two is infected at home, not only when one goes to work, but also when one goes to do an errand. So one must keep all the distance, not sit in the seat together and so on. That's the safest way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Taquin has had to leave us, but she certainly thanks the two ministers for their answers. For my part, I will read Mrs De Block's one carefully and, if necessary, return to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u84	Mrs. Slegers sent word through the app that she thanked us and that she had to leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u85	Madam Minister, as I understand it, these two royal decrees on the requisition and on the nursing acts were taken in agreement with the super kern but also in agreement with the regional authorities. This is interesting because it was the latter who were unable to include all volunteers who were willing to invest in the field. Finally, very few of these volunteers were mobilized. I am glad that you have chosen the consultation with the trade union organisations tomorrow morning. I therefore propose that you prepare the garbage to throw away these royal decrees, because there is their place. These royal orders are in addition to the cuts you have made in health care and the difficult working conditions that lead to burn-out. The burn-out problem was already present before the VOCID-19. Today I will tell the nursing staff a sentence from Bertolt Brecht: "He who fights can lose, but he who does not fight has already lost". I send them all my encouragement for them to mobilize and make themselves heard. It is only by fighting and showing themselves, as they did at Saint-Pierre, that they can be heard. Minister, I hope that the message has passed and that you will withdraw these royal orders and listen to the sector, because it has things to say to ensure that our hospitals work well and that our patients can be properly treated. As far as the patent pool is concerned, I am surprised at your answer. Sanofi has threatened the European population not to be able to access the vaccine and you are doing nothing! You go to the WHO General Assembly and you didn't ask the Belgian firms if they wanted to participate in the patent pool. You don't even know what the Belgian companies think, whether they work there or not, but you are in favour of them working there. That is really not to include the words. If you're for the patent pool, before you go to the WHO, the least you can do would be ask the pharmaceutical companies that are on your territory if they're really going to make sure everyone has access to the vaccines they're developing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u86	I would like to thank the ministers for their answers. I have no further questions or comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u87	I will begin with my most specific question. Mr De Backer said that EUR 1 million has already been committed for contracts with consultants. I would like to point out that the amount makes me dizzy, given the messy way in the procedures in the field and the complaints made by Flemish companies about that market. I saw this afternoon that the rate of reproduction is back on one. It can be said that it is an average and that statements are premature, but a month ago it stood at 0.8. That is why I would like to make two comments on testing and tracing. I am very concerned about the fact that testing depends on the number of patients offered. Let me give you a concrete example. A retirement home where 20% of the staff and residents are infected will receive a no to the management's request for additional testing of all personnel. There are now 15,000 tests and a capacity of 20,000 to 25,000 tests. How can tests requested in such situations be refused? It may be that the refusal takes place through the regions, but I do not care about that. If people are really in need, things don't go well. So this should not depend on the number of patients that are offered. There should be tests available for people who need to get things under control. I'll be very brief about tracing. We've been sucking for a month and a half. Everything we read today about tracing is not very encouraging. Since fourteen days we have been gradually coming out of the lockdown, which makes sense, only the testing and tracing should have been fully operational, and that is not the case. You didn't convince me in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u88	Mr Crombez, if there is such a case as you are describing, then there is a mistake. After all, the procedure for a residential care center is the following. If a case is identified, the coordination doctor should take a test through the clinical lab with which he is connected. If it turns out that several people are infected, the federal platform can be asked to retest the entire residential care center, including the staff. Of course, it all starts with the doctor who prescribes a test. He is the gatekeeper of persons with mild symptoms. He has to decide whether these people should be tested. That's where it starts. The contact tracing also continues on asymptomatic people. The same procedure applies to collections. If there's a question, please feel free to contact me. Those people must then be effectively followed, that is a fact. If it isn't, it's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u89	I won't make a case of it here, but I'll get you the case. The doctor asked for additional tests, but they didn't get them. Some of the people are ultimately able to be tested by getting into an academic program. That happened a few days ago. I'll get you the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u90	I'd love to. I'll follow up on that. That is really not possible, and that is not correct. We have the capacity to do that, so there's really no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u91	That is my point and that is why I should like to make that point. It should work that this is the only case. However, we absolutely do not want that. Mrs. De Block, you described the hospital's request for funding. In the meantime, are you receptive to the fact that they really need this additional structural funding? I agree with Mrs Merckx's concern regarding the meeting with the WTO and the patent pool. Thank you for your answer. I'll be sure to read it. It's a very important part of this story anyway. We must give that absolute priority. For the long term and the good functioning, the patent pool needs to be created.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u92	Mr President, I am waiting for the written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u93	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. However, it must be noted that you repeat to us, every week, the same answers about screening whether for PCR tests or for serological tests. As far as PCR tests are concerned, it has now been more than a month since we were told that the indications would be extended. As for serological tests, it's been two or even three weeks since you promised me that they would arrive the next day. I hear now that you are questioning the RAG, the RMG, the Regions that are involved in the decisions. The latter say exactly the opposite. You are referring today to Emmanuel André, who, for his part, speaks in the press to say that the indications must be changed. This is a policy where we go in circles, where we don't decide, which is not agility, whereas to be effective and avoid a rebound, it is crucial to do what we didn't do at the beginning of the crisis and that we would have done better. Today, a week-to-week postponement is no longer acceptable. It is necessary to have an effective testing, prerequisite in the context of deconfining. We know we need a combination of PCR tests and serological tests. And yet we continue to send back tomorrow and the day after! This management is totally unacceptable, given the delays, the lack of anticipation that has been demonstrated in recent weeks. I can therefore only encourage you to pursue a decisive policy. Indeed, I am tired of seeing everyone express themselves in the press saying that it is necessary, that it is necessary, that it must, whereas in reality no one decides. As I have just said, this decision is crucial if we are to be effective and avoid a rebound. Madam and Mr. Ministers, what is happening is quite ridiculous. I've been saying the same thing for weeks. I do not understand that you who are at the helm agreed to continue to radote the same thing, as is also the case with scientists. Everyone seems to agree, but nobody's acting. This is unacceptable! As far as hospitals are concerned, I know, Madam Minister, that the circular in question has been sent to them. I am struck by the fact that this is still an advance (one billion euros), which will have to be recovered at one time or another while they have recorded additional costs, a large decrease in their financial receipts over the last two months, which you continue to require – and this is normal – strategic reserves in the beds of intensive care units and hospital units where this reserve is multiplied by three. All these beds are frozen, which will further worsen their financial situation. We don't need any more speeches on advances. We now need to be clearly informed of the financial guarantees for the coming months and for the past months. Otherwise, we would be in a catastrophic situation with regard to hospitals, both on the patient side and on the side of all caregivers. Let me say another word about nurses. Trying to attract through Training 600 or otherwise, by being partners of employers and unions, why not? Provided that the training is of high quality. But this is one element, and many more are needed. We need an approach to the entire nursing career, working conditions, the end of careers, and recognition as a difficult job. These are all points which have not been decided in recent years and which leave a bitter taste for all the nurses concerned. I won't be longer. I will insist, however, that the rebuilding of the strategic stock of protective equipment should not be done from the material of large surfaces, especially for masks. Indeed, they have benefited only from self-control and quality raises a wide range of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u94	Mrs Rohonyi, you have heard the presentations, so you can reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u95	Mr. President, I apologize. I sat on the Committee on the Interior, which explains my late arrival. Of course, I refer to the written text of my questions for the full record.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic180x.u96	I'd like to go back to the screening tests. I hear that constant monitoring is done and that we would be able to test asymptomatic people. But what we see in the field is certainly this ability to test, but also that in practice only 13,860 tests have been carried out in the last 24 hours. This implies that only half of this testing capacity is used today, especially because the approved laboratories are not fully associated or not as they should be, to our testing strategy. This is really regrettable, especially at a time when we have started deconfining and where tracing requires a real testing strategy. I would have liked to hear from you about the strategy you are planning to achieve these 25,000 tests, or even the 45,000 tests, as you have had the opportunity to say in several of your interventions. Today, Emmanuel André pleads for an extension of the testing criteria. His appeal was supported by the GEES. I think that is essential, but the question remains as to whether we are in a position to do so. As far as vaccines are concerned, Madam Minister, your priority, in my view, must be to ensure that we are able to pool our efforts at European level, both in terms of research into this vaccine and in terms of its placing on the market. There is a willingness at European Union level to move in this direction with a contribution of € 7.4 billion. Yesterday, Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron launched an appeal to strengthen the European Union's solidarity to respond to this health crisis, particularly in the search for this vaccine. I believe that momentum is on the way, in which our country must fully participate. I would like to conclude by going back to the legitimate anger of the health care staff. We must recall the context of the adoption of these famous royal decrees of special powers. These royal decrees implement the law of 27 March 2020 which was adopted in the context of the peak of the epidemic. We did not know at that time whether our hospitals would be able to respond to this epidemic, particularly in view of the shortage of staff in our hospitals and nursing homes. I would like to recall that the army had to be requisitioned at that time. The problem is that today, these royal decrees have been published in a completely different context and are therefore perceived as a slap by the healthcare staff. Madam Minister, I hope that you are open to discussion, to consultation with the unions, but also to the withdrawal of these special power orders. It is indeed more than time to recognize the caregiving staff in their practice, to recognize that they must be supported and considered in the light of the tremendous and essential efforts that they have made in general and, in particular, since the beginning of this crisis.
