ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u1	Colleagues, the minister, who was attending the National Security Council, has just arrived. Of course, we excuse him for this slight delay. I do not think, however, that he will give us information about the National Security Council. There are a great many issues on the agenda; I have listed about 90 of them, some of which are attached. In addition, there are three topical debates. We'll start with these. The first relates to tax returns, the second to tax havens and the third to Brussels Airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you know, there were permanences organised by the FPS Finance in the municipalities to help our fellow citizens complete their tax returns. Being myself the mayor of a small commune, I can tell you that these permanences met with great success. However, due to the pandemic of VOCID-19 and the limited contacts it implies, these permanences could not be organized this year. In doing so, FPS Finance organized a telephone filling aid. I would also like to welcome the initiative that has been taken here, especially since, depending on what is happening to me, this aid is working well. Nevertheless, I would like to go back to the permanences organised before the health crisis. Indeed, as I said, they were so successful that some municipalities were not always able to provide sufficient service for all their inhabitants. To such an extent that some people were forced to go to permanent offices in neighbouring communes, thereby de facto reducing the supply for local citizens. However, before the outbreak of the health crisis we are experiencing, it came back to me that these permanences were going to be reduced in the future. Minister, can you confirm to me that the objective is to reduce the supply of permanences in the future? Do you have statistics on the number of municipalities and citizens assisted in previous years? What about the telephone system put in place during the crisis? Are the results conclusive at this stage? Is not filling aid an effective way to limit the number of errors in reporting and thus reduce the administrative burden on tax officials?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u3	Mr Bayet, thank you for respecting your two-minute speaking time. I would like to take this opportunity to ask all speakers to do the same, given the number of issues on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u4	Mr President, Minister, within the framework of the corona measures it was decided to cancel all sessions of the FPS Finance, where taxpayers can be helped on the spot to fill in their tax bill. The only way to get help is by telephone. We know that in 2019 620,000 compatriots made use of this physical aid, which shows that the need is high. Practice now shows that help by telephone is not enough for many people. No matter how hard the administration tries, some people don't understand what to do. We also know that corona measures are constantly evolving. You will certainly know all the details of this. Meanwhile, more and more services are reopening across the country. With the help of plexiglass and possibly a mouth mask for the visitor, it should therefore be practically possible to organise those sitting days on the spot, specifically aimed at those taxpayers who have so far fallen out of the boat by telephone. I know you are not in favour of this, but in order to get it organized in practice, you might consider extending the time limit for filing the tax return by a few weeks. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, how many taxpayers have so far been helped by telephone? How does this number relate to the number of taxpayers who have already been physically helped in other years? Secondly, is it being considered to organise sitting days in the coming weeks by means of protective measures, specifically for those taxpayers for whom the telephone call is not clear? Finally, are you considering extending the time limit for filing the tax return by a few weeks, so that physical assistance can still be organised for those who really need it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I would like to echo what the other speakers have said. There has always been a tradition of good assistance: 620,000 agreements were made in 2019 to help taxpayers with their tax bill. That's breaking up now. Everything is replaced by a telephone system. It is important to mention that, in addition to the assistance provided by the FPS Finance, civil society organisations and volunteers also helped. This aid, too, is now a lot less and even impossible in the current corona times and with the current measures. When we look and hear on the ground, we notice that a whole range of organisations, including poverty organisations, are constantly getting questions and comments from people who cannot be helped. That depends on a number of things. It is primarily a matter of telephone access. There is, on the one hand, a system with a special telephone number, to which people who have completed a tax return on paper can call. On the other hand, many people also call the general number. During a certain period of time there was also a problem, in order to actually reach that number. Something must therefore be done about the communication of these telephone numbers. What about the capacity and communication around those two phone numbers? You're considering granting a postponement, aren't you? That is certainly also a question from the organisations on the ground, so that they can be given a little more space to help people. Finally, the rumor is that in the future the agreement system will continue to be replaced by a definitive telephone system. Is that what you're considering? Can you tell me a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I have added another question which was a little further on the agenda. I believe that a number of structural problems with the simplified tax return should also be addressed in this debate. The Federal Ombudsman has been receiving quite a number of complaints about the simplified tax return for a long time. He wants to check whether the FPS Finance is sufficiently transparent to the citizens about this VVA, in which the tax authority already fills in a large part of the data in advance. These data come from databases, of course. Apparently, there's a series of recurring problems. The number of VVAs sending out finance has increased by more than 50% in five years. It's about 3.2 million civilians last year. However, there appear to be quite a number of citizens having problems with encrypted or missing data, which may lead them to miss out on certain tax advantages. Although the VVA makes it easier for citizens to make the declaration, they have few points of comparison to check that the automatically completed data is correct, according to the Ombudsman. In the meantime, they remain responsible for their declaration and therefore implicitly agree if they do not respond. The Ombudsman would have started an investigation to determine whether the FPS is sufficiently clear and transparent. You said in the Chamber a few weeks ago that the proposed calculations are, of course, only a proposal and that the taxpayer has a duty to check this, but I can imagine that it is not so obvious for a number of people. How do you and the FPS Finance react to the apparently recurring problems surrounding the VVA, as pointed out by the Ombudsman? Has the FPS Finance in the past had contact with the Ombudsman about possible structural problems with regard to the VVA? Has this been remediated yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u7	Mr Bayet, the General Tax Administration is constantly working on its service offer. For example, the extension of the self-service offer is on the agenda and initiatives are being launched to improve telephone accessibility. For many citizens, the obligation to complete their declaration annually has been facilitated. For the 2019 tax year, the number of taxpayers who received a Simplified Tax Return (SDR) proposal increased by more than 730,000 to more than 3.9 million. If the PDS is correct, these taxpayers have nothing to do and if they have to correct something, they can do it themselves via MyMinfin, so that it is no longer necessary to present themselves in our offices. This does not mean that our offices would no longer be accessible, on the contrary. The "individual" administration continues to offer a comprehensive service face-to-face both in our offices and in the municipalities. In 2019, my administration organized 1,191 sessions in 495 communes for 1,304 sessions in 477 communes in 2018. As a result, there were fewer sessions in 2019 than in 2018, but the number of participating municipalities was a little higher. We do not have figures on the number of declarations per commune, but the number of declarations completed by officials was 618,399 as at 11 July last year. This number has declined sharply in recent years. Indeed, in 2013, it reached just over 1,070,000. Given this 40% decrease in demand, it is logical that my administration should adjust its service offerings accordingly. Filling electronic declarations is indeed a way of reducing the risk of errors, but the proposal for simplified declarations is equally so. As for the workload, the number of meetings held in our offices and in the municipalities also represents a large workload for our agents, a burden which the administration seeks to reduce by encouraging citizens to complete their statements online, as well as by sending more and more simplified proposals. Mr Vanbesien, a total of 114,256 declarations have already been completed. That was the state of play on 29 May 2020. On 29 May 2019 there were 173.354. Last year a total of 614.187 declarations were completed. By increasing the proposals for simplified declaration, 346,126 returns via Tax-on-web officials are expected this year. On that date, 346,126 returns were also filed via Tax-on-web citizens. Last year there were 275,639. All these figures are followed daily. Since the same help is offered by telephone and this system works very well, it is not considered to organise sitting days. The buildings have not been adapted to accommodate thousands of citizens in safe conditions, as in the past few years. For certain target groups, such as deaf people and hearing impaired persons, specific assistance is offered by telephone. Nor is it envisaged to grant a general delay and to organise physical assistance for completing the declaration. Taxable persons still have sufficient possibilities to complete their declaration before the normal deadline. For citizens affected by COVID-19, an individual delay for reasons of force majeure may be requested if necessary. In total, it concerns a pool of about 600 agents who are available to organise the appointments. A pool of up to 2,000 agents is available to help fill out the declaration and assist the citizen by answering telephone questions. Mr Matheï, as regards your question about communication to citizens and about informing them about the possibility of receiving telephone assistance. There have already been many communications and many more will follow, including through the website, press conferences, newspapers and communication to cities and municipalities. If you wish, I can provide you with an overview of this. As for your request to replace the sitting days next year with telephone help, the feedback from the taxpayer on the system is generally positive at the moment. After the Tax-on-web period an analysis can be made. I don't think we can do that yet. In general, I would like to thank the FPS Finance for the very profound reform it has had to do to organise this. In the end, everyone was confronted with this crisis. It has been possible to reorganise this very quickly, knowing that the officials had to work from home as well. We have until 30 June. I think there are a lot of opportunities to arrange this by telephone. You should also know that a lot of taxpayers of whom we have the contact details have been proactively called by the FPS Finance to organise an appointment. This is a very high level of service. I assume that we will thus provide sufficient flexibility for everyone to ensure that the tax return is correct, knowing that almost 60% of the declarations have been completed in advance. The taxpayer must, of course, check the declaration, just as you would check an invoice you receive at home. For the vast majority, however, no further action is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u8	Minister, thank you for all this information. The situation is obviously special, both for the citizens – who have to manage by phone – and for your administration – who try to do everything possible by responding to them, because it is not always easy to understand people. Although electronic reporting is becoming more widespread, these facts demonstrate that contact with the administration remains essential. That is why I hope that in the years to come this opportunity will continue to be offered to all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u9	I understand, of course, the difficult circumstances and the pressure of time to get the file in order. If we don't physically help organize, I'm afraid we'll have a workload in the next few months. I fear that several declarations will be made wrong or perhaps not. Then all this must be corrected at that time. This is not about people who are ill, but about people who cannot, for whom it is too difficult, because of the language or other thresholds. If that happens, let us at least be aware that there is no malice involved, but that it is the result of the understandable inability of many to properly complete the particularly complex tax return and of the fact that a very good and busy service cannot be organised this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u10	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. It is indeed a special time and it is not easy to continue to ensure good service in corona conditions. I would like to express my gratitude to those who are doing their job perfectly in this area. I also welcome the fact that we are taking another step forward in digitisation with the increase in the number of pre-filled declarations. However, communication must continue to be used so that taxpayers clearly know what to do and where to call. Sufficient capacity should also be provided. This is necessary for all people, but especially for those who do not have or do not have sufficient digital know-how. I am also looking forward to the ex-post evaluation to check whether the system has worked and what the exact figures are, so that lessons can be learned and, if necessary, adjusted. Finally, I would ask you to consider a general delay in the final and ongoing monitoring, especially in the event of a continuing demand from organisations that accompany people in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u11	Mr Minister, could you not have answered my specific questions about complaints from the Federal Ombudsman and a possible investigation that he would have started to check whether the FPS is clear and transparent enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u12	The number of simplified declaration or VVA proposals has increased over five years from around 2.1 million to 3.9 million. My administration has already contacted the Federal Ombudsman about the problems with the VVA. Following the examination of structural problems, a meeting took place on 4 March between the Federal Ombudsman and my administration. In any case, my administration will do everything in its power to take account of the comments made by the Federal Ombudsman and to improve the process of the VVA and its communication. The current refinement of the simplified declaration proposal means that around 90% of the proposals are not corrected by the taxpayer. If correction is required, the taxpayer may do so by returning the reply form of the simplified declaration proposal or by making his corrections directly via Tax-on-web. If the taxpayer does not respond after receiving his VVA, his benefits are not definitively lost. He may still ask to take it into account by submitting an objection as soon as he receives his hit note.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u13	Other groups may intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u14	Minister, I would like to respond to your announcement that physical contact with the tax administration will not be possible. As part of the next phase of the relaxation of the corona measures, you said a few hours ago that we are now entering a stage where everything must be possible, provided that the rules on distance, hand hygiene and mouth masks are respected, except for what is really forbidden, such as mass events. When there are so many sectors rebooting or rebooting and taking so many precautions, I do not understand why it would not be possible to organise sitting days with the tax administrations, all the more so because there is still some time until the deadline. It must be possible to organise physical contact for taxpayers who really need to fill in their tax returns. I don't understand why you can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u15	The first speaker, Mr Bertels, is not present. I call Mr Ravyts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u16	Mr President, Minister, the companies in our country made EUR 172.3 billion in payments to the so-called tax havens in the 2019 attack year. Most of the payments that flowed to the tax havens in the 2019 tax year, 2018 income year, went to the United Arab Emirates, followed by Uzbekistan, the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and Turkmenistan. Companies are obliged to report payments from EUR 100,000 to some 30 tax havens at the tax office. I believe that legislation was introduced in 2010. In the tax year 2019, 790 companies and other legal persons had to make such a declaration. There were fewer than the previous years in terms of numbers of companies and legal entities, but in the 2018 tax year there were 206 billion euros in payments. With EUR 172 billion, we are still well above the figures for 2016 and 2017. We are not necessarily talking about fraud here, but about reported payment traffic, which fortunately is screened. Is the report true that of those nearly 800 companies 75 files were checked, and finally 10 ended up with the BBI? What amount do the latter represent? What is the status of these files? Why are there no statistics on the sectors involved? If that's illegal, why? How many of the transactions are made by financial institutions? There is a great deal of payment for this. Does the Minister consider that EUR 100,000 is an appropriate limit in the context of the notification obligation? Does the Minister consider that a lower reporting limit could be useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u17	Minister, we have already addressed this issue on several occasions, as the media regularly reveal how easy it is to place important assets in tax havens. Before the crisis of the VOCID-19 broke out, the press informed us that in 2019, 172 billion euros had left Belgium to tax havens. This has been established for many years, in particular thanks to the work of several special committees or to investigations carried out here, but also within the European Parliament. As part of the parliamentary investigation into major tax fraud in 2009, it was recommended that a voluntary reporting obligation be introduced for business transactions with a tax haven. In PanamaPapers committee, this debate has obviously come back to the table. Without going back to the lack of the will of the majority at the time to support ambitious recommendations, I would nevertheless point out that one of them concerned the obligation to report transactions of more than EUR 100 000 to tax havens. We were thus in favour of making mandatory reporting of all transactions – regardless of the amount. However, this request was rejected. Today we see where we are... These 172 billion euros represent the visible part of the iceberg and prove that tax havens are still of great interest to Belgian companies – an interest that is difficult to imagine is not purely fiscal, unless you explain to me the reason, Minister. It would also appear that most transactions originate from financial institutions. It will be recalled to what extent the outgoing majority had rejected ambitious recommendations to control the banking sector. Today we see all the loopholes that will have to be filled in this area. What is more, these sums are all the more shocking because unfortunately expenditure will remain necessary to manage the crisis and to revive the economy, de facto creating Belgium's public deficit. This burden should not be based solely on the shoulders of workers, self-employed persons and TPEs, who pay their taxes each year, while colossal amounts are diverted to tax havens. Minister, could you describe the way in which the FPS controls Finance as soon as a transaction to a tax haven has been declared? What service does this information reach? Is an investigation systematically initiated? When is a file transmitted to the ISI? What are the amounts recovered by the SPF for 2018? How is it possible that so many billions will escape the government's revenue? Next, the press refers to the diamond sector as one of the most active in tax havens. Do you confirm this information? Are other sectors of activity to be identified? Finally, are the financial institutions – as well as the Big Fours who work around them, being both judges and parties without worrying about conflict of interest issues – ever called to account? This phenomenon is indeed becoming unbearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u18	Mr President, Minister, it is true that we are talking about the EUR 172 billion in payments to mainly the United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and the totally unsophisticated Turkmenistan. In relation to this, I have the following questions. What other reason, in addition to tax avoidance and tax evasion, do you consider likely to be the cause of these payments since the real economic links between Belgium and these countries are minimal? This taking into account the definition of "real and genuine transactions." Do you think that the State is losing revenue as a result of these transactions? Why are these figures not automatically made public every year and should they be called up each time? Can that change? Your predecessor said that professional secrecy meant that no breakdown by region, sector or volume of the declared payments could be made to the main detectors or communicated to Parliament. Do you share that analysis? Is it true that the FPS Finance itself does not keep statistics on the sectors involved in these payments, nor on the types of transaction? If that's true, why doesn't the FOD keep track of those analyses? Your predecessor stated that in 2017 four employees worked at the Cell to combat tax havens, for whom the main task was to verify whether these payments were indeed real transactions that did not take place through artificial constructions. Is that still the number of people active in it? In your opinion, is this sufficient, given the large volume of amounts? Finally, in view of the fact that this amount is more than twice as high as in the 2017 tax year, what do you consider to explain these large differences?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u19	Minister, the list of countries for which the return is to be introduced – that is, the list provided for in section 179 of the Royal Order implementing the Income Tax Code (IRC 92) – has not been updated since 2016. But there is a more fundamental problem, namely the notorious absence of countries that are among the most formidable tax havens on the planet. In his book The Hidden Wealth of Nations, renowned expert Gabriel Zucman notes that 8% of households' world financial assets are hidden in offshore squares. This represents €5,800 billion, of which 30 per cent are in Switzerland and the remaining 70 per cent in other tax havens, the main ones being Singapore, Hong Kong, the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, Luxembourg and Jersey. Three of these countries are on the Belgian list, but four – Switzerland, Singapore, Hong Kong and Luxembourg – are not. The same applies to corporate tax. Non-governmental organization (NGO) Oxfam has published the list of 15 worst tax havens for multinationals to escape tax: Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Netherlands, Switzerland, Singapore, Ireland, Luxembourg, Curaçao, Hong Kong, Cyprus, Bahamas, Jersey, Barbados, Mauritius and British Virgin Islands. Five of these countries are included in the Belgian list, but this is not the case for the other ten, of which the four EU Member States are the Netherlands, Ireland, Luxembourg and Cyprus. The interest of the lists referred to above lies in the fact that they are based on a practical and statistical analysis of reality and, therefore, without political-diplomatic or other considerations. Why are the well-known tax havens mentioned above – we could, however, mention others, such as Delaware – missing from the list provided for in Article 179? For example, does Luxembourg escape the requirement of Article 307 of IARC 92, i.e. an "effective tax burden on income of less than 15% foreign origin", given that, according to Zucman's website, this country collects 58% of its tax revenue from enterprises by artificially attracting $66 billion subject to a tax rate of 3%. Mr Minister, my second question concerns more specifically the United Arab Emirates. This country ranks first among the countries that benefited from the above-mentioned payments. The press did not specify the exact amount, but noted that it had been the third consecutive year that the United Arab Emirates was at the top of the list of Belgian payments in tax havens. If we take the average of previous years, since we do not have that of the last year, we stand at around 70 billion euros per year that go to the United Arab Emirates. However, if we look at Belgian imports from the United Arab Emirates, they only amount to 1.2 billion euros, only in the first 11 months of 2019. The gap between imports and payments is quite impressive. Minister, can you provide the amount of payments reported in 2019 to the United Arab Emirates as well as to the other countries on the list? As far as the United Arab Emirates is concerned, how do you explain the difference between the amount of payments and the amount of imports? Finally, it was reported that the control of payments to these tax havens would have made it possible to recover EUR 20 million in two years. Twenty million euros compared to the hundreds of billions of payments we are talking about – 172 billion – are they not derisory? Shouldn't the number of agents be increased? Indeed, there are currently only four of them working for the tax haven unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u20	The Tax havens of the Anti-Fraud Coordination Department shall receive annually the list of payments to tax havens as indicated in Annex 275 F. From this list, files are selected which are subject to a preliminary examination. On the basis of the results of that preliminary examination, taking into account, of course, other relevant elements, files are either closed or delivered to another for further examination. Depending on the case, the investigation will then continue to be followed by either the General Administration of Taxation or the General Administration of the BBI. It is impossible to determine the number of full-time equivalents dealing with the monitoring and control of payments to tax havens, just because of this close cooperation between agents of the Antif-Faude Coordination Service, the AAFisc and the AABBI, who also have other control tasks. It is important to know that all cases are thoroughly investigated without exception, regardless of whether they are delivered to the AABBI or to the AAFisc. In reply to your question about the ten files delivered to the AABBI, I must inform you that these relate to declared payments from the 2018 tax year and not 2019. Since the investigation is ongoing, it is premature to discuss its results. First of all, it should be stressed that many of these payments perfectly meet legitimate economic or financial needs. In cases where the conditions laid down in Articles 307 and 198 of the WIB 92 on payments to tax havens are not met, the sanction provided for shall consist of the rejection of the expenditure in question. There are numerous situations which give rise to a correction in the rejected expenditure, making it impossible to determine the exact share of infringements relating to payments to tax havens. As a result, it is not possible to report on the impact of these corrections. In the audit selection, the AABBI shall take into account a whole range of parameters to determine whether a file should be included in its work plan. This means that, where relevant, risk groups are selected to enable efficient selection and handling of the dossiers concerned. In general, all taxable persons have an interest in complying with their tax obligations, even when it comes to the declarations and documents to be submitted. This is all the more true in order to justify the deduction of payments made to tax havens. However, it is impossible to report the infringements because they are not to be identified in an automated manner but only by an on-the-spot check. In addition, there is no record of how many such cases are made. The corrections fall into the category of expenditure rejected, which may include a whole series of corrections. Mr Ravyts, as regards question two, I can add that with regard to the 2019 tax year, about 90% of the total amount of declared payments of tax havens is based on a rather limited number of financial institutions. As far as question three is concerned, I would first of all like to point out that such a duty of declaration does not exist in any European country or even in the rest of the world. Belgium therefore has an exemplary role to play with the existing legislation. Although I can support the obligation, I am also convinced that the administrative burden on our companies should be kept to a minimum. Therefore, without any indication that a reduction in the ceiling would result in a significant reduction in tax evasion, it does not seem appropriate to take such a measure. Mr Bayet, I begin my answer by explaining the data transmission process. Information for 2018 is still in pre-investigation or investigation. No figures are yet available. The diamond sector is actually represented but covers less than 2% of the payments declared in euro in 2017. The financial sector covers most of the payments with more than 85% of the payments reported, and is followed by the energy sector. As a reminder, it should be noted that the payments mentioned are made on behalf of the reporting companies themselves. In addition, financial institutions are subject to anti-money laundering legislation in accordance with the Act of 18 September 2017. Mr Vanbesien, I can tell you that EUR 141.9 billion can be allocated to a total of EUR 172.2 billion. This means that the difference, approximately 18% of the total amount, cannot be attributed to a particular country. This inconvenience arises from the fact that certain data are not digitized or cannot be processed in a simple way. This makes the processing of these forms difficult. Taking all these elements into account, a complete digitisation of the data is desirable. You ask whether the State misses revenue as a result of transactions into tax havens. However, it should be stressed that many of these payments perfectly meet legitimate economic or financial needs. On the other hand, there are certainly structures set up to erode the taxable base and shift profits to countries where they are not or hardly taxed. Just in order to combat these forms of tax evasion, the obligation to report was created at the time. The administration has a wide range of statistics on a wide variety of subjects on which it also does not report automatically. Firstly, it is certainly possible to share statistical information, but that is not possible when such detailed information is requested that a particular taxable person becomes identifiable. Secondly, the selection of controls takes into account a whole range of parameters in order to determine whether or not a dossier should be included in its work plan according to the administration. This means that risk groups can be selected, where relevant, allowing efficient selection and handling of the dossiers concerned. The capacity of the Tax havens of the Anti-Fraud Coordination Department is unchanged. It cannot be argued that only four officials deal with this matter, since the Anti-Fraud Coordination Department deals only with preliminary investigations and the further progress of the cases is handled by other departments of the FPS Finance. Moreover, it is not the case that only the files selected by the Anti-Fraud Coordination Office are subject to scrutiny. Where an official finds an irregularity in payments to tax havens during any other tax control, it will be corrected. These amounts depend on the declarations made by the taxable persons. The difference can largely be explained by the amounts declared by the taxpayers in the financial sector. Mr Van Hees, the updating of article 179 of the Royal Decree implementing the 1992 Income Tax Code (IARC 92) depends on several factors. Firstly, such an update requires rigorous and continuous analysis by the tax administration, based in particular on the constant evolution of the legislation of all States. Secondly, it must be examined in an international context, in accordance with international law and by ensuring compliance with the preventive conventions of double taxation. Finally, the update of this list was initiated prior to the government's entry into day-to-day business, and then under special authority. The completion of this missed task will therefore be the responsibility of a future government. For these reasons, it is not for me to take a position, in this context, on how to deal with a particular State or to draw conclusions on any particularities of the tax system of those States, in the light of the criteria referred to in Article 307, § 1, 2e, of IARC 92, of which Article 179 of the Royal Decree constitutes enforcement. For the 2019 tax year, there are a total of 790 reporting companies. Total payments 275F amount to EUR 172.3 billion. However, it should be noted that not all payments can be broken down by destination of the tax haven. In this case, for the answer to this question, EUR 141.9 billion could be broken down by destination out of a total of EUR 172.2 billion. The amount of payments reported in 2019 to the United Arab Emirates is EUR 122.7 billion. Attention is drawn to the fact that about 85 per cent of payments to the United Arab Emirates relate to payments from the financial sector. The remaining 15 % relate to payments for the purchase of goods, but also to payments for royalties, management fees or repayments of loans. The Anti-Fraud Coordination Service does have an anti-tax haven unit. The purpose of this unit is to analyse the payments reported on Form 275F attached to the corporate tax return in order to verify whether these payments are made in real and sincere transactions and with persons other than artificial constructions. Since this is not an operational service, the cell works jointly with the ISI risk analysis services. The pre-analyses are then forwarded to the ISI or the AG Fisc operational services, which are requested to focus on the legitimacy review of payments. In this case, it is particularly examined whether the payments meet justified industrial or commercial considerations or, if they are at arm's length, they are made in transactions which are not artificial arrangements designed to avoid tax in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u21	Mr Bertels, when would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u22	Later!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation, which focused very much on the procedures. It is good that we are getting clarification on this as Members of Parliament. A large part of that payment traffic will originate in legitimate economic and financial needs, as you describe it. I have also taken note of the statements made by Professor Haelterman of KU Leuven. This tax expert has shed light on this and has been very nuanced about it. We will, of course, continue to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u24	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, even if you do not have some figures. I will therefore come back to the matter in the near future. You're doing everything you can, but I think we could go even further in the areas of transaction reporting, supervision of the banking sector, intermediaries, etc. Indeed, in the end, this situation is not fair. You're a Flemish liberal. I am a Walloon socialist. I honestly believe that you also do not know how to explain to the workers, the self-employed, the managers of Flemish SMEs how it is that so many people still manage to cheat and that the same people still have to pay the tax. It is our political responsibility to find solutions to this situation. I am counting on you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u25	Minister, I think everyone feels a little bit about their water that there are things here that are at least in a twilight zone. Belgium's real economic links with these countries are minimal, so there must be another reason for these financial transactions. Part of this can be explained by a mechanism of international economy, such as the creation of a cash pot by multinationals. But why do all these cash deposits have to be built in Turkmenistan? It must be very pleasant there for some reason. Maybe we should go on vacation to Turkmenistan. A proper control remains necessary, as well as the thorough unravelling of certain international structures. We are obliged to do so to all companies that pay their taxes correctly in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u26	Minister, you say that this government is in day-to-day business and now has special powers, so it is not up to you to take a position on the list of tax havens. I think you rarely bother taking a position when you want to do it. In my opinion, this is a deliberate choice on your part. I would say that there is a certain passivity, sometimes militant, towards this fight against tax havens. The fact that some of the world's most formidable tax havens, including European Union countries, are not on this Belgian list is a real problem. As far as payments to the United Arab Emirates are concerned, 122.7 billion payments are more than the average in previous years, that is enormous, and that corresponds to 100 times the amount of imports from the United Arab Emirates. This gap remains particularly problematic. This issue will need to be revisited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u27	Mr Minister, I apologize for my delay, but I had to vote in another committee meeting, in which our legislative proposal passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u29	As you know, Minister, we have put forward proposals to raise money. You can always endorse our proposals. It is about a lot of money, which will increase the sense of justice of many people in this country. This brings me to the two points of reply that I would like to make. Firstly, following on from many colleagues, as far as tax havens are concerned, we, as a government, must demonstrate that we are actively monitoring. We must show that we are actively acting and reacting and developing special actions. The reason for this is that I come to my second point, which is that we must maintain, politely formulated or increase the sense of fairness about taxes in our people. Belgians want to pay taxes when they know that everyone pays their fair share. These taxes can be used, for example, for stronger health care, if the Belgians know that everyone contributes according to their ability and that everyone does their part. That feeling is strongly undermined by titles in newspapers.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We must act very strongly on this as a government by ensuring that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u30	Mr Minister, yesterday I visited the airport, where an action was under way by the staff of Brussels Airlines. Employees from several companies such as Swissport, Aviapartner and Skytanking had come to express their solidarity. They had made a large banner, and that in five or six places at the airport, in consultation with the airport, hanged with the message: "Airport Workers, united we stand." This shows that the workers all feel in the same boat, that they are all very concerned about the situation at the airport. Every day I hear stories of worried people working there. Yesterday, a young woman working at Brussels Airlines spoke to me: "I have a temporary contract. People don't even talk about me, because I'm not in the numbers, and I don't even know what's gonna happen, but I'm gonna lose my job. It was my dream job. I worked there for two years. I've worked hard for it, but I probably won't stand a chance." Another employee, father of three children, told me how he was hospitalized with COVID-19 and had already been fired. Another employee, a 57-year-old woman, testified that she had worked with Sabena for more than twenty years and then with SN, but should now settle for a runway, even though she cannot live on such a low income. The workers are almost forced to take on a runway for a hunger wage. That is the situation for the workers at the airport. Twenty-four thousand workers at the airport are now concerned about their health, about their jobs, about their families, about their income. I know what I'm talking about. They're worried about their colleagues' jobs. So it's not just about Brussels Airlines, it's about much more. It's all about the airport and all the employees. If Brussels Airlines goes down, it is like a domino with severe consequences for all those who work at the airport. We must dare call a cat a cat. Brussels Airlines requested financial support. There is talk of 290 million to 400 million euros. We say: no tax money if it is used to throw employees out. We do not want the profits to go to the private sector and the losses to the government. We want the workers to keep their jobs. What is also felt as a knife in the back of the workers is today's statement in Lufthansa's press, after it has gathered EUR 9 billion from the governments of several countries, that there is a serious restructuring in prospect, with perhaps ten thousand employees losing their jobs. First society asks for public money everywhere and then thousands of people lose their jobs. Does the government choose such a policy? Or will the government use tax money to "ryanairize" the jobs at the airport? People do not want to work like Ryanair's employees; their working and wage conditions are important. The race to the bottom of Ryanair and its low-wage associates, poor statutes, temporary contracts, tax avoidance and subsidies cannot be won. Taking ownership of our national airport with a national airline must no longer be taboo and can offer a solution and a future for all employees at the airport. This will also provide a long-term, sustainable response to the environmental problem. How have the talks between Lufthansa and the Belgian State gone so far? Those calls will start again now. Has the Belgian Government requested employment guarantees and the maintenance of wages and working conditions? Do you, as Minister, also see opportunities to nationalise another part of the Belgian aviation sector? Even Mr Bouchez, the chairman of MR, has already dropped that idea. Is it really not normal for a large and strategically important company such as the airport operator, in which the government has only a minority stake, to return to public ownership? The Brussels Airport CEO recently stated in the Seventh Day that he will not pay out the dividends of 97 million. What will happen to those dividends? Would it not be a good idea to use these dividends as a bridge for workers in technical unemployment who are still losing 30 to 40% of their income?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u31	In the meantime, Minister, it is clear that Brussels Airlines will be flying again from 15 June. In the meantime, we also know that a loss of EUR 93 million was made in the first quarter, which is a doubling compared to last year. Lufthansa in general expects a very slow recovery in air traffic in the coming years and predicts that despite everything, a lot of aircraft will remain on the ground. The cutting of fixed costs is a necessity, Lufthansa says, in order to achieve an increasing cash flow and to be able to pay off the loans. The impact on Brussels Airlines remains to be seen. There's not much clarity on that yet. Minister, you know that in the plenary session of a few weeks ago we made a very strong plea for steel-hard guarantees for Brussels Airlines. At that time it was already clear that there would be a contraction of 25% to 30% of Brussels Airlines. We then expressed our hope that you and Mr Spohr would get on the right track and that Brussels Airlines could become a modern, performing organisation in the coming period. There are still a lot of conversations with Brussels Airlines at the moment. Not that much is known about that. We often hear about the outcome of talks with Germany, among others. Minister, what atmosphere has this consultation been in over the past few weeks? What agreements have been made so far? What are the next steps? What guarantees can Lufthansa provide for the maintenance of employment and for the reform of Brussels Airlines towards a modern and more efficient business with a future perspective? Finally, not insignificantly, what ultimate formulas does the government see for the rescue of Brussels Airlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u32	Question No 55006165C by Mr Bert Wollants was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u33	Mr President, I hope that I will have as much time for my question as your party colleague. Mr Minister, I will be brief, because I am in parallel with the Defence Committee on the masks, another major challenge for this federal government. You are very concerned about the Brussels Airlines file. I am very interested in that dossier. We had a debate on this two or three weeks ago in plenary, and I called on you to stand up for aviation and the airport community. I understand you're in the middle of the negotiations. My question to you is what you can say about the negotiations. What is the latest state of affairs regarding the rescue of Brussels Airlines? How are the negotiations going? I understand that it is in Germany that Brussels Airlines had said that the money had until 20 May, but now it's going to fly from 15 June, so apparently there's still a little stretch on that. What's the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u34	Mr President, Minister, when we debated this in plenary on 14 May, you were given a Chamber-wide support to negotiate with Lufthansa because everyone is aware that every job at Brussels Airlines has three or four other jobs. It is important that we can offer a perspective to the company and to the employees of Brussels Airlines, but also to other companies and employees at the airport. In the meantime, we are two weeks away and a lot has already happened. A deal has been made between Lufthansa and the German Government in Berlin, with an aid package of EUR 9 billion in exchange for 20% shares and additional 5% through convertible loans. Today, dramatic quarterly figures have been published. Lufthansa lost 2 billion euros in the first quarter and Brussels Airlines 93 million euros and the second quarter may be even worse. A press release has also been sent by Lufthansa, announcing that the restructuring programme will be intensified. That is, of course, management language to say that there will have to be very heavy savings. That's a third fact. Since two weeks ago, behind the scenes, there has been strong negotiations at the Brussels Airlines workplace between management and staff. I understand that the staff are prepared to make heavy efforts and that negotiations are taking place with the knife on the throat, that very heavy demands are being placed on the table. In the plenary of two weeks ago, you said that you were going to the negotiations 'in view of hard commitments to achieve profitable growth that is ecologically sound'. In your opinion, that was the only way to give perspective to the thousands of employees. I have the following questions. What conditions have you provided for the granting of State aid to Brussels Airlines? "A profitable company with financial and ecological sustainability," what exactly does that mean for you? How will you ensure that these conditions are at the heart of the negotiations? To what extent have the developments in the negotiations between Lufthansa and the German Government affected the Brussels Airlines file and the government's attitude? Do you remain in line with the need to be able to acquire shares in the company in return for aid, or are there other proposals on the table? My final question concerns an element that has not yet been addressed today. What role can Brussels Airport play in creating future prospects for Brussels Airlines? After all, Brussels Airlines is the main customer of Brussels Airport and accounts for 40% of the traffic. At Frankfurt Airport, Lufthansa's headquarters are considered. At Schiphol Airport everything is KLM-blue and in Paris the same applies to Air France, but at Brussels Airport this is much less the case. Brussels Airlines is much less present there. These are, for example, efforts that could be made by Brussels Airport. Do you see a role for Brussels Airport in this? Did the federal government ask Brussels Airport for this? Last week in De Tijd, we heard from the CEO that that question has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u35	Minister, after what has already been said, I will be brief. The German government has granted aid of 9 billion to Lufthansa, the parent company of Brussels Airlines. The German state thus becomes the first shareholder of the group with 20% of the capital. On the other hand, Brussels Airlines has announced the elimination of a thousand jobs and the company's staff is in a state of turmoil. Minister, can you tell us to what extent this decision by the German Government will have an impact on the current negotiations between the Belgian Government and Brussels Airlines? Can you confirm the figures of 300 to 400 million Belgian aid to Brussels airlines? Will Belgium's possible aid to Brussels Airlines be conditional on an acquisition of a stake in the company's capital? What would be the impact of this possible aid on employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u36	Merci pour toutes les questions. Since we are still in full negotiation, you will understand that I must show great discretion. However, it is also logical for me to inform Parliament about the progress that is being made. I do not need to convince anyone about the importance of Brussels Airlines and its role in the airport community. It concerns 26 000 direct and 40 000 indirect jobs. If a so-called hub carrier were to disappear or its capacity would be severely reduced, it would have a huge impact on the entire airport community. This represents many jobs, but is also indirectly very important economically in our country. If we want to be a hub, as Brussels is politically speaking, we need to be reachable. Many other sectors, such as the pharmaceutical sector but also the many SMEs, are heavily dependent on a performing airport. It is also important to have a certain cargo activity. This is not only through cargo companies, but also very important for Brussels Airlines. Social consultation is in progress. The Renault Act is in place. My colleague Muylle is following this process. Both of us have always said that it is our practice to avoid as many naked layoffs as possible. The numbers circulating there are not in the order of 1,000 people, which is mentioned earlier, but a lot less. But that hasn't been fully cleared up yet. This concerns negotiations between Brussels Airlines and the social partners. It is normal that we ensure that the deadlines here are respected, as well as the need for information. There was a meeting between Mr Spohr, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment earlier this month. Since then, there have been several contacts with Lufthansa. But until a few days ago, these contacts were rather rare because the negotiation between Lufthansa and the Flemish government was in its final phase. In the end, that is very important to us. I cannot imagine that we would make an agreement with Brussels Airlines without knowing that the mother house will also be saved, as that would be very risky. For its part, the Swiss authorities also stated that Lufthansa had to be rescued. Our reasoning remains that this is a German company, with a very important activity in our country. It is logical that the parent company will do its part of the effort. The negotiations have taken a long time for various reasons, I understand. One of these reasons is the not so obvious discussion with the European Commission. The European Commission has outlined a framework within which the rescue of an air carrier is possible, but at the same time the Commission wants to ensure that the internal market and, for example, state aid rules are respected, which is a logical approach. The agreement with Germany will go through the Management Board to the General Assembly on 26 June. Since that was established, we can see that more attention is being paid to the negotiations with Brussels Airlines. What are the important elements for us? It's the job naturally – we talked about it. But the employment perspective is linked to the overall perspective of society. I think everyone understands that there will be a reduction in activity in the short term. In fact, we see that everywhere in the air sector, it is linked to the circumstances in which we find ourselves. The whole question is what is the outlook for the future and for growth for the future. We understand that in the long run it must become a profitable company – that's normal. If, in the long term, air carrier cannot become sufficiently profitable, it can never be a sustainable activity. In our view, different elements are required for society to become profitable, including investment and growth. Freely translated, one cannot continue to poach a stone. One can reduce costs, but at some point it does not offer a prospect of becoming profitable. There must therefore be a business plan that provides a certain perspective for further development of the activity in Brussels, with sustainable profitability and the related sustainability of the activity. That is a crucial element for us. Some asked what would be the way to do it, if we were to intervene. I think that if we were to intervene, the instrument itself would not be the crucial element. The crucial element would be to determine what follow-up mechanisms we have on the Belgian side to ensure that a possible business plan is actually carried out. What is essential for us is the following: how can we ensure that the development of the airline is properly implemented after the reduction and that the funds we would make available are used only for a Belgian activity and not for activities abroad? In my view, it is also logical that the costs of restructuring should be borne by the airline and its mother house and that these should not be borne by the public authorities. Our perspective is the survival of society and its redevelopment. I'll give you one last element. There has also been talk of Brussels Airport. In my view, that is a discussion between two private companies: Brussels Airlines is a completely private company and Brussels Airport is a private company. It is correct that we are shareholders of Brussels Airport, but we are actually talking about a purely commercial agreement. I understand the question of Brussels Airport's biggest customer to talk to Brussels Airport about his problem. I assume those conversations are taking place, but I don't think I should be taking part in those conversations. However, I have the impression that everyone understands that logic. If an airport lost its biggest customer, I wonder whose advantage that would eventually be. Are we close to an agreement today? That is difficult to predict, but the intensity of the negotiations has been much higher for a few days now, which is a good thing. We need to be able to give the employees of Brussels Airlines, but also to everyone around them, as soon as possible. The uncertainty has lasted a long time. There is a great deal of understanding on the trade union side, because these are very difficult times for the employees of Brussels Airlines, who have shown a great deal of understanding for the negotiations. However, the question of clarity is absolutely justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u37	Mr President, Minister, you first made a very strong plea about the importance of the airport. However, when I see how you will deal with it, I fear that there will not be a sustainable and long-term solution for the airport, but rather an industrialisation of the airport, by increasing competition. You also did not answer my question about Brussels Airport and the dividends that could be used for employees. I'd like to make another suggestion. We may be able to choose between Lufthansa's policy and the policy of Turkish Airlines. I have read that a memorandum has been signed there to ensure that no job is lost in the air carrier, because they have received an intervention from the government. That might be a good solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I note that there is little news at the moment. We are not much further away from a few weeks when the debate was held in plenary. The necessary business plan is not really on the table. I find it odd that Brussels Airlines has been screaming murder and fire over the past few years that the money would be up by the end of May, that it would not get any further. I think that's weird. Indeed, there is little perspective today. The uncertainty remains, especially for the employees. In any case, the negotiations will have to be conducted with caution. Brussels Airlines is indeed a company that has consistently made losses. There will have to be a change in the future. Don't let him roll you again. Brussels Airlines was sold for a prick a few years ago. Make sure that the Belgian State is not put back in the bag this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u39	Mr President, it is heartfelt that you would like to see me, but then you will have to wait until tomorrow. Then we can meet physically. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I've been given confidence-building answers. I think there's definitely a deal we can and should come up with. That's very important. You have underlined this importance for which you have thanked me. I think it is extremely important for our province of Flemish Brabant, for the whole of Flanders, for the whole of Belgium, for our diplomatic function and for our business life that you make a good deal here. That framework seems relatively good to me. However, we must ensure that we go for a sustainable journey that can lead to a profitable business once again. We certainly have to think about the people. There must be room for social aspects. Brussels Airport also needs to be looked at. Those are elements I like to hear. I wish you every success in your discretion. I hope there's no champagne on the deal that's going to be made. I do not think that is wise, Mr Daems. This can hopefully be completed in all modesty over the next few days and weeks. That would be a good thing for the aviation community. I'm sure you have their support, too. It is also important that this happens with a loan and not with a participation. This will become clear in the coming days. I wish you success on behalf of the N-VA Group, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I fully understand the discretion that needs to be shown, but you have made a number of important statements. I think it is very good that you have drawn attention once again to how many jobs are involved. Indeed, it is not only about the jobs at Brussels Airlines and at the airport, but also about the many indirect jobs in the companies and the hub that connects us to the world. If the preservation of jobs and the prospect of new jobs in a growth scenario is one of the main arguments for the government to intervene with taxpayers' money, then I also expect proper protection of the workers who need to make growth possible in the future. It's obvious that this is connected to the deal you're hoping to close. I think it is important that you have said that one cannot get rid of the skin. Many workers at the airport have indeed been poached several times. Once again, they are being called upon to make an important effort. I believe that the balance should also be monitored there. You have not spoken specifically about the way in which any aid translates into equity or similar. If tax money goes to a company, we count on it to have a proper return on it and clear legal arrangements that protect the interests of the State as shareholder/debtor vis-à-vis a private shareholder. You were a little too careful in your statement about Brussels Airport and its purely commercial relationship. We are all shareholders of Brussels Airport, the airport that is so important to us. However, a signal should be given that we need to look at what can be done to the maximum possible extent by Brussels Airport in order to help ensure a sustainable future for Brussels Airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that all this must be done in great discretion. I also understand the difficulty that is yours. Indeed, before we can actually intervene with Brussels Airlines, we need to know where Lufthansa is in the negotiations with the German government. The good news is the number of layoffs. It's about less than a thousand – a figure that the press had announced. You also stressed that there would be as little dry layoffs as possible, which is also extremely important. As you have pointed out, if the Belgian Government takes part, it will obviously be necessary for monitoring and control to be ensured so that all the means made available benefit Brussels Airlines and not the parent company, as we have been able to experience in the past. In addition, you stressed the importance of assessing growth prospects. Indeed, profitability is necessary for Brussels Airlines to continue its operations validly and sustainably in the future. I did not receive an answer to my question on the figures. The press reported between 300 and 400 million. I assume that this is a matter of the necessary discretion in negotiations. I will therefore be waiting to know a little more about this by reading the press over the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u42	Mr President, Minister, apart from the specific negotiations on Brussels Airlines, we must also bear in mind that aviation worldwide may still face difficulties for a long time in general. Nor is it impossible that aviation as a whole will not be the same in the future. I do not mean necessarily that it will be worse, but that it might be different. When it comes to conditions negotiated either with Brussels Airlines or Lufthansa on employment and sustainability, Lufthansa and its subsidiaries are not the only airlines in Europe with these problems. On the contrary, they all have the same problems. That is why it is perhaps the right time to have a thorough discussion at European level on how we see sustainable aviation in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u43	Minister, the press reported on discriminatory practices at BNP Paribas Fortis. Under the anti-money laundering law, certain populations, such as Congolese people born in the 1970s and 1980s and who end up with an X in the "first name" box, are systematically refused and are deprived of a basic banking service. No other Belgian bank applies this systematic refusal. Febelfin also confirms that "the failure to have a full name or date of birth is not in itself a reason to refuse a customer". BNP Paribas Fortis invokes the anti-money laundering law, but European Directive 2014/92/EU, transposed into Belgian law via the Code of Economic Law, stipulates that everyone has the right to basic banking services, regardless of their situation. You have already answered questions in this regard, in a very general way, quoting the applicable legislation to conclude that it is possible "to apply simplified or increased vigilance measures as long as the information so obtained is sufficient to be able to differentiate the person concerned from any other person with sufficient certainty." This answer is very general, but I would remind you that it is not a bank in general, but a banking group whose Belgian state is the first shareholder. As a political leader of the Belgian state, the first shareholder of BNP Paribas Fortis, do you intend to question the management of the bank on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u44	Mr Van Hees, I was as surprised as you were when you heard this news. Since this is the application of the anti-money laundering law, I sent a letter to the National Bank of Belgium on 12 December 2019. As you know, the National Bank of Belgium is the supervisor of financial institutions with regard to the anti-money laundering law. In its reply of 20 December 2019, the National Bank assures me that this information is taken into account in the bank's supervisory actions to ensure that financial institutions properly apply the law of 18 September 2017 on combating money laundering and terrorist financing and limiting the use of cash, particularly in terms of customer acceptance. The National Bank also provided me with the following official response from BNP Paribas Fortis. All banks have a legal obligation to identify. The law explicitly provides for identification by surname, first name, date and place of birth, the address being a fifth optional element. Each bank will request additional information if one or more of these four items are missing on the ID card. BNP Paribas Fortis procedures require additional documentation to properly identify the person with at least four elements. This is the name, first name, place and date of birth. BNP Paribas Fortis applies this legal obligation to any relationship with the customer. BNP Paribas Fortis does not look at the origins. This is why the bank also accepts official documents delivered by another country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u45	Thank you, Minister. If I understand your answer correctly, you justify BNP Paribas Fortis' policy by saying that these are missing identification elements. But the other Belgian banks do not apply this policy, as I said in my question. There is therefore no such discrimination. As a shareholder of this bank, the Belgian State should intervene, not only by asking the National Bank to verify what is happening, but also as a shareholder to hold the bank to account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u46	Question No 55003169C by Mr. De Roover is transformed into a written question. As Mr Cogolati and Mr Buyst were absent, their respective questions Nos. 55003239C and 55003502C were lapsed. Mr. De Vuyst applied his question no.55003444C. Mr Mathei, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u47	Mr Minister, since 1 January 2019 it is possible to rent with VAT, and in this way to recover the VAT from the construction under certain conditions. In the past, we had similar structures, such as the provision of certain areas with VAT, where, if a registration were to be made, a fixed fee of 50 euro would be due. Recently it appeared that the administration will return to that. There is now concern that the same will happen in the case of leases subject to VAT. There is a fear that this will not be subject to the fixed fee of EUR 50 but to 0.2 % registration fees. That's why I have the following questions for you. Do you agree that double taxation on the same income should be avoided, and that the optional system should allow rental contracts to be registered with a fixed right instead of with 0.2 % registration fees? In the affirmative, shouldn't that be extradited into the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u48	Mr Matheï, the law of 14 October 2018 has indeed made it possible, since 1 January last year, to tax the rental of a property subject to certain conditions. In addition to the exemption from the proportional duty for real estate financing lease contracts, the Code of Registration of Mortgage and Registry Rights currently does not provide for any other exemption from the proportional registration duty. Therefore, no exemption from proportional registration fees can currently be granted for the rental of a building or part of a building used by the tenant exclusively for the economic activities which confer on him the status of a taxable person, since the landlord and the tenant act jointly to tax that rental. Such a general exemption can only be introduced through an adaptation of the Code of Registration of Mortgage and Registry Rights, taking into account, inter alia, the budgetary impact of such a measure. I would also like to point out that there is no double taxation here. The non bis in idem tax principle means that the same tax cannot tax the same fact twice between the same parties. That is certainly not the case here. Being liable for a direct tax never prevents the liability of an indirect tax. The same applies to the combination of VAT and registration duties. Consequently, the levying of registration duties and VAT on the same legal act does not constitute a double taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u49	Thank you for that clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u50	Minister, interest on savings accounts is exempt for an amount of EUR 990 per person. Above, there is a withholding tax of 15%. This also applies to foreign savings books, provided that a number of criteria were met, such as the basic interest rate and the loyalty premium. In a judgment of the Antwerp appeal court, the Belgian State was condemned for refusing to grant the exemption for foreign savings books. Minister, can you clarify the government's position? Was the approach of the FPS Finance changed following the ruling of the appeal court? Will that judgment be appealed against, or has it already been?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u51	In order to benefit from the exemption from withholding tax on income from a foreign savings account, two conditions must be met simultaneously. The foreign savings account must be regulated and the requirements of the foreign savings account must be analogous to the requirements of Article 2 of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code 1992. If the first condition is not met, the abovementioned analogy shall not be examined. The issue raised is addressed in the circular of 21 February 2020 on the exemption of income from regulated savings deposits received by credit institutions established abroad. The possibility of appeal against the judgment of the Antwerp Appeal Court of 21 January 2020 is currently under investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u52	Question No 55003605C by Mrs Matz is transformed into a written question. Question No 55003659C by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u53	Mr President, Minister, the tax administration is trying to recover the amounts paid for legal aid, even when the defendant is still under the conditions to receive legal aid from the legal aid office. In a recent December 2019 file, the administration collected a tax refund on natural persons. When asked by mail about the right of access to justice, the administration simply answers – I quote – "It can be considered that the taxpayer has returned to a better fortune if he is to receive a refund of 1771 euros and that he is only taken 198.15 euros, it does not seem to me abused". The tax administration is abusing its position for two reasons: on the one hand, the reimbursement of the tax on natural persons is taken into account in the calculation of the means of subsistence to determine the granting of legal aid; on the other hand, a person receiving legal aid inevitably lives below the poverty line. This was confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 21 June 2018, which reiterates the signal that access to justice is not being undermined. In particular, the Court had held – and I quote – that: "As regards aid to persons who do not have the means to pay the costs of their defence in court themselves, it is contradictory to charge the same persons a financial contribution with the aim of making them participate in the financing of this aid." The most regrettable thing, Minister, is that, in the face of this abuse of the tax administration, few people will have the resources to defend themselves. For these reasons, Minister, I ask you to clarify the situation for all. Can you confirm that as long as a person remains in the conditions for legal aid, no recovery can take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u54	Mr President, debts relating to legal aid may be recovered from the beneficiary if it has been found that his assets, means of livelihood or charges have been changed since the decision to grant legal aid and he is therefore now in a position to secure payment. The tax administration does not know the specific financial situation of the recipient at the time legal aid is granted by the FPS Justice. The reason why the administration should use a factual presumption of a return to a better fortune. The administration considers, under certain conditions, that the right to a refund of taxes is an indication that the beneficiary is now in a position to secure payment of his debt in respect of legal aid, but not without being informed of the possibility of refuting a presumption of a return to a better fortune resulting from the right to reimbursement. In practice, the debtor is directly informed of the existence of a legal aid debt by an appropriate payment notice in which it is clearly stated under what conditions the debt will become payable. Second, where there is an imputation of a repayment to clear the debt, the debtor also receives a specific opinion informing him of the possibilities to oppose this imputation by demonstrating that his financial situation has not improved. In this way, the administration is responsible for the recovery of debts owed by debtors who are able to secure payment of such debts, while respecting their right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u55	Thank you, minister, but I'm a little sorry about your answer. First, you answer more or less the elements already present in my question. You're talking about this presumption of a return to a better fortune. You add that the person in question must demonstrate the opposite, so the absence of a return to a better fortune. The administration is therefore based on a presumption and the burden of proof lies with the court. From the moment a person is in legal aid, it is rare for him or her to have the means, including a tax refund. I find this kind of procedure unwarranted, minister. This makes the situation even more complicated for people who are in often precarious situations and who are confronted with justice, and therefore, now, with the tax in addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u56	Minister, my questions are about VAT on aesthetic interventions. The first concerns the VAT check on aesthetic interventions or treatments. As you know, an aesthetic procedure can be considered medical care if it has therapeutic purposes. When an aesthetic procedure is not considered a medical treatment, it has been subject to VAT since 1 October 2019. As far as monitoring is concerned, we note that the Court of Justice considers that the assessment of whether a medical procedure is a treatment for therapeutic purposes or not should be established by qualified staff. Of course, the patient is not authorized to decide for himself. However, I have a number of questions here, Minister. It is intended that inspectors from your administration will carry out those checks and that the identity of the patient, in order to protect medical confidentiality, will remain hidden. Is it then intended that the tax inspectors themselves should carry out the medical assessment of whether or not an aesthetic procedure or treatment is therapeutic? Is a VAT check by a non-medically formed tax inspector not contrary to the wording of the Court of Justice with regard to the medical findings to be made by qualified staff? Does the FPS Finances employ tax inspectors with these required professional qualifications? If an inspector writes in a report that the procedure or treatment is of a non-medical nature and the VAT must be paid, does his word or the word of the treating doctor or dentist prime in any dispute? That brings me to my second question. Is it intended to seek a parallel between the VAT levy and any reimbursement by the RIZIV of aesthetic interventions or treatments included in the RIZIV nomenclature? In other words, if treatment is not considered medical care, should VAT be paid, but will the RIZIV still intervene in the reimbursement of this treatment? What agreements have been made between your administration and the RIZIV in order to achieve the same outcome regarding the medical nature of the procedure or treatment? Finally, should circumcision of a boy for purely religious reasons be regarded as non-medical care for lack of therapeutic purposes? Should VAT be paid on this? For example, is the restoration of a hymen, which is often carried out simply because of cultural pressure or for religious reasons, a non-medical care? Should this be subject to VAT? Same for pregnancy termination not carried out for medical reasons, neither for the woman nor for the fetus, and which is not ticked as medical care for lack of therapeutic purposes. Does VAT have to be paid on this? Is the execution of a hair implant in balding men a non-medical care for lack of therapeutic purposes and therefore subject to VAT?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, as far as your first question is concerned, there is absolutely no intention for tax officials to assess whether or not a particular medical procedure is aesthetic and therefore whether or not it is exempt from VAT. I do not want to anticipate the necessary amendment of those exemption provisions in the VAT Lawbook, but the judgment of the Constitutional Court shows that aesthetic interventions can only benefit from exemption if they are therapeutic in nature. Where the exemption from VAT is claimed for such transactions, the treating physician must, in all conscience, determine the therapeutic purpose of the procedure or treatment and the treating physician shall be liable for VAT. Finally, I would like to stress that, in the event of a dispute, the treating physician can use all the means of defence available to taxable persons, from an administrative objection to legal proceedings. Regarding your second question, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 5 December 2019 has destroyed the provisions of the VAT Lawbook concerning the exemption from medical care under many aspects. On 16 May the Council of Ministers decided to submit a preliminary draft amending the relevant provisions in order to respond to the criticisms of the Constitutional Court to the opinion of the Council of State. The concepts used in the context of the exemption from the VAT Medical Care Act refer back to the European VAT Directive. They should therefore be interpreted strictly, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. To some extent, there will undoubtedly be a parallel between these concepts and the services eligible for reimbursement through the RIZIV. However, as can also be seen from the grounds of the Constitutional Court's annulment judgment, such reimbursement should not be the sole criterion for the application of the VAT exemption. As regards the financial compensation for operations or treatments outside the scope of the exemption, I would refer you to my colleague, the Minister for Health, who is responsible for this. The assessment of whether a medical action is such that it is eligible for exemption is a delicate balancing exercise. In particular, that assessment should ensure that the patient's rights and the medical professional secrecy of the healthcare providers concerned are respected. As a starting point, the approach adopted to date on the basis of the administrative circular relating to the existing exemption will continue. In any event, the FPS Finance is conducting further consultations with other administrative actors to see if improvements can be made in this area. As far as your third question is concerned, the Constitutional Court has recently ruled that the medical exemptions included in the provisions of the VAT Lawbook are being applied too widely. As already mentioned, the judgment of the Constitutional Court shows that interventions and treatment are exempt only in so far as they have a therapeutic purpose. Under the judgment, interventions or treatments for cultural and religious reasons, other than those having a therapeutic purpose, are excluded from the exemption. The treating physician thus determines the therapeutic purpose of the procedure or treatment. However, it is up to the legislator to adapt the article in question. However, pending an amendment to the said exemption provision, the professionals concerned may still rely on the current legal provision. This means that if a doctor carries out a purely aesthetic procedure during the transitional period, the procedure may be exempted if the procedure is included in the RIZIV nomenclature and is eligible for reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, it's a little double. On the one hand, I am very reassured that it is ultimately the doctor who decides whether or not an operation is medically necessary, but you also know that pressure can be exerted on the doctor to make a certain decision. That is not always obvious, especially when the patient is not financially so easy. On the other hand, it is very special, especially in times when public health funding is under very heavy pressure and when we will have to seek a new harmony, that certain interventions that are not considered to be therapeutically necessary would have to be reimbursed by the RIZIV and the patient would have to pay VAT on them. That is a very difficult exercise, but it will have to be done. In other words, if we look at the reimbursement of certain interventions, we will have to be very consistent in terms of VAT. Finally, you mentioned legislative initiatives. A legislative proposal on this subject will be considered tomorrow with the aim of not repaying certain interventions. I therefore invite you to take this with you as far as VAT is concerned. Mr. Secretary, I have one last observation. You said that doctors and dentists would also consider the possibility of improvements in the application of VAT. I invite you to definitely consult with the target groups. Indeed, it appears that it is very difficult in the field to subject certain treatments, especially in dentistry which are divided into aesthetic and non-aesthetic, to VAT legislation. That might be another point to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u59	Minister, almost 20% of municipal revenue comes from the additional personal tax (IPP), which is therefore a significant part of their budget. Beyond the unfairness of certain measures of the tax shift – such as the increase in indirect taxes, VAT on electricity or excise duty on diesel – and the introduction of other provisions to avoid the state's budgetary slippage, its impact on the finances of our local authorities is indisputable. And because: for Walloon municipalities alone, its estimated cost for next year would amount to almost 107 million euros. This is obviously not the only financial difficulty our local authorities face. In addition to this impact, there are several issues, such as the financing of relief zones, compliance with the accounting constraints imposed by the ESA 2010 standards, and the financing of the pension of local statutory agents – which is the responsibility of the federal government. This long list is complemented by measures taken by municipalities to respond to the VOCID-19 epidemic. I am thinking of the massive purchase of masks and filters, since the government has not been able to deliver a copy to every citizen – at least for the moment. In addition, measures had to be taken by the municipalities to boost local businesses through suspensions, exemptions or tax reductions. It is our municipalities that provide 50 per cent of the investment effort of the public authorities. Their good or poor financial health therefore greatly affects the daily lives of our fellow citizens. In short, in the face of such reductions in resources, they are faced with a corneal dilemma: either tax more or spend less. Minister, what kind of dialogue do you have with local authorities on this subject because of the tax shift and the pandemic? Would it not be appropriate to provide for compensation measures in order not to undermine their investment capacity or even their viability? The previous government claimed that the return effects of the tax shift would compensate for this dry loss for the municipalities. What about it? Do you have any figures showing that the losses related to this device have actually been compensated in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u60	Mr Bayet, among the measures of the tax shift falling within my competence, those which – in the power of purchasing – concern the IPP have an impact on the communal finances by reducing the basis of the additional communal ones. The municipalities were regularly informed of the budgetary consequences. This impact can be located within a more general framework, which is that of communal and regional autonomy in the choice of fiscal policies. The government has opted for a reduction in the burden on labour, to boost the purchasing power of our citizens and to support the competitiveness of our businesses. This legitimate decision has led to a significant reduction in the burden on work, thereby promoting employment and therefore increasing the tax base of the municipalities. There is no provision for compensation, since the financing of municipalities is no longer a federal responsibility and the municipalities have the means, within the framework of their broad fiscal autonomy, to take measures to maintain the overall level of their revenues if they so wish and if necessary. The employment rate has increased, resulting in a broader tax base. The return effects were assessed ex ante by both the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank. As they improve employment, and as a result the tax base, these returns also benefit the municipalities. Micro-data are not available in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u61	Minister, thank you. Your answer remains ideological since you say that there will certainly be feedback effects and that if the taxable base is wider... but you have no numbers to demonstrate it. Your precision as to the choice of each tax policy may be true, but making others pay what they are not able to take on themselves is not, in my opinion, a good policy. This is what you have done in the context of the communes because, according to my information, all the communes lose overall and have not yet had compensatory returns, which is really very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u62	Minister, my questions are pre-VOCID-19, but they are still topical, even if they are no longer hot news. Each year, the FPS Finance organised tax breaks in May and June in the administrative offices of the entity of La Louvière. FPS Finance officials occupied communal premises to receive citizens to help them complete their tax returns. But on February 7, 2020, the Citizenship Department of the city of La Louvière was informed that, given the number of returns received in 2019 – some 20 for each location – and the increasing number of automated simplified declarations, the FPS Finance decided not to organize any more permanences in local offices this year. While the FPS Finances has already taken the decision to close open access to the FPS Finances office in La Louvière, this is a new element that keeps citizens further away from the administration, which is of concern to us. It's just outrageous. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. How do you justify this decision to remove these tax permanences, apart from the phenomenon of VOCID-19? Why is this gap between the citizen and the administration ever widening, especially in the Central Region? What alternative do you propose to citizens who need these permanences to get help?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u63	This issue should have been included in the topical debate we have had on this subject. But there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u64	Minister, I'm sorry, I followed the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u65	It's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u66	I have another question, but it comes later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u67	We will try to deal with as many issues as possible. Last year, we received very few visitors at these sessions. The session of Houdeng received 19, that of Strépy 21, that of Saint-Vaast 15, and that of Haine-Saint-Pierre 21. Given the proximity of our offices located in La Louvière, it has been decided not to hold any more meetings in these local branches this year. The La Louvière office remains accessible to taxpayers except for requests for a copy of a warning-extract, which must now be done only by telephone, as in all of our offices. As for your second question, the "Individual" administration continues to offer a comprehensive service face to face, both in our offices and in the municipalities. In 2019, my administration organized 1,191 sessions in 495 different communes, compared to 1,304 sessions in 477 communes in 2018. As a result, the number of sessions in 2019 is somewhat lower than in 2018. On the other hand, the number of participating municipalities has increased slightly. The number of taxpayers attending tax-on-web sessions has declined sharply in recent years. Indeed, this number was still slightly above 1,070,000 taxpayers in 2013. In view of this reduction in demand of the order of 40%, it is therefore logical that my administration should adapt its offer of services accordingly. As mentioned above, citizens who wish to be helped by our agents to complete their tax returns today have the opportunity to attend the sessions to be held in our offices in La Louvière or other participating municipalities, nevertheless taking into account the specific temporary provisions related to the crisis of the coronavirus. We are no longer in a position to arrange face-to-face meetings and have developed a system whereby the 2,000 FPS Finance officials can provide telephone assistance to taxpayers who have to complete their tax returns. As many as 125,000 statements have already been completed in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u68	Minister, thank you. I have indeed been disturbed by figures that I have not heard correctly, so I will read your answer carefully, but it must be acknowledged that the current context is special. For us, it is essential to avoid the widening gap between people who have access to digital and computer technologies and those who are totally cut off from the world or who, for various reasons, cannot move or complete their statements by telephone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u69	Ms. Zanchetta asked to ask her question about La Louvière's FPS Finance, but Mr. Bertels is supposed to ask her question before her. Mr Bertels, do you mind if Mrs Zanchetta asks her question before you? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u70	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that soon, the majority of the services currently available on the FPS Finances de La Louvière website will no longer be accessible. It will only be possible to be received by appointment, provided you have a collection number. For all other services, it will be necessary, either to refer to the MyMinfin website, to call or send a mail, or to go to one of the nearest infocenters, namely Mons or Charleroi. I will not go back to the elements of my previous question. I come to my questions. How do you justify this decision to remove access to La Louvière's office when demand is so strong, as we see on the ground? Why not open an infocenter in La Louvière? How do you intend to respond to the demand of all those people who need the help of the FPS Finances, but who are unable to read or write, who do not own or who do not know how to use a computer, or who cannot move around? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u71	Madam, in 2017, the FPS Finance implemented 11 infocenters where general tax, collection and collection administrations, and heritage documentation are available. In this way, citizens can contact an infocenter, which means that there is no longer a need to be transferred from one office to another. In these infocenters, citizens can obtain information, request services and obtain services. In most cases, there is no territorial limitation. Citizens can go to any infocenter with their request for information, taking into account the language legislation of the place. The General Administration of Taxation and the General Administration of Collection and Collection are present in the offices of La Louvière. Citizens can therefore always go there to ask questions about some of these issues, however, given the specific provisions related to the coronavirus crisis. The FPS Finance is currently exploring the possibility of expanding these infocenters. There are already two infocenters in Hainaut: Mons is located 22 km from La Louvière and Charleroi at 28 km. The FPS Finance adapts its services as much as possible to the needs of the different target groups. For efficiency reasons, FPS Finance prefers to provide self-service services and, in a second phase, by telephone. Citizens can also contact us by e-mail or letter, or make an appointment in the infocenters. In addition, persons in need of assistance for a variety of reasons can always contact the La Louvière office for certain questions relating to taxation and recovery. It is true that citizens can no longer obtain a copy of their statement of purpose in their office, but they can request it online or by telephone. They will receive it by post, so they don't even have to move around. In addition, as FPS Finance, we make optimal use of the information we have or other government institutions in order not to have to rely on the citizen himself each time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u72	Minister, thank you for that answer. I hope to be able to reassure the people who go to La Louvière because, if I hear correctly, they will be able to continue to do so. I stress once again the usefulness of this service because, when you have easy access to digital technology or you can move easily, you can't get into the skin of a person who doesn't know how to read or write – and that happens much more often than you think – or who has great difficulty moving. I hope that in the future, centres such as La Louvière will be able to continue to welcome the public, even if at the grassroots level this is not their primary objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u73	Mr President, I see that there is a great deal of assistance and I must leave you at 6.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u74	Minister, we should think about coming more often because you see that the list of questions is still long.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u75	Minister, a concern that lives with many of our fellow countrymen is about the contactless payment with the bank card. Contactless payment with the bank card is becoming more and more established. Especially during the corona crisis, it has become more established for hygienic reasons. It was recommended and sometimes even mandatory in certain cases. Most banks limit the amount to be paid to 50 euros. When I submitted the question, that was 25 or 30 euros. Contactless payment means keeping your card close to a compatible terminal. However, it can also be the other way around. One can also keep a portable mobile terminal, which is freely available on the internet, close to the bank card that is in the back pocket or handbag. A contactless payment should not be confirmed. So this check has lost the owner of the bank card. In case of loss or theft, other persons may make small payments with your bank card. A certain guarantee is given by the bank if the theft or the loss is indicated in good time. The banks have assumed some responsibility here. They give guarantees that reduce the loss or they compensate for the expenses incurred by a person with less honorable intentions. There are now also impostors who walk around with mobile terminals and actively pass by with hidden terminals along back pockets or handbags. They look forward to unsuspecting citizens. They also manage to take away small amounts of money from them. Citizens often do not notice this immediately because they are small amounts that are systematically collected. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure you know the videos on Youtube about that. Are there any figures on the number of cases of abuse? Are there any calls with the banking sector to tighten the security measures? Paying contactless is part of the future, but it must be possible to do so safely. Are discussions with the banking sector ongoing on a possible compensation mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u76	This appears to be a false story that a consumer organisation launched more than two years ago. The organisation concerned also admits that this is rather theoretical. In a neighbouring country such as the Netherlands, where contactless payment is heavily settled, there is zero fraud in that area. Their system, the NFC system, is identical to our system of contactless payment. The fraud described is non-existent, because efforts to obtain small amounts are pointless. After all, a terminal requires the necessary registration on the basis of identity. The payments are also traceable. Febelfin does not have any figures and has not received any complaints about them either, Ombudsfin. The banking sector will, on the basis of the legislation, assume its responsibility and reimburse customers if the hypothesis were to prevail. This is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u77	I am satisfied with the fact that, if it were previously, the banking sector would develop a compensation mechanism. That's the good news. Zero fraud in reality surprises me a little. I myself have been contacted by two older ladies who claimed that they were affected by it. It seems that they have not indicated this, if I may accept your statement as true. I have no doubt that you received those figures. This has to be verified. The most important message we have to give is that there will be a compensation mechanism and that it is de facto safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u78	Question No 55003987C by Mr Kris Verduyckt is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, oxygen cylinders are considered a "drug" and are therefore subject to a reduced VAT rate of 6%, which is not the case for oxygen concentrators, as is the case in neighbouring countries. Minister, can you explain to me why the 6% rate cannot be applied to oxygen concentrators while the Is there a medical prescription and, as I learned yesterday, this rate is applied for soap and even for laundry products?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u80	Mr Piedboeuf, your question concerns the VAT rate applicable to oxygen concentrators intended for the personal use of patients. Since these devices are not medicinal products but medical aid devices and as such, they are not covered by one of the headings in Tables A and B of the Annex to Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 on VAT rates, their delivery or rental is subject to the normal VAT rate of 21%. This position is supported by the judgment of the Liège Court of Appeal of 14 November 2018 challenging the Belgian State against SA Oxycury Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u81	Minister, these products, which are both subject to medical prescription, are the same. They also have the same effects. In both cases, it is a question of treating patients, even if it is with products that fall under different nomenclatures (for one, it is 21; for the other, it is 6). As far as I'm concerned, I don't think that's normal. But I hear, Minister, that you want to comply with European directives. And you're probably right. In any event, I am amazed that parliamentarians are not working to change this completely unacceptable VAT rate, especially when we know that the reduced rate of 6% is applied to soap and laundry products.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u82	Mr President, Minister, we talk very often about support in today's corona times. This concerns liquidity aid, solvency aid and other aid. It would perhaps be more interesting if we were to bring the investment logic into the debate a little more, also because it is a one-off and the budget is not a structural problem. We would also be given more room for manoeuvre by the European Union in this area. We also see that the debate on investment is growing at European level. In particular, in this debate, the European Investment Bank has been given a major role and a position has still not been filled. We have the right to appoint a Vice-President or a Vice-President on that Management Committee, which would be very useful, to attract investments to us, because of the discussions with the Netherlands on this matter. That is not happening and has not happened in recent years. We all know the history of the file. In particular, I would like to ask you the following question. What's the status of the file? In particular, I would like to give you the message that this is a dossier which we are very closely monitoring, given the importance of such a function and the consultation that will be necessary for that purpose with Parliament and the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u83	Mr President, Mr Loones, Belgium is indeed entitled to be Vice-President on the Management Committee of the European Investment Bank, in particular since 1 January 2018, for a period of five years. The previous government did not agree on the implementation of the post, which has since been vacant. After the resignation of the previous government, I inherited my predecessor's file. The current government is further examining what is the best solution, but will not propose a candidate in the short term, as the COOVID-19 crisis demands full attention. I do not believe that the provisions which have been used to seek Parliament's confidence will allow this to happen either. In a broader sense, I agree with you that it would be a good thing if our country, which represents three countries, were to be given the right to represent within the EIB, which would also benefit the three countries concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u84	Mr President, Minister, it is good that you confirm that the government will not increase its mandate to that extent. I repeat that, should there be any discussion about this in the future, we call for them to be conducted in consultation with Parliament and the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u85	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about the study on the costs of asylum seekers ordered by the previous government from the National Bank. In October 2019 I asked you about the state of affairs and I came back to that in February. You replied that the results are expected by summer 2020. Mr Minister, are we on schedule and are we getting the timing despite the corona crisis? Is there a delay? I would also like to know what stage the investigation is at. If there are any results of this study, can Parliament look them in the eye? If necessary, we can already plan a discussion of the research results. How do you see that? After all, you said at the time that it would be considered whether anything could be shared with Parliament in the meantime. We are still asking for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u86	The information I provided to you a few months ago is still valid. It remains the intention of the National Bank of Belgium to produce the report in the summer of 2020. At that time, the study will also be published in all transparency on the website of the National Bank of Belgium. The employees of the National Bank of Belgium are now processing the data made available by the Crossroads Bank of Social Security in January 2020. They are also currently participating in the work of the Economic Risk Management Group, the ERMG. Although there is no delay at this stage, I believe that a small delay would be entirely justified if the follow-up to the COVID crisis were to continue for a long time and remain as intensive as it has been in recent weeks. The priority now lies in the management of this emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u87	Minister, I thought it was a very vague answer because my question was simply whether we are on schedule. After all, you talked about it before the summer and it is already June. When exactly will this study be completed? You say that you can follow this through the National Bank's website, but I assume that you, as the competent minister, have more insight into the state of play and the exact date on which the study will appear. Surely you need to know whether we can already share results with Parliament? It is not a question of simply referring to the National Bank's website where to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u88	Mr President, Minister, we have read the National Bank's business report. It says the National Bank is in the process of expanding its portfolio. I will not read out my specific questions, but I will ask a general question. Where does this stop? What's the limit for you? In addition, do you agree that the National Bank should not act as a shareholder?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u89	Mr President, the National Bank has indeed for the first time compiled a portfolio of shares. As mentioned in the corporate report 2019, published by the National Bank on 15 April, the book value of this portfolio was 553.4 million euros in the last year. In its comments in the company report, the National Bank indicated that investments are mainly made in euro area stock markets and that companies have to comply with specific ethical standards on the environment, social responsibility and governance. The information provided by the National Bank to its shareholders and the general public is in accordance with the legal standards applicable to it. The rights of shareholders are legally limited to the statutory portfolio of the National Bank. However, the portfolio in question is covered by the Agreement on Net Financial Assets, the agreement on net financial assets concluded between the ECB and the national central banks of the euro area. This agreement should ensure that the ECB has full control over the size of the balance sheet of the Eurosystem. As a result, the National Bank is severely restricted in what information it may and can release about this portfolio. For example, information on its plans for the future in this area could cross the monetary policy of the euro area. Nor can the National Bank provide information on the identity of the external manager and on the reference index, as it would distort competition and the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I look forward to the next meeting of the committee, which will deal with my question on the German Supreme Court's ruling. I have read with great attention your paper of opinion on Europe Day, in which you yourself say that the German Supreme Court is pressing us to the point that it is not up to the central banks to take political decisions. But that is a question and a discussion for the next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u91	Colleagues, I have to close the meeting, as the minister has to leave. We're barely half the agenda. The minister has made a commitment to come to committee often to answer our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u92	Mr President, allow me to point out that I submitted my speech on 11 May. Pursuant to Rule 130 and Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, interviews must be dealt with within two weeks of dispatch and interviews must come to the agenda by default.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u93	The Regulations also require the Minister to respond to oral questions each week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u94	Mr President, what you are saying is quite possible, but the interplay was presented effectively on 11 May. What happens now, I find no style and no way of working. A similar situation arises in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where I have submitted an interplay to Minister Ducarme, and even dares to say that he will answer interviews one month after the date. In fact, I find it quite scandalous that we in Parliament should be dealing with interplays in this way and that the Rules of Procedure should be followed up in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic194x.u95	I apologize for the fact that we started later. As soon as the National Security Council was over, I came here immediately. That took away two hours, which was provided for in principle and in which a large part of the questions could have been answered. I will, together with the secretariat, do my best to make more time available to deal with interplays and to be able to answer questions. These are not easy times to plan things, but I am absolutely aware that I need to make enough room for dialogue with Parliament.
