ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2020, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2020, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u3	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law establishing the army contingent for the year 2021, No. 1690/1 was tabled. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law establishing the military quota for the year 2021, No. 1690/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the urgency is invoked because the army's contingent must be approved annually, as you know. This is provided for in article 183 of the Constitution. The urgency is invoked because, as every year, we have to establish the military quota, in accordance with Article 183 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u5	Thank you. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u6	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Koen Geens, Steven Matheï.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u7	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Ms Katja Gabriëls and Mr Christophe Lacroix, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u8	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today 15 December 2020. We are holding the debate today and will decide on Thursday 17 December 2020 on a number of measures, specifically for justice, which are needed under COOVID-19. Let me note that, knowing that the second lockdown is already being discussed about a third lockdown, we are already a little late with these measures, especially since a whole section of the measures under consideration has just been taken from the texts of your predecessor in the spring of 2020. There's more to it than that. Mr De Roover has pointed this out on several occasions. We have been pointing out for months that there is a need for a pandemic law. You know that, too. That pandemic law must also safeguard our fundamental rights, which you have been or are beginning to worry about over the last few days through all kinds of declarations. However, Minister, I understand that this pandemic law would gradually begin. I look forward to it, especially the provisions on justice. In the meantime, however, people are being beaten with the most diverse reports about drones and residential entrances. Is a ministerial decision a legal basis whereby Parliament is excluded and the Council of State can thus be quickly bypassed? Are we based far too much on a FAQ, which is not a legal basis? We are already on the thirteenth or fourteenth version, I have long lost count. As a guardian of the rule of law, as you have called yourself a long time ago, you also know that something needs to be done about this. We look forward to that. However, we note that there was some chaos in the handling of this draft. This procedure was somewhat delayed, but it was quickly discussed in committee after the urgency of the matter. We worked on it then. However, let me say that this also happened with some chaos. There were last minute amendments, which is not strange for this House. However, the fact that amendments specifically for the judiciary were to be dealt with in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs at the beginning of this week is not correct. However, Minister, that is a procedural matter, which I simply had to address. In substance, I do have something else to say. First of all, something close to my colleague Van Vaerenbergh's heart, the video conferences. You know that we are very fond of using a video conference, including within the Justice Department. It is a pity that this chapter was apparently not sufficiently prepared to remain in this draft. It was taken out because it wasn't sufficiently worked out. I think this is a missed opportunity, and I sincerely hope that it is a delay and not a setback, because that is essential for the efficient functioning of justice. There are still a lot of provisions which are limited in time and which in themselves even make sense in this corona crisis. We have therefore supported it. Otherwise, it will be for the measures taken in the execution of the sentence. We have already had that debate, but I would like to say a few things in this plenary today. As far as punishment is concerned, this draft of covid measures is far less obvious to us. Because what will you do? You want an early release for inmates six months before the end of the sentence. That is actually a very nice Christmas present, a penalty discount which, as it is described in the legal texts, will be granted almost automatically, with hardly any conditions. It is only a question of how these conditions will be controlled. You are providing for a penalty interruption in the framework of COVID-19. In other words, prisoners are allowed to leave the prison temporarily. You want to avoid a va-et-vient, but you almost create a new one. That is a very easy solution to reduce or reduce the overpopulation in prisons. It did not say that at first, but it was added by means of an amendment. I was relieved at first that it wasn't in there, but it came with it. And then there is the letter of conversion, in which non-urgent convictions will no longer be carried out. The execution of the sentence will be put on hold. I have a question for you, Minister. You have been calling for stricter enforcement in the context of covid offences for a long time. Rightly, because action must be taken against those who violate the measures, otherwise they will continue to do so. This weekend, you even argued for even higher fines. I've heard and seen that. However, the current legislation already provides for higher fines for those who are sued in court, up to EUR 4,000 and a three-month prison sentence. The most important thing to do is to apply the law. Justice has the tools, apply them. If we adopt these measures, non-urgent convictions will no longer be carried out. I can already imagine that prison sentences will cover up to three months. On the one hand, you say that you will act harder against the covid offenders, but on the other hand that the convictions will not be carried out for the time being. This is how you organize the impunity right away, and that cannot be the intention. On the other hand, you want to reduce the overpopulation in prisons. I sincerely believe that we must be careful not to create a greater security problem than we are solving. Moreover, let us be honest: the overpopulation has been around for years. We know that, and that is not a new problem and should not, frankly, be used as an excuse. I know what you are going to say and I know what we said about it up to now, but they have been extended. Today we are in the second wave and now it is repeated. That is a much bigger problem for me, Minister, because the question was not whether there would be a second wave, but when it would come. You said in committee that you did not expect that, but I do not understand that. The Prime Minister said that, Minister Vandenbroucke said that, and you also said that the second wave was a surprise, but it was announced in May or June. So my reproach is that people were not prepared: they did not seek alternatives to a release, while one could have anticipated and be creative. There are possibilities, but apparently they didn't do that exercise. It is, of course, much easier to decide now that those who have only six months to serve may leave prison. That is almost a monopoly game: if one is lucky, one gets to the right place. Only six months to go: free. Punishment granted. Non-urgent convictions, we don't carry them out. I think that's a far too easy exercise. Be careful, I understand it's not obvious in prisons. I realise that it is not easy and I fully understand the difficult living and working conditions. As I said in committee, however, I should like to say something, as mayor who experienced a very serious outbreak in a residential care centre in the first wave: a prison is a collectivity, but so is a residential care centre. You open the prison gates now, but in other collections, such as residential care centres, the doors are closed. The people who live and stay there, mostly people in the fall of their lives, are cut off from family and friends. That's where the doors are closing, those people are being cohorted. I think that's a horrible word. Those people are being locked up, as it were. The prison door opens, while the residential care centers close their doors. That bothers me, because the people there have done nothing wrong, quite the contrary, but they are punished. That's really hard on my stomach and I wanted to say that. Mr Minister, above all, by taking this measure, it is shown that the government is failing. I also said it to Minister None. Punishment is a central task of the government. Now this is being put on hold too easily. The obviousness and the ease with which that happens, I find quite appalling. I am not okay with people who have been convicted, who have shown criminal behavior, being allowed to benefit from the health crisis. I'm not okay with that. I'm worried about that. Safety and justice must be guaranteed, even during a health crisis. Justice is an essential sector. It is also mentioned in the introduction to this draft law. So act like one. So just do the core job. I am even more disappointed by the fact, Minister, that this is the way in which the broad failure of the government is being masked throughout the course of this crisis. That bothers me a lot more. This weekend, in the media, you have again strongly argued in favour of severe punishment. You pleaded for higher fines. I understand that, there is a need to act against participants and organizers of lockdown parties. Your previous president doesn't think so, you should read her tweets, she doesn't think that high fines are necessary. You've argued for it. However, these stricter penalties are already in the legislation today, which are already perfectly possible. That can be done, Justice already has the tools today. Apply it. If we then apply it, and that is the problem of course, then we must also implement it. Why don't you go talk to the people on the premises? I know that you are happy to do so and have already done so, but do it again. Listen to those who have to do law enforcement in the provinces, who make findings. They do their best, they maintain, they file files, they even punish, but in execution, with those short prison sentences, there's a limp. Then there's no point. Eventually one tries to camouflage the fact that one does not fulfil one's task. On the one hand, severe penalties are announced and, on the other hand, measures are taken to prevent them from being implemented. You're the one who organizes the impunity here. After all, it is nothing more than a marketing talk, honking that there will be stricter and more severe penalties, while in practice they are doing the opposite. That is the reality. If you want to undermine your own credibility, you must do so above all. You have said that you want to be judged on the credibility of justice, but in this way you undermine it. That's very unfortunate. Shooting on the table or making strong statements won't help. Minister, two committee meetings ago you said in reply to a question that you should not only listen to your words, you should also look at your actions. You literally said that, and I wrote it down correctly, so I wouldn't forget it. It is difficult not to listen to you, because you can be heard and seen everywhere, with a message that cannot be punished enough. So that machine's running like hell. However, I would also like to do what you asked and look at your actions. This draft law is one of your actions and I believe that it is difficult for this act to be even more contrary to your words. Mr. Secretary, that jug's gonna be in the water for so long until it bursts. I am listening to your words and I am looking at your actions, but I have to say that they are in huge conflict with each other. That is a pity, because justice, society and security deserve better. We must continue to carry out this core task without scratching anything like you are doing right now. Minister, we expect not only words, but also consistent actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u9	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like what happened during the first wave, various measures must be taken to avoid contacts which are not absolutely indispensable, with a view to combating the pandemic while ensuring the continuity of the essential service of justice. Many of the measures provided for in this project do not present any difficulties for us. I quote, for example, the swearing-in by written declaration of various actors in the justice system, the free use of notarial power of attorneys, the extension of time limits for court and amicable court sales, the filing of documents initiating proceedings via the e-Deposit system, the extension of time limits for providing supporting documents to qualify for second-line legal aid. For other measures, the balance is sometimes very difficult to balance between the management of the exceptional health crisis and the protection of fundamental values and rights, such as the rights of defence, the protection of the rights of detainees and the rights of creditors, who can also become debtors. It is therefore important to stress that the majority of the measures before us today are applicable until 31 March 2021. Their possible extension by deliberate royal decree in the Council of Ministers will be evaluated. It was important to stress that. I welcome the opening of the minister who has accepted various advances during the discussions in committee. He and his firm have sometimes proposed amendments reflecting the discussions, and we have also been able, at the initiative of the MR, to provide that the bill now states that the trustee may hold a general meeting of the co-owners if a decision is required. The draft called for an urgent decision. This is no longer the case. For the sector we have listened to, this nuance is obviously very important. This avoids the possibility that work, which was not necessarily urgent and could not have been convened by the General Assembly, can be decided if the file is ready. Renovation of a roof or other important work that, if delayed, could jeopardize proper management of the property is considered. Following the advice of lawyers.be, other amendments were adopted, allowing victims to appear in person in the enforcement court or in the social welfare chamber. Initially, always in the interests of protection against the covid crisis, the victims had to be represented by their counsel. But we found it important for victims to be able to come in person to the enforcement court. Unfortunately, the exceptional health situation has led the Government to take extremely difficult measures for detainees. The suspension of decisions to grant leave or prison leave, coupled with the suspension of family visits and friendly visits, is obviously very complicated to accept and manage also for prison staff, especially since prisoners are often in short supply during this period. The measures must ensure that contamination does not spread from the outside world to prisons, in order to protect prisoners, but also all those who courageously continue their work there. These restrictions must be regularly re-evaluated, adapted and – we insist – limited in time to the strictest necessity. With a view to reducing prison overcrowding, which is a vector of spread, the bill provides – along the lines of Royal Decree No. 3 – for two measures: the interruption of the execution of the sentence and early release. These worked well during the first wave. It was therefore wise to reintroduce them into this project by adapting them, in order to reduce prison pressure. However, I must express a sense of regret. I believe that, like the United Kingdom, we could have considered a more systematic use of the electronic bracelet so that the penalty could continue to be carried out instead of being suspended, as is currently the case. In conclusion, I would like to return to the provisions on the moratorium on bankruptcies. For the MR group, it is essential to act quickly in the face of the danger they represent. According to an analysis of more than 400,000 companies carried out by the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB) on 8 September, 25% of them were in financial difficulty. This means that they were at risk of bankruptcy or were in urgent need of liquidity. For the Horeca sector, the risk of bankruptcy is still estimated to be above 40%. In addition, the Graydon Economic Information Office expects, after the expiry of the moratorium and the support measures, an additional 50,000 bankruptcies in the coming quarters to be added to the 10,000 bankruptcies pronounced annually in Belgium. This report gives an idea of the scale of the crisis: between 10,000 bankruptcies each year and a projection of 50,000. The MR Group, at the initiative of Denis Ducrame, has tabled a text on the judicial reorganization procedure. We believe it is urgent to reduce and simplify the existing procedures that firms in difficulty can use. By January, the federal government will be working on this modernization of the judicial reorganization process. Pending its adaptation, provisions such as the moratorium on bankruptcies are indispensable. The MR will support the project but calls for the various measures to be re-evaluated gradually and regularly and relaxed as soon as the health situation permits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u10	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is part of the fight against the coronavirus, at least to a large extent. Minister, you are bringing together a number of measures that have been taken in the past and giving them a legal basis. I refer, for example, to the numerous RBs and to a number of laws that have already been adopted in this Parliament, and in both cases the extension of time limits is indeed desirable. That's something I can understand. I would like to point out first of all that, irrespective of any legislative initiative, several professions have taken significant measures at the start of the corona crisis on their own initiative and without any legal obligation. I refer, for example, to the courts and courts, to the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs, to the Order of Lawyers, to the Supreme Court of Justice. In other words, all these judicial actors continued to work as well and as badly as they could from the start of the crisis. They put a number of proposals into practice at that time and I am pleased that several of the proposals have been included in this draft. Prior to that, I must tell you, Minister, as I did at the committee meeting, that our group would have preferred to pay attention to a real pandemic law or to legally anchor a general roadmap for possible future pandemics. Of course, I hope with you that this will not be the reality anymore, but I still think that working on a general script is anything but an unnecessary luxury. I think we're all aware of this on the ground. It is very important that all actors are involved in this. Not only is my group arguing in favour of this: I have just heard Mr De Wit say so. There are also more and more voices on the ground to make urgent work of it. You said, Minister, that you wanted to give this leadership to the Minister of the Interior. I think that you should not wait for this and that you should both take the lead on such an initiative together. Above all, you need to get to work on this quickly. The input of Justice will be at least as large as the input of Home Affairs, if it is not already greater. I come to the content of this draft. I repeat what I said in committee: our group can support the vast majority of the measures announced. Of course, I am not going to go into it in detail anymore. We have had sufficient opportunity to do so during the discussion in committee. I will confine myself today to a number of comments on things that our group does not think are good and which are important. Firstly, the Council of State has given a very detailed opinion despite the short period of time available to it. A number of chapters were criticised in a very fundamental way, in my view the right criticism. I have to tell you that, although this has often not been the case in the past, you have largely taken account of these criticisms and you have removed a number of chapters from the original preliminary draft. That shows respect for the Council of State. Unfortunately, not all other fundamental comments were followed. I'll come back to that later. You, Minister, and this is important, want to pay attention to further digitisation. The submission of petitions and the like via e-Deposit and videoconferencing are just a few examples. You will find an ally in our group. Nevertheless, and I think that is very important, I would like to give two warnings. Firstly, there is still a great deal of work to be done in the area of digitalisation. I refer to my speech during the discussion of your policy statement. I won't repeat that. Many offices are still not digitally accessible, Minister. No documents, documents or petitions can be submitted there via e-Deposit. There is not even a complete overview of the addresses of the Registry until today. That is, however, very important. You have announced that you will do so quickly, Minister. I believe that this does not require any great effort, so I hope that we will have those addresses at our disposal this year. There is also a need for a major catching-up in terms of infrastructure. Today we have to see that magistrates and clerks have to work with outdated computers and that some of them have to take care of their own digital infrastructure. That should no longer be allowed in a modern justice system. These are just a few examples, but I hope that you will make the necessary resources available as a matter of priority. I would like to warn you that this is perhaps an even more important consideration that in our society not every citizen has the necessary information material or has his own Internet connection. Unfortunately, digital illiteracy remains a reality. I fear that in practice this problem is far greater than we think. Once again, I would like to refer to the very interesting impact note on your draft law, which also warns against it. Many people still do not have the necessary knowledge about all computer technologies. It is rightly said that digital illiteracy is a problem in wider social circles. I am thinking, for example, of older people. It is very important that you continue to focus on a two-track policy. As an example, I mention co-ownership and the general meeting in large apartment blocks. It is very important that there should be sufficient safeguards so that all fellow citizens can be involved and have a say if they so wish. Well, often it's about older people. I hope, therefore, that the guaranteed presence of all co-owners will not be compromised because of the lack of knowledge about digitisation, because then it should be a priority to postpone the general meeting. As regards the videoconferencing in general, the Council of State expressed fundamental criticism in the general comments and complained that the general definition of a videoconferencing is not always the same. This concept is not always referred to in the draft law in the same way. The Council of State therefore called for a separate chapter to be set up to develop that concept, which is very important in the context of legal certainty. You have not chosen what you will have your reasons for. However, I hope that this will be taken into account in the future. Legal certainty is particularly important here. Once again, people with financial problems are given a very high level of protection. The Flemish interest will and can support the principle, let that be clear. This concerns, for example, the temporary increase of 20% of seizure thresholds. You also propose a further suspension of certain enforcements. This concerns the temporary containment of the executive and, in certain cases, protective attachment against individuals. Storage herds themselves, as a principle, remain allowed. The debtor can continue to enjoy the goods during this crisis period without being able to dispose of them. There's logic in that, no problem. However, the principle that this is important must protect everyone affected by the corona crisis and affected by it in financial difficulties. I'm afraid you won't. You're actually going a lot further. It is not correct to simply suspend executions of claims that have arisen in the past, long before the corona crisis, i.e. before 13 March 2020, with a number of exceptions. In a number of cases, no execution can be carried out. With regard to the payment of a sum of money, retention and execution of a third party attachment become completely impossible. From a social point of view, I understand the temporary impossibility of making a wage claim, even after the thresholds have been raised. To exclude any protective and executive third party attachment is really a bridge too far. The limitation of the measure to that payroll, to a maximum fixed amount of pay, in order to protect the less well-off debtor, is absolutely understandable given the crisis conditions. However, the measure now before us is far too general. Let me give you an example. A wealthy debtor who doesn't own real estate or other movable property in our country, but who does get bank accounts or other claims, thanks to this corona crisis, a wonderful opportunity to make himself inability for bona fide creditors. This must not be your intention, Minister. I have a number of other crucial concerns. The measure you are planning seems to be a very social measure at first sight, but I do have doubts as to whether this will be the case in reality. In the past, the bailiffs have called the alarm bell, pointing out the different risks of this measure. I think we agree that they are a very important partner in this issue. It is therefore important to listen to them and to take their position into account, especially because it is a position based on knowledge of the facts and experience. Minister, I do not think you have any knowledge of current practice. Today's execution is already much less than for the corona crisis. I refer here to recent figures from the Central File of Confiscation Reports which clearly show that this new legislation is superfluous. Most bailiffs have already limited many herds on their own initiative and this is certainly for social reasons. So there is no need for additional legislative initiatives. I know from many bailiffs that, on their own initiative, they have spontaneously contacted the debtors by e-mail, by SMS, and have agreed on proposals to reduce, for example, the monthly abbreviations, if the debtor is having difficulty because of this crisis. They have been focusing more on mediation and reasonable and flexible payment plans than ever before. Very important, they also pay particular attention to the specific approach to heavily affected sectors. I am thinking of the catering industry and the healthcare sector. Now just saying that any form of execution, except for the exceptions, becomes temporarily impossible, is really a step too far. You make no distinction between the nature and the origin of the claim. Nor is any nuance laid in the person of the debtor. Once again, debtors who are truly in good faith and are really the victims of this corona crisis deserve protection, but you know as well as I and probably better that not all debtors have been in trouble today because of this crisis and have already built up a debt problem before 13 March 2020. If they become aware of this law, they will postpone any voluntary payment again. Moreover, the rogue debtors who are also there, unfortunately, will eagerly use this temporary measure to simply not pay any more. This will lead to a cascade of economic and financial problems for creditors who, in turn, are threatened with difficulties in paying their bills. This again increases the risk of serious problems for creditors, resulting in insolvency and bankruptcies. Mr. Secretary, that can't be your intention, can it? Creditors also have rights and deserve protection, otherwise they risk becoming future debtors. This applies not only to companies, but also to the ordinary creditor. Let me give you one example: that of the retired self-employed person who has worked very hard all his life and bought some apartments for rent with his savings. In that way one can boost one's very tight pension a bit. Do these people have to stand in the cold now if the tenant doesn't pay the rent? After all, they need that money to be able to pay their bills. That can't be your intention, can it? Moreover, judgments which were already res judicata before the entry into force of this law cannot be implemented at the present time, at least until mid-January. Of course, that is not your responsibility, because it is separate from this law. However, expulsion on the basis of these judgments is no longer possible in practice. Minister, this often gives rise to abuse in the field. For the record, I'm not saying all tenants are crooked, but crooked tenants know only too well that they now have carte blanche. After all, they can stay in the rented good undisturbed until January at least. In fact, there is a very good chance that this problem will continue to drag on for a long time to come. Once the corona wave is over, which hopefully will be the case in mid-January, although I have my doubts about it in view of the figures, there is a good chance that these files will continue to accumulate with the bailiffs. There is then a new difficulty, as the bailiff cannot act without the supervision of police officers, which is a very serious problem on the ground. In short, the interests of both parties were not properly weighed. We do not want to cooperate in such an arrangement. Minister, also debtors who are fully in good faith and who have been in difficulty due to corona-related or non-corona-related circumstances are not protected. After all, they often have many old dossiers and are faced with new advances on top of the current ones, which means that they are entering a vicious circle. For them, the situation really becomes hopeless, totally unmanageable and unsustainable, which means that they have to resort to debt mediation. In practice, this means once again a violation of the rights of creditors, who will only see their claim partially realised. That is something you, as a liberal minister, must combat. Fortunately, a number of exceptions have been included, namely any conviction in criminal matters and I am very pleased that you have explicitly and in writing confirmed this in the committee's report on the bourgeois party's claim. In previous discussions, it took a long time before your predecessor expressly confirmed this. From the outset, you did not leave any ambiguity about this, which is very important for the bourgeois party and for the victims. The temporary measures for the submission of petitions and, therefore, the extension of e-Deposit are less detailed. It concerns the extension of the possibility of using the Justice Information System to digitally transmit a number of documents, more than was allowed today on the basis of the Judicial Code. In this context, as in the committee's discussion, I would like to point out once again an important point of concern: the computer system of the Justice Department is not reliable. These are not my words, nor are the warnings of both the Council of State and the Supreme Court of Justice. The Council of State considers that enlargement entails the risk of excessive or improper recourse to the electronic procedure, which could lead to technical distortions of the justice computer system. The computer systems are not working how they should be today. In addition, numerous magistrates also report that they have no, not always or not easy access to the e-Deposit application. You must not throw away those serious warnings from some very important fellow players in the Justice Department. Moreover, it is not natural for a private individual who does not call on the assistance of a lawyer to make use of it in practice. The submission of petitions requires knowledge of a special role number chosen for this purpose, otherwise the document cannot be presented. Individuals don't have that roll number. Will you make efforts to make such a number known to individuals in one way or another? You will extend the time limit for supporting documents under the second-line legal assistance, the pro-Deo procedure. That's very positive, a good principle. However, that deadline will only be extended for emergency second-line assistance. I would like to get some more information on what exactly the concept of emergency second-line assistance means. That did not happen during the discussion in committee. I think it is very important to clarify this in order to prevent the Legal Assistance Office from applying the concept very widely in one arrondissement, while another arrondissement, where there may be many more applications, interprets it in a very strict way. In order to avoid misunderstandings, it is important to have a clear answer today. Finally, a very important part of the text is the measures to support the fight against the health crisis in prisons. The proposed measures aim at temporarily reducing the prison population and improving the management of the state of health in prisons. I realise that the corona crisis is putting a very heavy pressure on the prisons and, above all, on the penitentiary staff. I have said this several times, and I would like to pay tribute to them here. But the corona pandemic has been going on for almost 10 months now and the Justice Department could have been looking for other solutions by now. Unfortunately, that has not happened. That is not only your responsibility, since you have not been Minister of Justice for a very long time, but it is a shared responsibility, given that the former Minister of Justice was a coalition partner. Moreover, the overpopulation in our prisons is not a new problem, as Mr De Wit has pointed out; it has been dragging on for decades and has not yet received a definitive answer. First of all, Minister, I believe that the measures contained in this draft law are de facto interference in the rulings of courts and courts and an infringement of the separation of powers. I understand that you are particularly concerned about reducing the burden in prisons, including for the penitentiary staff, in the current circumstances, but a judgment in force of res judicata must be carried out, corona or not. I do not need to remind you that sentences and judgments condemning a person to a term of imprisonment of less than three years are almost not enforced in practice, except in a number of exceptional circumstances, and in that case electronic surveillance is carried out. Punishments of more than three years are being carried out, but a great deal must have been misguided in order to be sentenced by our criminal courts to a prison sentence of more than three years. This is obviously not important to you, Minister, despite your roaring announcements in the policy statement. I had a great deal of hope when I read your policy statement: it was done with impunity, zero tolerance and a rigorous approach to crime were particularly important to you. I told you at that time that was almost transferred from the Flemish Interest programme. Not only in your policy statement, but also in your numerous tweets, which I follow with great interest, in your interviews and statements to the media, you leave no doubt about this to the citizen, but when it comes to adding the act to the speech, you do not give up at home and you actually do the opposite. I regret that. I and many of my fellow citizens had expressed our hopes in your announcements, but in your first legislative initiative you are doing the opposite of what you have promised. I call that word breach, Minister. For our party, this also lives with the population, a sentence must be served. Six months before the end of the sentence actually means six months before the execution of a third of the sentence and two thirds of the sentence. Well, that is absolutely the wrong signal, also from the point of view of the principle of equality. I said that in committee, and I would like to repeat it here. I am afraid that shaky criminalists - our country counts - will be eager to make use of it and will initiate proceedings on the violation of the principle of equality, because prisoners who are currently subject to the conditions of the draft law will have their sentence shortened by six months by the decision, while prisoners who are outside the conditions will not receive that favor from you. Perhaps the corona crisis can be left in the middle, but I do not believe in it to justify a penalty break, for everyone under the same conditions, but never an early release. This should be subject to the same conditions for all detainees. Fortunately, not all of the convicts get that beautiful gift from you and there are a number of exceptions. I refer to facts of terrorism and morals. You ruled them out of the scheme. I also have major reservations about the involvement of the victims. There's an obligation to notify the prosecution. But victims do not get a say, and we regret that. This is yet another violation of the rights of the victims. Once again, they get the feeling that impunity rules here. I would like to remind you once again of your policy statement, in which you have given extensive and proper attention to the victim, which you wish to put at the centre. Now, if you are serious, you must also take into account the interests of the victim, who are above the interests of the offender, in your draft law. The victim must have a say and be given the opportunity to resist. A trial period is introduced, linked to three conditions, namely not committing offences, not harassing the victim and complying with the corona measures. It shouldn't have happened. The question arises how the prison director will be able to judge whether the prisoner will comply with the corona measures or with the other measures? How can he know that the prisoner will not commit any new serious facts or that he will not disturb the victim? I have big questions about that. I hope, Minister, that the regulation can prevent new facts. You've already been warned. In this context, I have a brief question concerning the opinion of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners, which calls for the necessary people and resources to be used for this early release for the supervision and follow-up of the convicted persons and their surroundings. This is all the more true in the case of a conviction for crimes of violence and, above all, in the case of risks of intra-family violence. Guarantees are also needed in this area, but unfortunately this is not your responsibility. I hope that you will discuss this with those responsible. The draft law now before us has a number of very good objectives, which we can endorse. However, as I have tried to explain in detail, our group has a number of important reservations. For these reasons, we will not approve this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u11	Madam President, I should like to be brief, because if something is right, I do not think it is appropriate to emphasise it with too many words. I am glad that Mr Dillen has underlined it. Minister, your two draft laws, the Chamber, have been wise enough to divide your bill into two, both of which have their merit. The part proposed in the Committee on Justice takes over some of the provisions of the power of attorney decisions and adds a number of provisions. In particular, it allows the King to extend those temporary measures if necessary. This means that many of these things, as a foolish example, may perhaps be phased out gradually, in some cases, by the need to call two witnesses to a notary. Old traditions sometimes take a lot of time to disappear and the summoning of witnesses may be such a tradition that may be gradually abolished with your support by the King. The part of the draft proposed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is even closer to my heart, as is Mr Matheï. In the previous legislature, I tried very hard to get the general meetings of companies and associations to meet virtually if necessary. It's unclear how long the corona crisis will last. In the long term, other circumstances will also be exceptional, while digitalisation has, in any case, taken an irreversible path. For this reason, I am very pleased that you are reconsidering the idea of allowing these meetings virtually, even if there is no statutory authorisation. In times of crisis, a company cannot give that statutory authorisation in a physical way. Similarly, large listed companies and large associations with hundreds of members are in difficulty and are unable to hold their annual special or extraordinary meetings. This is a definitive structural improvement, to the regret of whom it envies. Economic law is always something more avant-garde than civil law and criminal law. However, that is only a matter of time. I would like to remind you of Mr Matheï's question which you answered in the debate. This discussed the possibility of allowing boards of boards of non-profit organisations to take place remotely. You confirmed that. This is an important confirmation which should not be interpreted in any way as detrimental to companies. There it is a long tradition that virtual or telephone meetings can be held. We are grateful for the clarification and I am pleased that this draft can be voted safely before Christmas for 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u12	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to highlight the much-anticipated social measures taken in this bill. These measures represent a breath of oxygen for many, for the most fragile populations. This breath of oxygen is necessary in the complicated period that we live and where every day that passes is harder than the previous one. My group therefore supports the measures that are being put forward. I am thinking in particular of the suspension of seizures on wages, the suspension of bankruptcies and the increase in the thresholds for non-entry. These measures are important, given the situation on the ground. It is in our DNA to fight for solidarity, so that no one is set aside and remind that every person is important. That is why we support all measures in this direction at the municipal, regional and federal levels. However, I regret that the measures taken are time-limited. Indeed, in view of the situation we are going through, it would have been necessary to prolong them a little. Thus, the measure relating to the suspension of seizures should have been applicable throughout the crisis - everyone knows that it will not be completed on 31 January or 31 March. In these circumstances, why have the application of this measure been limited in time? It would also have been necessary for the measure relating to the increase in the threshold to be permanent. Indeed, the crisis we are experiencing is only indicative of a very difficult situation already encountered by the most fragile population in our country. Moreover, the measures taken for the self-employed should have been extended to all those suffering from the effects of the crisis. In other words, they should not only have applied to entrepreneurs who have had to close their businesses, but also to all those who have seen their turnover decrease and are in difficulty. I will spare you the reading of the various testimonies of young entrepreneurs, like Jennifer who was forced to close her little sandwich shop because of the health measures affecting the Horeca. I'm thinking about hairdressers too. All this suffering should be taken into account. It is well known that the effects of this crisis will last for months or even years and that it is important to consider these measures in the long term. With respect to the organization of justice, I wanted to point out that the use of the hearing via videoconference was withdrawn from this bill. That is why I welcome the fight of the justice sector. I must confess that I am impressed by their time of reaction, their mobilization. And, on several occasions, they have managed to push back the government on measures that promote guaranteed justice for all. To that end, I wished to commend their struggle to ensure the preservation of the rights of the litigants. During the discussions in committee, we had proposed two amendments, in particular with regard to the articles which provided that victims should no longer appear personally before the sentencing court. These measures were withdrawn as a result of my group's opposition. We welcome this, as well as the majority's consideration of these amendments and the withdrawal of these articles. Indeed, the rights of victims must be guaranteed in all circumstances. A word also about the situation in prisons, which is catastrophic. Minister, I'm not teaching you anything, you know better than I do. The workload of officers has increased as a result of contamination. Already in insufficient numbers in normal times, today these agents have to deal with sick work stoppages and lack of staff. It would be necessary to support them - I have already expressed it in committee - by a structural upgrading of their status – that is the least of the things - and, why not, as the CGSP is asking, a crisis premium for these agents who are on the front line in the face of the pandemic? The project before us does not say much about the protection of staff, when, for example, systematic screening of court and prison staff could be implemented. In conclusion, we will support this project even though, as I have pointed out, much remains to be done. The social measures envisaged today are absolutely necessary. They must be put in place, but this remains insufficient in the face of the crisis we face. We must go further and I hope that we will be heard as soon as possible: the extension of these measures until the end of the crisis must be envisaged. This is not the case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u13	Minister, the draft before us was divided into two parts: the justice and the economy. In the area of justice, it is known that the perennial aspects of the measures have been removed from the draft. Pandemic-related mechanisms have been retained only for the protection of justice actors, but also for the protection of the litigants. We rejoiced. You have largely corrected the longer-term aspects, on which we will have to reflect in the longer term. Unfortunately, the economic side was not quite the same. Indeed, the so-called covid measures for general meetings of companies and associations which have a general scope exceed the strict period of confinement. The actions taken during the first confinement were not evaluated. The same applies to the moratorium on bankruptcies, which we regret is not extended to all economic sectors. It is well known that it is not because a company did not have to close that it easily manages. It can be reached by the closure of other companies of which it is, for example, one of the suppliers. We welcome the measures taken in the area of justice, in the interests of the detainees during this period, which allow for early release or suspension of sentences during the period of confinement. These measures allow prisoners to live more dignifiedly during this difficult period, which also relieves pressure in prisons. There have been quite a few amendments in the last minute in the Committee on the Economy. On the substance, these amendments did not pose a real problem, but they should normally have been submitted to the opinion of the Committee on Justice. This request was rejected. Of course, we regret that way. It was thought that this process belonged to the past. In addition, we were questioned in the last minute, like other colleagues, by the social associations sector, Unisoc. He has made us aware of the fact that, because of legal certainty or in order to formalize a practice already accepted by the doctrine concerning videoconference meetings, the possibility of holding meetings of the board of directors at all times is enshrined in the Code of Companies and Associations. The small ASBLs have continued to organize their board of directors by videoconference in order to comply with the health safety instructions. In order to comply with the requests of these associations, we have tabled four amendments aimed at perfecting the text. They were distributed. They are not very disturbing for the general economy of the text. These amendments are likely to provide more security for small associations which sometimes have more difficulty than large non-profit organisations in complying with standards. As far as the economic side is concerned, on what is strictly linked to the pandemic, we will abstain from this text, but we hope that the government will be able to read the amendments that have been tabled. I'm saying they're not very disturbing. I have heard several times the minister but also other ministers in this government say: "In essence, we want to work hand in hand with the opposition". We have tabled amendments which were objectively of a nature, not to contradict the very principles of the text, but to improve it and improve it in the light of what the sectors tell us. It is also our role to do so. The amendments that we tabled in committee have been wiped out with one back of the hand – that is the least we can say. Here, we are resubmitting them and we really hope that the majority will be able, by the votes scheduled for Thursday, to examine them. They are not such as to change the system completely, but they bring much more legal certainty to an associative sector that has also accomplished many missions during this pandemic and needs some support from us. We hope you can do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the broad parliamentary support for this draft. Both on the right and on the left, and on the outside, there appears to be support for this bill. I'm glad to hear that, but I'm not surprised. It builds on the work done by my predecessor during the first wave, with powers of attorney and legislation. In this sense, this can count on broad parliamentary support. New, and I welcome this, is that there has been a public debate in committee and now in plenum. That didn't happen with the power of attorney decisions because of the urgency. Now it was possible. We have taken a very long time in committee to discuss this, in the Committee on Justice and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, in the latter even with a second reading. I have replied very comprehensively to the points that have been made. Forgive me for not having that discussion again today. Mrs Dillen, I have heard many of your comments again, for example on the role of the victim. I have already replied to that in committee. Madam President, I do not think I am meant to repeat everything. The answers can be found in the parliamentary documents, which will be read with great interest. Here's what I'd like to say. In terms of timing, you will say that 15 December is richly late. At first glance it can be said that this is indeed richly late, but the following must be taken into account. Firstly, the government took the oath on 1 October. We started with the preliminary draft budget in mid-October, Mrs De Wit. We have asked the Council of State for advice. The first discussion in the Justice Commission took place at the beginning of December. I don't think one can go much faster. That is democracy, that is what working with a parliament means. Otherwise, you have to take power of attorney decisions. Then one can turn into one-two-three things. Or a ministerial decision, that's possible. That is not the preferred method. The most important thing is that there has been a wide-ranging debate and that there has been a contradiction of Parliament. Secondly, with regard to the whole debate on the legal basis and ministerial decision versus pandemic law, much has already been said about this in this House, including in the committees. The government is not deaf to that question, but I would like to make two observations. Today, on the basis of the Civil Security Act of 2007, we are working with a ministerial decision and its implementation. This has been the case on several occasions. They went to the Council of State, more than 30 times, including the curfew, the catering industry, with judgments on 28 and 30 October. They're fascinating judgments. There are many lawyers in this House, and I challenge you to read those judgments that are well-founded. The time has been taken to weigh up arguments pro and contra. Some people have the impression from these judgments that the Council of State is in the hands of Parliament and the government. That is a very strange reasoning. This would mean that the Council of State is a political instrument that can be instrumentalised at any time. Then came a remarkable judgment of the Council of State on religious freedom, which was very well argued. Some people in social media were talking about a spaghetti monster. They compared a spaghetti party to freedom of religion. I regret that because religious freedom is essential in our Constitution. I propose that those who want to laugh or exclude it should seek a two-thirds majority and a majority in both language communities in order to amend the Constitution. Freedom of religion is essential, as is freedom of association and freedom of expression. The Council of State had found that it was not possible to guarantee religious freedom in respect of certain religious communities. That is why the government has immediately adapted within 24 hours. Why am I saying all this? Because I believe that the system of the Civil Security Act of 2007 and the Ministerial Decree with all the judgments of the Council of State seem to me at this time sufficiently solid to work with. Does this mean that no parliamentary debate is possible? I dispute that. Firstly, on the ministerial decision and the adjustments, there is a weekly debate in Parliament. Oral questions in the committees and in the plenary session question the various ministers: the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Justice. It is Parliament that controls the government at that time. Secondly, on the parliamentary debate. It seems advisable to me that we should have a general pandemic law combining two things. On the one hand, legal certainty and legitimacy. This means that Parliament will have the last word. If it depends on me, it has to be confirmed every now and then, to take account of actuality. On the other hand, I also advocate flexibility. In such a pandemic it is important that the government, Parliament, the government can act promptly, immediately, accurately. Mrs De Wit, we cannot therefore wait weeks and months for legislation and the opinion of the Council of State to be able to act. There's got to be that combination. My colleague, Annelies Verlinden, has the lead in that file. That balance must be found. I am certainly very much in favour of bringing such a draft to Parliament. Thirdly, content. We have had the debate on the video conference. The Council of State was critical. I said that we would submit a draft to register a separate chapter, Mrs De Wit and Mrs Dillen, which would allow the video sessions. I am in favour of this, but we will have to take into account derogations from specific legislation. I am thinking, among other things, of criminal matters, where the rights of defence, the right of interpretation and so on must be guaranteed. That cannot be solved by a video session. There has been a great deal of debate about the measures we are taking in relation to the execution of sentences. These are not new, because we already had the KB No. 3. a power of attorney in which Mr Geens has taken a number of measures with regard to the prison system to alleviate the pressure generated by corona. Mrs Dillen, Mrs De Wit, for the record, these are not measures to solve the structural problem of the overpopulation. After all, that is another debate. We are talking about corona, where sufficient space is needed to enable staff to function and quarantine measures. This is the kind of measure that needs to be taken. We have based these measures on those that Mr Geens had taken before, both the early release and the interruption of the sentence and the debrief. They are therefore similar measures. Of course it is not easy for the N-VA to say that this is bad, as they said it was good. That KB No. 3 was approved within the famous supercore, the well-known group of ten. There our esteemed colleague Peter De Roover said that he let this pass. That was accepted at the time. He was the only leader of the political group there, a guard from Parliament, and he approved it. Now the N-VA has come to say that they didn't actually agree. That's like, "I was in the government but actually I wasn't in the government," I ran away. That is not a way of working, democracy does not work. Anyone who participates in a government bears and must accept responsibility. In fact, Mrs De Wit, we have taken these measures under stricter conditions than in the first wave. That's hard for you, of course. I have also outlined this in detail in committee, the conditions are now stricter because we have learned from the first wave. In fact, you should be in favour of this because we have learned something, which is, of course, a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these measures are necessary to combat the corona pandemic. Mrs Dillen, the structural overpopulation is indeed another pair of sleeves. That problem has existed for a long time. I went back to the time when the high-profile Jean Gol was Minister of Justice in the 1980s. Apparently, even then, there was overpopulation. Is Van Quickenborne going to solve that problem now? I don't think so, actually. With the modesty that is my own, I have said that we will take steps forward, but we will not be able to solve it completely. This fits in with the ten-point plan that I outlined to you in my policy statement. It is a good thing that the opposition in Parliament keeps people in the right direction from time to time. Mrs. De Wit, you do well. You are talking about words and deeds, about the Minister just honking on television and making you nervous. The minister will tell you, but when will these actions come? It seems that Mr Van Hecke is asking the same question. Maybe we should take a look in the mirror. Firstly, as far as actions are concerned, the government agreement states that opportunities are no longer possible for police violence. What have my colleague from the Interior and myself done? Within two months of the coalition agreement, the COL, together with the parquet, was adapted. Last weekend there were incidents of violence against the police in Bruges. The accused were brought before the investigating court, using the modified COL. Those are actions, Mrs De Wit. Secondly, you are talking about words and actions relating to corona. There's the corona trial report. Some, including even a chief of police, who I won't mention by name, say that the police are doing a lot against Corona, but that the Justice Department can't follow. Did you look at Terzoe yesterday? We talked about the theme sessions in your district of Antwerp, where many participants of lockdown parties were punished, up to 4,000 euros. Saying the Justice Department doesn't make sense isn't correct. Mrs De Wit, those are not words, they are deeds. Thirdly, you say I'm talking about higher fines, but those fines are already high. You are a very good lawyer, but you must distinguish between the amounts of the friendly settlement, today from EUR 250 to 750, and the amounts laid down in the ministerial decision, up to EUR 4,000. What I have advocated is to raise the amounts of the friendly settlement that people have to pay immediately, apart from the court. We will hear at 4 p.m. at the press conference of the Attorney General whether that has actually happened. Maybe we'll see actions again at that moment. Colleagues, of course it is important to communicate properly. I hope no one here contests that. By the way, I am sitting here with Mr Mahdi, who also communicates well and clearly on Asylum and Migration. However, one must also implement it. One has to act, one has to act. Like an airplane that leaves, that is not words, but reality, we must ensure that this happens in the justice system. We'll try to do that willingly or willingly. Mrs De Wit, you are right about the problem of short sentences. The transfer note exists. We'll adapt it. We will implement the law on external legal status. It is my personal opinion, which I share with you and with Mr Geens, that it is a good thing that the short sentences are also carried out effectively. However, we must have the capacity and the possibility to do so. That is what is happening in the Netherlands, as you can see. For example, if a person is sentenced to two months' imprisonment, it is a good thing that the person concerned also serves that sentence. For many people, two months in prison will be a wake-up call. I therefore share that opinion, which I will also try to implement, with the limitations that are our own. Mrs Gilson, I would like to thank you for your intervention. Some things have been learned after the first wave and, in fact, an evaluation will be carried out by the National Bank of Belgium in particular with regard to the moratorium on bankruptcies. I also very much appreciated the changes that have been made thanks to your amendment, including those in favour of the victim. Mrs Dillen, I always appreciate your comments. You're very precise, you don't play the man. Many of your partymates could learn from that. You intervened about digitalization. You always tell me to make sure that not everyone is involved in digitalization. You have a point. As a result, my first site visit was also at the court of Antwerp, the Butterfly Palace. The building has cost a lot of money, but it works properly. It's an example for our country. That's where I met the common welcome. This is a service where illiterate or low-literate people are well received, with backup from the court, but also with social services, such as the CAW. This model should also be applied in other Belgian districts, so that people who are not digitally literate can go there. Antwerp must inspire us. You spoke of e-Deposit. In 2021, we're gonna roll that out. You have asked a very specific question in general role number. An e-deposit must be deposited today via a general role number. These general role numbers can be consulted via the Justice website. In the second quarter of next year, that will change to e-Deposit. This will make it easier to access, including for the general population. You also referred to the seizure. You didn't think it was normal for the debtors to be protected as well. We have opted for a moratorium that protects businesses and citizens. We have found a balance in this. I also fully support that balance. If shops are obliged to close, it is also the duty of the government to protect them from bankruptcy. That's the logic itself. There can't be a discussion about that. The same applies to people who are financially in trouble. They must also be protected. Of course, I'm listening to your concerns about abuse. Provisions have been introduced to prevent abuse. A number of debts are also excluded from this moratorium, such as the debt to maintenance money and the recovery of what had already started in criminal matters and fraud. None of this is covered by the moratorium. Let us be honest, the time limit is serious, Mrs Dillen. This is a temporary measure until the end of January. We will hopefully approve this bill on Thursday. It must be published in the Belgian Official Journal. That's gonna take some time. That's democracy. And then it will last another month, after which, according to the provisions of this law, it will be over. I do not therefore think that you should draw any major conclusions from this, Mrs Dillen. You also referred to the bailiffs. That's a new element. I had a very good meeting with the bailiffs yesterday. I appreciate their role. We'll do a lot of things together. They played a social role, or indeed some of them, during the first wave, and I think we should try to continue to do so. You referred to emergency assistance. In all honesty, Mrs Dillen, emergency aid as such is not included in the draft or in the explanatory statement. It's actually the individual appreciation of the office. That's not new. The idea that, if we do not have any documents, we can still rely on second-line assistance is not new. That's already in the Legal Code. We also used this in the first wave. We do not have the impression, Mrs Dillen, that there are very large differences between the different offices. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end with a few words for Mr Koen Geens. As Minister at the time, Koen Nonees took many measures in the first wave and he has always expressed the will to permeate some of these matters, as he calls it, a wonderful word. That means he wants to perpetuate certain things, make them structural. I would indeed like to pay tribute to the initiators of CD&V, Mr Geens and Mr Matheï, who tabled a legislative proposal on 27 October 2020 to allow the organisation of general meetings of companies and non-profit organisations on a digital and distance basis. That bill has inspired us, I admit, to make this possible in the present draft law. I also hope that we will be able to learn from the second wave to permanence other things, to make them structural. At least that's our ambition. Mr Boukili, Mrs Matz, thank you for your support on some points. You're going to want to go further, beyond the covid. I get it. Mrs Matz, I have seen the amendments tabled by your colleague Maxime Prévot, in particular on the ASBLs, following the opinion we have received from lawyers.be. I think I have explained in committee the reasons why we do not support these amendments. It is not because we do not want to listen to and even support the opposition on these points, but because it would make things even more complicated. I continue to have the open mind to look at opposition recommendations as well. In fact, we have done so with the policy statements. There were suggestions from the N-VA at the time and we replied that we would include them effectively in the second version. Words and deeds, we shall see what happens, Mrs De Wit. You are right: it is your job to point out to me permanently that this is happening. However, it is also my right to say that we in Justice are effectively changing things, and I think we are doing the same with the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u15	Madam President, I would like a brief reply. Mr Minister, first of all, you started the preliminary draft of this text in October and you have worked quickly, you say. I don't even want to question that, but I have a problem with that that's not even entirely your fault. The Wilmès administration in current cases has been given the confidence and powers of the hemisphere for months to manage the pandemic, but apparently nothing has happened around the pandemic law, knowing that there was a first wave and knowing that there would be a second wave. That law could have been prepared and then you should not have rushed so fast, Minister, and perhaps you could have taken the draft out of the slide. Secondly, you very much refer to the royal decisions, the power of attorneys and the Saturday meetings that have been held, I do not know where, because I was not there, but you cannot compare this with a parliamentary debate on specific measures being taken again, as is the case today. You may review any position of our party, including our position on the opening of prison doors. Mr Geens knows that, because I even asked him a question about this in plenary. So you can check all that and try to draw on bottles. That doesn't affect me or makes me nervous; I don't get nervous that easily, it takes a little more. I'd be more than happy to look at your words and your actions. Yes, there is the letter that states that there will no longer be an opportunity depot, but now of course comes the sequel, the execution, and there it is always limp. That's part of the point I was just trying to make. You are referring to yesterday's broadcast of the hearings that have been held. I am very pleased that there are these sessions, but that is not your credit, Minister. That is the credit of the judiciary. That's the credit of the police trying to keep enforcement on the street. That is the credit of the people of the prosecution and the judiciary. Now it will be the merit of those who have to carry out the punishments. What are we doing today? No urgent convictions. We're not gonna do that. Then it stops. There's a part of your job there. Words and deeds, Minister. One more thing about words and deeds. I will follow the press conference immediately on the fines of friendly settlement that can be higher. I'm curious. Mrs. Rutten didn't want that. I'm curious about her tweet. One Open Vld'er isn't the other. No problem. I will follow that with great attention. We shall see again whether this is being carried out. I hope it works, I hope it helps. You say you're in favour of short prison sentences, we need to be able to do that. I know. I see Mrs Van Cauter standing here: at last, no short sentences that are not served, the law will enter into force. Who has postponed that law in the meantime, Minister? You postponed them. It had to have entered into force, but it was postponed again and postponed again. Words and deeds. Minister, you have opened up other words and actions. We'll see each other tomorrow in the budget debate. It's also about words and deeds. We have had a lot of discussions on this. I know, there is a budgetary control in March, but for a lot of things that you are now promoting and which you have announced, the budget for tomorrow in the Chamber was provided for in EUR 0.0. As far as the Policy Paper 2.0 is concerned, I am pleased that you agree with some of our recommendations and wish to include them in a subsequent phase. I am very pleased with that, but there are also words and actions. I haven't seen the deeds yet. I've only heard the words. You said: Mrs De Wit, you have to understand that, it is the political game, I am going to vote that out now. That's the new political culture. Those are your words: you must understand that I cannot approve of this now, and it was voted off. Those are words and deeds. We have already received the words, Minister, but these actions have yet to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u16	You were right, Minister, to point out that we were able to debate this very extensively in committee. When you spoke about those video sessions, you addressed Mr De Wit and me. You said that this is going to be implemented, that this is at least your intention. I want to make no mistake about this. It is very important that before we make that decision, we should test what we want there. I'm a cool lover of it. That could be interesting for a number of things. I am not going to give examples, that would be too detailed. That requires a very thorough debate with all those involved in the field, and I hope you can hear it. Let there be no misunderstanding that I am in favour of that. With regard to the pandemic law, I was indeed not on the committee that dealt with these numerous royal decrees, I do not know how many there are in the meantime, 30 or 40, I have not been able to follow. Our group leader was on that committee. I did follow up on some of them, though. From the outset, we have advocated a pandemic law instead of measures on a subject-by-topic basis, without structure and too widespread. I want to make no mistake about that. It is not your responsibility, you were not a minister at the time, but if you are now told that it is a short day, that it has worked very quickly, you could have started in March. With regard to the batter, I think you're going over it slightly. This bill will be adopted on Thursday, I assume it will be, otherwise your majority will have a problem, but that is another story. It will then be published in the Belgian Official Journal. And then it's almost January 15th and then it ends. Minister, I fear that Corona will not end on 15 January. The figures are clear. It is true that a great deal can happen in a month's time, but I fear it is not going in the right direction. Together with you, I hope the opposite, but we must be realistic. It'll be January 15th soon. We must take care of it and ensure that there is a more balanced exercise. You gave the example of the shops that were closed and the people who were in trouble as a result, of citizens who were in trouble because of corona. In order for there to be no misunderstanding, I have expressly said several times that these people must be protected, that we support you in that. You say you spoke to the bailiffs yesterday or this morning. They will also have indicated to you that most of the files were pre-corona-crisis. If the crisis is to drag on for a long time, we must think about whether changes should be made in this area. Minister, you have rightly referred to the court of first instance in Antwerp and to the joint reception. That's a wonderful initiative. They may have pointed this out to you, but I can also tell you that the reception is for the people who are struggling or for the less literate, as you have described them, but it is now also a common welcome for the lawyers. We can't go to the Registry anymore. Everything is done through this joint reception, both for the submission of petitions and for conclusions and for the making of agreements. So the staff at that reception has a lot of work to do. So I hope they get your support. However, that is not an answer to my question about digitisation. For example, I do not know if you have been in the correcting chamber, where there are some computers, half of which are not working. We need to take pictures off the screen with our cell phones. You'll have to make an effort there. For the sake of clarity, that is not a reproach to the court of Antwerp but to the investments in Justice. That needs to be taken care of. For example, it is necessary to ensure that criminal records can be viewed directly from the office. I can only give you one example, but I can give you many more examples. Minister, you will of course find a supporter in my party for the execution of short sentences. However, it is very important that if short penalties are to be a shock effect or a wake-up call, as you called it, they are to be carried out immediately and not two years later. There is no point in that anymore. So you have to take care of that. Finally, I am very curious about the press conference of the College of Attorneys General, which I will follow with great attention. Mr Minister, I do not have TV at my disposal here, but I will certainly be watching and listening in a moment. I am very curious about the initiatives that will be taken there. I think you're right. I hope that will also be the result. The friendly solutions, in order to relieve the burden on the courts, and the amounts to be paid in this context, must also be raised spectacularly. Maybe that's a measure that'll scare people off. After all, I often hear that people are willing to take the risk and take the EUR 250 fine. That should not be the intention, Minister. A sanction must be a real deterrent. So I am very curious and will play briefly on the ball and follow up closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u17	Mr Minister, you said that Mr Maxime Prévot's amendments had been discussed in committee. However, it is not those that I am talking about, but the new ones that we have tabled and which are intended to cover a period after that laid down in Order No. 4. The general assemblies of the associations continued to meet by videoconference for health reasons. Our amendments aim to cover legally the acts which were carried out during the period during which no royal decree was taken and the possibility of which had not been envisaged. These are therefore four new amendments, not those discussed with Mr Maxime Prévot in the Committee on the Economy. This Sunday, several colleagues and I were seized of this request from the Unisoc. That is why we are relaying it in this plenary session. I have told you that these are useful and important considerations for the sectors, which can form a legal cement for the acts they have carried out after Royal Decree of Special Powers No 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u18	Mr Minister, I think we could give the floor to Mrs Rohonyi who, in the meantime, has arrived and asked me to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u19	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my delay: I was the victim of this last-minute change. In any case, I wanted to speak on this fundamental project, which overlaps several work of the Justice and Economy Committees. Colleagues, it must be admitted: there is something to drink and eat in this bill. First of all with regard to justice, it is important to remind you that my group fully shares the objective of this bill, according to which - whatever the wave of the epidemic we face - we must avoid physical contact and meetings when they are not absolutely essential, in order to limit the spread of the virus. At the same time, we must also ensure that this restriction of contacts is not to the detriment of the people who are entitled to it. We must ensure that it does not further aggravate the backlog of cases. We must ensure that justice is seen as an essential service, which, like any other public service, can continue to function despite the current circumstances. I am therefore pleased to see that, among other things, the deadlines for providing supporting documents under second-line legal aid could have been extended. I am also relieved to see that the two aspects which have been extremely criticized by the Bars - rightly - namely the generalization of the written procedure, but also the generalization of the videoconference, have finally been removed from this bill, mainly following the opinions given by the Council of State, but also by the Data Protection Authority. Unfortunately, this withdrawal is only temporary, which forces us to be very vigilant. Nevertheless, there are still problematic points on which, Mr Minister, I have asked you in committee, and for which the answers have not convinced me, and most recently in this last round of discussions. First, the power left to the King, and not to Parliament, to adapt the duration of the measures according to the situation, and thus to extend them, if any, beyond the date of 31 March 2021 set out in the bill in its article 81. I sincerely hope that our collective efforts, coupled with the arrival of the vaccine, will prevent us from having to get to that point. But if we were to do so in spite of everything, these extensions seem to me to have to go through Parliament, which is not allowed by a royal decree. Secondly, written proceedings before the Indictments Chamber are scheduled until 31 March 2021. In its opinion, counsel.be argued that recourse to written proceedings before the Indictments Chamber should be made with the agreement of the parties. It is in this sense, as we have just mentioned, that my colleague Mrs Matz tabled an amendment, which, unfortunately, was rejected in committee, which I must regret, Mr Minister. There was also the whole question of hearings before the enforcement judge and the enforcement court. It is true that a clarification could be made, namely that the sentence enforcement judge could be brought at the request of the convicted person's counsel, if any, from the counsel of the victim, the victim herself, or the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, this possibility is still not provided for with regard to the convicted person as such; whereas this is a hearing which I believe is fundamental with regard to respect for his rights. Still on the justice front, although it can be recognized that the measures taken with regard to early release are both a relief for prisoners but also for prison staff, the conditions of access are much stricter than those in force during the first confinement, since one of the conditions consists of three successful prison leave, compared to only one in the first wave. Like some of my colleagues, I continue to question the reasons for such severity, especially since, until proven otherwise, few failures appear to have been recorded in the interruptions in the execution of sentences that were granted during the first wave. As far as the economic side is concerned, the draft law contains a large number of definitive structural measures, this time not limited to the duration of the health crisis. This was strongly criticized by the Council of State in its opinion. I also think that taking advantage of the second wave finally to sustain what had worked during the first wave is not correct, in any case not in the absence of a thorough debate in Parliament and, in particular, with the sectors concerned. I am thinking in particular of the possibility of organising the general meetings of companies from a distance, while knowing that the members of the general assembly who wish to be physically present can be present. If this is an excellent thing, this possibility will not benefit very large companies because it is not adapted to their reality. As we see every day, ladies and gentlemen, holding videoconference meetings with dozens of colleagues does not encourage the full consideration of each other's opinions. To this is added the digital divide that affects both natural and legal persons. Minister, on the other hand, I should like to welcome the moratorium on bankruptcies. As stated in the project, the conditions for bankruptcy must be the result of the covid-19 pandemic and its aftermath. This is a measure that we had supported in the Kern+10 because it is a real lifeline for all these companies. As stated in the impact assessment of the bill, it is a matter of extending the viability of businesses, which may help to maintain employment. Therefore, and primarily to support this measure, which we believe is fundamental, despite some vagueness and lack of pragmatism of certain measures, our group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u20	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Rohonyi for her support, despite all the relevant comments she has made and to which I think I have responded, both in committee and in this Chamber. In order not to prolong the debate, I propose that we move on to the next item on the agenda. You will decide, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u21	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u22	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1668/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1668/10) The bill has 81 articles. The draft law has 81 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u23	• 2 – Maxime Prévot cs (1668/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u24	• 4 – Maxime Prévot cs (1668/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u25	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u26	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sophie De Wit, Koen Metsu. The Committee on the Constitution and Institutional Renewal proposes to reject this proposal for revision. (1287/3) The Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal proposes that this proposal for revision be rejected. (1287/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u27	Madam President, I will do my best to produce a very detailed report. Four meetings were held and an additional exchange of views with the Minister of Justice. The Committee discussed the proposal on 1 and 14 July, on 18 November, on 2 and 8 December 2020. First, as is the case, we received the introductory statement by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the main proposer of the proposal which amends Article 150 of the Constitution. It explains that, inter alia, due to the complexity of the relevant court cases and the impact on the jury members, it is advisable that a terrorist crime should no longer be brought to justice by a jury, but by professional judges. All the groups have already expressed their views at the first meeting. So I am going to go into that a little more in depth, as the positions have remained virtually unchanged over time. On behalf of Ecolo-Green, Mrs Khattabi stressed that Ecolo-Green would like to amend Article 150 of the Constitution for facts on the subject of hate speech, but that she did not support the present proposal. It also notes that there does not appear to be a two-thirds majority and calls it a bad signal to those actors who have to prepare the trial in court if it turns out that Parliament does not agree with it. Mr Dewael calls for an early revision of Article 150 of the Constitution in line with the present proposal. Mr Briers of CD&V agrees. He is convinced that a People's Jury is less suitable to deal with such complex processes than a College of Judges. It also calls for a special regime for the treatment of terrorist offences. The PS, by the mouth of Khalil Aouasti, disagrees with the proposal, but calls for a reform of assists. The party wants to improve the functioning of the Court of Assists, so that it remains possible for such crimes to be dealt with by the Court of Assists. It also wants to take time to reflect on the evolution of the institution. Its representative, Mr Aouasti, regrets that the deadline is too short. On behalf of my party, I also supported an early examination of the proposal before us. We support the proposal, all the more so since we owe it to the victims and their families to carry out the process in an orderly manner. I will not repeat the arguments put forward by Mr Van Vaerenbergh. The PTB, through Nabil Boukili, does not like the proposal. Although Mr Boukili confirms that the terrorist attack process is very complex, this should not be an argument for abolishing the court of assassins for terrorism. It should be possible to organise such a process. He refers to the example of France. The sp.a, through Ben Segers, does agree with the proposal for an early revision of Article 150. Mr Segers said that every effort should be made to ensure that the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 were dealt with smoothly and effectively. Mr Bihet of the MR opposed the proposal. He says that the argument that an assistant court entails a great workload and considerable staffing needs also applies to a court of law, where there is a possibility of appeal in contrast to the Court of Assists. He also has questions about the status of the members of the Assemblies and he advocates a reflection exercise on that statute. Mrs Rohonyi of DéFI was not in favour of the proposal either. It considers that the reasons cited do not apply specifically to terrorism processes, but also to other processes. It would also like a reflection exercise on the revision of Article 150 of the Constitution in order to improve the functioning of the Assenhof. Mrs Soors called for the necessary attention and the link to the treatment of hate speech crimes. It wants to link this issue with the discussion of the correcting of the terrorism process. The N-VA and the Flemish interest consider that cow trade and wish to deal with proposals separately. The Flemish interest calls for immediate treatment. Mr Verherstraeten of CD&V does make a plea for agreement. His group is tabling an amendment to meet the link with press crime, among other things. Following the presentation of the positions of the various political groups at the meeting on 1 July, the meeting on 14 July discussed the arrangements for the work. The members of MR pointed out that there was still a need for hearings and for less haste. The members of the PS also point out that the debate on the proposal should not be dealt with on a whim, but reminds the applicant of the many preparatory work and hearings carried out in this and previous legislature. Ms Soors reiterated that it was not desirable to amend the Constitution on account of a single process. The Open Vld, CD&V, sp.a., Flemish Interest and N-VA groups support this, because of course the text is not about that one terrorism process. The Flemish Interest reiterates the urgency of the present proposal. As regards urgency, Mr Dewael is joining us. Mr Verherstraeten does not object if the dossier is postponed for the time being, so that an agreement can be reached on the decriminalisation of terrorist offences while maintaining the penalty. However, a clear and clear message must be sent to the Justice Department in good time. According to Mr Verherstraeten, that signal must be sent by September at the latest. However, the next meeting will not take place in September, but only on 18 November. The well-known positions of the political groups are repeated. There is, however, a discussion when the main applicant requests the vote on the proposal, as recorded on the committee's agenda. She receives the support of her group and of the Flemish Interest. The other parties support Mr Dewael's proposal to first hear the Minister of Justice. It will then be put to the vote. The Flemish Interest and the N-VA vote against, all other parties support the proposal. The PVDA abstains from voting. The exchange of views with the Minister of Justice will take place on 2 December. I am sure you will forgive me if I summarize the 20-page report on this subject. The Minister of Justice has re-examined all the advantages and disadvantages of the various scenarios. He does not express a personal opinion, but leaves it to Parliament to take an initiative. On my question, he confirms once again that there will be no draft from the government on this issue. On 8 December there will be a final committee meeting on the proposal. That meeting begins with the announcement that Mr Gabriels is withdrawing as co-host of the proposal. The positions are repeated again, with the nuance that Open Vld by Katja Gabriel's mouth indicates that the timing is no longer evident. There is no longer any intention to make any changes, referring to the risks involved for, for example, the rights of the defence. These should be avoided at all times. Finally, Mr Verherstraeten does not use the argument of lateness. He acknowledged that it was not too late to intervene, but he withdrew his amendment, as no two-thirds majority could be found for the proposal. Following the repetition of the positions by all political groups, the vote was then taken, with 12 Members voting against and five Members voting in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u28	Madam President, Mrs Pas, thank you very much for the detailed report on our work. Indeed, I have again used the Rules of Procedure in an ultimate attempt to present our proposal for a revision of the Constitution to plenary. We propose to revise the Constitution in such a way that in future all terrorist processes would be dealt with for special criminal chambers. Colleagues, 22 March is a date that no one will forget. Everyone remembers where he was back then. This was, of course, a tragic event for the victims and the next of kin. We, as legislators and legislators, have a great responsibility, primarily with regard to the victims, but also with regard to the next of kin and in a broader sense with regard to society as a whole. We must ensure that the upcoming process on the attacks is organised in a way that will be the least risk of error, the least risk of going wrong with that process. I would like to briefly refute the criticisms made by Mrs Pas as rapporteur. Firstly, with regard to timing. At the moment, the council is indeed arranging its work on this process. However, we have held hearings in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal in which all experts, including the federal prosecutor Van Leeuw and also the minister, reassured us that it is not too late. The final final date is the date of referral by the AI. That is a first argument that some people have raised in order not to approve this proposal. Secondly, according to some, a single process would be the reason why we would amend the Constitution. It is, of course, about all the terrorist processes. That could be about the Syrian fighters who would also appear in the future in a correctional chamber, so that they will also be punished with the penalties that apply today to assists. Of course, the focus at the moment is on the terrorist process of 22 March. For this process, of course, it is now or never. This proposal is about far-reaching simplification for the judiciary. Indeed, as the rapporteur has outlined, we did not go there on a night of ice. The rapporteur referred to the first committee session in July, but we have already had long discussions on this subject, across party boundaries, behind the scenes, in order to guide this proposal. Not just a constitutional revision, but also a revision of the procedure, a proposal from CD&V, so that we could proceed to the installation of criminal chambers, to guarantee the benefits that exist today in an assistance procedure in that new structure of a criminal chamber. Some say: you only talk about the cost. Of course, costs play a role. Organising such large assistive processes will obviously cost a great deal, but that is not the main issue for me. The main issue is the efficient operation and organisation of such a process. No less than 38,600 guilt questions will have to be answered by the jurors. The trial will take seven to nine months. Three times as many magistrates will be needed to manage that process. Three times as many jurors will be needed. Who the hell could sit on a jury for nine months? Whoever has a job, is self-employed, has a case, will be able to sit on a jury for that period? I am not talking about the great risk of procedural errors and the huge security operation involved. It can be simpler and more efficient. An assistive procedure is no longer adapted to today, especially for large processes. I said in committee that I am actually in favour of the complete abolition of the aid procedure. I found no support for this, but everyone with common sense who listened in committee to the arguments of the people we have heard... We have also heard the Minister of Justice. He has not expressed a personal opinion on this, but from the list of disadvantages he has listed, I understand that there are more disadvantages than benefits. I would ask the French colleagues to look at France. France took the lead, changed the assistance procedure as early as the 1980s, and only works with professionals to assess terrorism cases. Some people fear proceedings at the European Court of Human Rights, but why has France never been convicted, when it has been subject to an amended procedure since the 1980s? Colleagues, we are taking great risks. The image of the Justice Department is at stake. Of course, I do not doubt the unbridled commitment of all the magistrates, the staff and all those who will have to manage the process and deal with it with duty, but of course there are limits to what is possible. Hopefully we will not be confronted with this. It would be better to think again, ladies and gentlemen, and to approve that constitutional revision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u29	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this revision proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal for revision will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u30	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Lanjri, MM. Leysen and Vandeput.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u31	I refer to the written report, in view of the very full agenda. Nor do we know whether there will be an agreement and, if so, whether it will be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u32	Madam President, we will support this government initiative, which amends a number of laws relating to the Brexit in the light of changed circumstances. We had a number of comments during the discussions in committee. The Minister for Finance has treated them correctly and replied to them. From the opposition, we will be constructive in this. Despite the fact that, certainly in the case of the law of March 2020, we have nevertheless identified a missed opportunity, and that we have once again focused on inactivity rather than labour mobility, the present legislation is a tool that our companies will be able to use. It is not a blissful means, but it will support them, so we will take a positive approach to this initiative during the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u33	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u34	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1652/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1652/7) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u35	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u36	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Matheï and Mr Vermeersch. Do you wish to speak as rapporteur, Mr Vermeersch?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u37	Madam President, I see that Mr Matheï is equally absent. I will therefore refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u38	Madam Chair, I will make a brief comment on the provisions contained in this bill that strengthen the correct perception of tax and the fight against fraud. As you know, this is one of the fundamentals for Ecolo-Groen. The fight against tax evasion and the proper collection of taxes ensure that citizens who pay their taxes honestly have the assurance that all income is subject to tax in the same way as their own. I will stress the defensive measures against the courts that are included in the European Union list. These jurisdictions are non-cooperative. This is the blacklist of those who have unconvincing tax policies, who do not fight fraud optimally, and who do not play the game of information exchange. This provision makes it possible to tax profits in connection with an active construction in one of the countries on the list. What is interesting is to reverse the burden of proof, in particular to better implement various taxes including the Cayman tax. Nothing changes for those who have real activity. Those who engage in constructions and installations for the purpose of tax evasion or fraud will see that one step more is being taken to combat this type of construction. This gives the administration additional capacity. Of course, we can always go further. But I wanted to point out that this is a step in the right direction. I hope he will be followed by many others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u39	Madam President, I would urge the Minister to be present, as a draft law is now being discussed. In view of the fact that only a limited number of people are allowed in this Chamber, I know that this presence is not easy. However, we must also coordinate and organise the presence in our group. I would therefore like to ask for the Minister's presence in order to discuss this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u40	Mrs Pas, I absolutely understand your question. Minister Van Peteghem is competent. I am informed that Minister Vandenbroucke is in the House and may be present within a few moments. I see Minister Van Peteghem is now entering the conference room. Mr. Laaouej is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u41	Madam President, I would like to make three brief points about this bill. Last week, the majority tabled eight amendments to this bill at the last minute. Those amendments should respond to the destruction of the collaborative economy regime, following a destructive judgment of the Constitutional Court on 23 April 2020. We regret that these important amendments are once again being chased by Parliament without proper control by the Council of State. This constitutes an unlawful circumvention of the statutory control by the Council of State. In view of the destruction by the Constitutional Court, a legal review of the new regime by the Council of State appears necessary in order to ensure legal certainty. Mr Christian Leysen was curious at the committee meeting about the budgetary impact of the exemption from the transfer of corporate tax to bachelors. There was no reply from the Minister, or at least I have not yet seen a calculation, unless I have made a mistake, and we regret that. This exemption is also a textbook example of the Kafkaian nature of Belgian taxation. Apparently, tax legislation has become so complex that even specialists eventually lose themselves in it. We once again call on the government, as in the discussion of the policy letters, to work towards simplifying our taxation. The Minister understood our appeal in committee as a support of the Flemish Interest for his broad fiscal reform, but of course he was wrong about that. Contrary to what the purple-green parties in Parliament do day in and day out, Flemish interest does not call for an increase in taxes, but for a simplification and reduction of taxes. In the end, the Flemish interest differs fundamentally from this left-wing tax government. A structural tax reduction will give the necessary oxygen to our companies and people during the relance. As far as interest relief is concerned, we would nevertheless like to point out the retroactivity. Strictly legal, of course, there is no retroactivity. The Council of State has therefore made no comment on it. In practice, however, there will sometimes be retroactivity. For example, a company that has a financial year from 1 February 2020 to 31 January 2021 will be subject to the new regime retroactively for 11 out of 12 months, which we would have liked to have seen differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u42	Mr Van Hees is not currently present in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u43	Madam President, I will be brief. I always note with a number of Members enthusiasm when it comes to taxation. I hope that those Members will have the same enthusiasm when we will have to work on the resilience of our companies in 2021 by ensuring that there is a sound taxable basis on which the tax can be levied. We will support the draft, although we are moderately enthusiastic about the rule of excluding and branding certain countries once, in order to have a leverage for the future. This can happen once, but should not become a recurrent practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u44	Madam President, I too will speak very briefly about this draft law to which a number of technical adjustments have been added in order to put things in order, such as an exemption from the corporate tax on scientific research. This is an important measure, including in the field, so that scientific research, which is very important, can continue in a good way. The same applies to the adjustments to the interest relief restrictions following the comments we have received from Europe. I would like to mention two other things. Firstly, the provisions on the so-called defensive measure vis-à-vis jurisdictions included in the European list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. They are, after all, an important initiative or measure to step up the fight against shortcuts through these countries. The ultimate aim is to convince these countries to comply with the OECD recommendations and thus to allow fairer taxation. That is certainly something contained in the draft law. Secondly, the provisions of the collaborative economy or platform economy. As has already been said, the current regime, which applies until the end of the year, was set aside by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This brings the sharing economy aspect back to the 2016 regime. The problem is that the 2016 scheme is no longer on the verge of being partially adapted by the destroyed scheme. In order to put that right, articles have been introduced and measures taken, including the determination of the amount of taxable income with a deduction of costs and the obligations of the operators of such a platform economy. Those adjustments were necessary in order for those cases to be put in place and run from 2021 onwards, so that the system as it used to exist can be brought back into operation. That is an important provision for that sector. We shall therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u45	Madam President, I apologize for my late arrival in Parliament. At the moment the point about the Brexit started, I jumped directly on the bike, but then I wasn't fast enough to be here on time. However, it is an electric bike, but even that was apparently not enough to catch up with you. Mr Vermeersch, with regard to your comments, which you have of course already made in committee, I can say the following. There was indeed already an opinion of the Council of State on the provisions relating to the sharing economy. That had already been requested with regard to the bill of MP Tania De Jonge. That bill also included provisions relating to the sharing economy. All these are, of course, included in the amendment that will be tabled today. As explained in committee, this is about correcting the budgetary impact which is actually nil and non-existent. Madam President, then there was a very short question about retroactivity in the interest deduction. This follows logically from the decision of the European Council. It wants Member States to have implemented the countermeasures from 1 January 2021, so that they are applied in the same way everywhere. That is the answer, Madam President, to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u46	Minister, with respect to this bill, what is problematic is the first step, first of all, to grant professional discount exemptions to researchers with a bachelor's degree. This is a correction in view of what had been rejected in the past. However, it is important to go back a little bit to the very concept of dispensing professional prepayments. What is it all about? It is a measure launched around the years 2003-2005 for the first forms of professional discount exemption. Secondly, there has been an inflation of measures: more than ten different types of professional discount exemption (overtime, research and development, night work, maritime transport, etc.).). What are these professional discount exemptions? It is a strange beast, because it is ultimately the employer who collects the worker's tax to pay it to the tax, but who keeps a part for him. Why can the boss keep part of the occupational discount of his workers and not pay it to the tax authorities? It would be more logical to pay the entire tax, that is to say to the state, because the state has needs, which must be met. But if the option was that the state does not need it, why does not the worker's tax be refunded to the worker himself? That seems to me to be the logic! Of course, it is another view of society that, in order to turn the economy around, it is not for employers to give gifts, but perhaps to grant tax relief to the worker so that he can consume more. When a worker consumes more, it is known that it contributes to the recovery of the economy, while gifts to employers give rise to a boon effect. The employer is cashing in, possibly paying more dividends to its shareholders but without any guaranteed effect on economic recovery. This is a completely different conception of fiscal and economic policy. This is the fundamental criticism that can be made. All the more so since today we are reaching a record amount. We had the opportunity to discuss, during the budgetary debates with the Minister, the importance of these amounts, because all the exemptions from professional prepayments, this theft of taxes by the bosses, has now exceeded the EUR 3 billion. It's pretty catastrophic. In addition, there have been a lot of frauds on the part of employers, including specialized consultancy firms. The Court of Auditors has delivered an opinion on the matter. There are, for example, systematic frauds of making research and development what is not. There is also the question of exceeding the 100% exemption from the occupational allowance for a single worker while legally it is not permitted. This is a problem because there is another professional discount exemption under the program law which is calculated collectively, whereas it is individually that 100% cannot be exceeded. Finally, we come to a crazy situation in which the employer keeps, for a given worker, more than 100% of the occupational discount. It's illegal, but since deductions are collectivized, it's no longer possible to control. The Court of Auditors found that many research and development activities were not really in place. This is precisely within the framework of professional discount exemptions. But the tax authorities do not have the means to control this, especially since it is an element which is generally not controlled by the agents of the tax authorities, except in the case of targeted actions. In addition, how can a tax officer control whether it really is research and development? It was therefore decided that BELSPO would technically assist the tax authorities in determining whether it was a question of research and development. If only to advise the tax authorities, only one agent has been appointed, whereas only for research and development, the amount relating to the professional discount amounts to about EUR 1 billion. In addition, this agent who studied the history of art is not a specialist in the matter. Fraud is therefore working in turn in this area. These are the abuses that come about with these kinds of particularly harmful tax provisions. The second measure of this bill is the Commission's warning of Belgium with regard to the ATAD 1 Directive. The criticism relates to the fact that the ATAD Directive aims in particular at limiting excessive deductions of interest. This bill reduces this possibility for some real estate companies, but extends it to public-private partnerships. We are responding in some way to a warning from the Commission by further developing public-private partnerships, which, in my view, are instruments of loose privatisation in which, in general, the State takes the risks and the private profit. So this is not necessarily a very happy measure. I come to the third measure which seems to us to be generally good, if we do not go too much into detail. It is a defensive measure aimed at incorporating into Belgian legislation the European list of non-cooperative courts, tax havens for private individuals. The European list of tax havens is in addition to the two Belgian lists of tax havens. I call them that, but that is not how they are mentioned in the law. The two Belgian lists concern the exemption of dividends – i.e. definitively taxed income – and the obligation to report payments. The problem with this addition of the European list is the same as for the two Belgian lists. These are "emmental" lists where the holes are bigger than cheese; indeed, a whole series of tax havens which do not include all European tax havens. And why don't they find themselves there? Because establishing a list of tax havens is eminently political. However, NGOs have drawn up lists of the most formidable tax havens in terms of tax avoidance by multinationals. These include Member States of the European Union such as the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Malta and Belgium to a lesser extent. As Mr Piedboeuf points out, there are also Member States of the United States such as Delaware where most of the largest US multinationals are located. In addition, the future president is originally from Delaware, which is clearly not going to fix things. Not all of these tax havens are on these lists. It's very good to add a completely incomplete list to two totally incomplete lists, but that doesn't make it a complete list. This is all the more true since last October there was a very loud withdrawal from the European list, namely that of the Cayman Islands, which are considered by some to be the worst tax haven. The Cayman Islands was withdrawn in October 2020. This also raises the problem of the lack of staff, in FPS Finance cells for example, to control tax havens. The FPS Finance Tax Paradis Unit has four people to deal with billions of euros of payments each year. I am told that they do only a first sort and that after the files are referred to the other FPS Finance services. Indeed, but even within this limited framework, four people are not enough. There is no point in legislative changes unless we have the staff to implement them. This project also makes payments to these tax havens non-deductible unless the company can prove that it is a genuine transaction. Here, too, we can see that it is less strict than the unconditional exclusion advocated by Ecofin which defended the exclusion of a country that would be a tax haven from these possibilities of deduction. Here, we offer a loophole to companies that use these tax havens. This poses two problems. The first problem is once again the lack of FPS personnel. It takes time to control the evidence to the contrary provided by a company to use these tax havens. The second is the question of the strategy to be adopted with regard to tax havens. Is there a strategy of somewhat formal measures, such as certain exemptions or tax gifts that the former Minister of Finance De Croo had admitted, arguing that it was not possible to obtain such assistance if tax havens were used? It was finally very easy to escape the measure. To benefit from this, it was sufficient that it was a subsidiary other than the subsidiary of the company that benefited from the tax haven exemption. This is the soft version of the fight against tax havens. A more serious version would be a zero-tolerance policy towards tax havens. They must be penalized economically and financially. It was Ecofin's choice, which for once had taken a rather vigorous option, i.e. an unconditional exclusion from the use of these tax havens. Thus, the war on tax havens was truly declared to force those countries to pursue another policy. That was the European framework. Clearly, Belgium did not want to subscribe to it, despite the great promises set out in the government declaration, with regard to fair taxation and the fight against all the tax loopholes that multinationals benefit from. So we can recognize some progress in this last chapter of the bill, but it could have gone further. It is always difficult for a bill with various provisions to hold a general position. In plenary, however, we need to take a decision on the whole text. If drinking and eating are found there and some provisions are completely rejected, while others have positive but limited aspects, then the trend is towards abstaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u47	Madam President, I wanted to respond to Mr. Van Hees, from two points of view. First of all, it usually attacks the rich. However, it has allowed itself here to denigrate a finance official who would not be qualified to perform his supervisory function. I find this comment unpleasant. Secondly, with regard to the alleged "theft" of the prepayment paid by the worker, I would like to point out to him that the worker's tax declaration is not changed on the grounds that the employer must not pay the occupational prepayment. On the contrary, this measure gives the worker the feeling of financing his company which encourages research. That's pretty positive! You should even defend to the workers that withholding the discount allows us to develop employment and research in our country. This is therefore a message that is otherwise positive than that of telling that workers are being stolen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u48	Madam President, in order to react succinctly to Mr Piedboeuf's two remarks, I must make it clear that I have not denied anyone. Moreover, he was not a finance official – you may have misheard me, Mr. Piedboeuf – but a BELSPO official, who is the contact person to provide guidance and relay requests. He himself notes that he is alone in responding to this flow of information, even if, in my opinion, there is no more flow in relation to demand. And as far as its formation is concerned, indeed, it was an art historian who does not fall within the competence of research and development or taxation. But, on the limit, it doesn't matter. This is the question of hiring and it is positive that, in the public service, one can be hired with different degrees, even if it adds to the difficulty of responding to the demands of the tax authorities, in terms of both research and development and taxation. With regard to occupational discount exemptions, Mr Piedboeuf considered that the worker must be satisfied that the employer could legally "steal" part of his tax. Mr. Piedboeuf believes that from the moment this does not affect the worker's role warning-extract, it is no big deal. However, as I said to you, if you had listened to me, Mr Piedboeuf, I find it very serious that there is no impact on the warning-extract of role, since part of the tax on these workers who must go to the tax office does not go to the tax office. Why does this tax not go back to the workers so that they can pay less? There should not be a neutral effect on the warning-extract, but a reduction in the tax payable by the worker. These are two different logics. What about the first logic, namely the neoliberal theory of runoff, which consists of watering gift patterns so that it runs over the whole society that will benefit from it? The first step, the watering of the bosses, works well but the rest of the neoliberal theory of runoff works much less well. If we want to promote economic recovery, there is another way of doing it, and I come to the second logic. There is a need to increase workers' incomes, for example by reducing their taxes and paying the occupational discount exemption not to employers but to workers. So you will have a real revival. Indeed, increasing workers' incomes will increase consumption. And this consumption will have a real beneficial effect on the economy, while the theory of runoff is a boon effect that benefits the owners who take the gifts and give them back to the shareholders. This has no impact on the economy. The evidence is in the results of Swedish policy. It was an economic failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u49	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, I am afraid to reply because you were so positive at the end by saying that this was an avancée and perhaps you were thinking about abstaining. I've barely experienced that in the two months I've been here. However, I promise to reply as fully as possible, as always. The transfer of the company tax is indeed a concession to the employers, as Mr Piedboeuf rightly pointed out just now, because we are trying to support employment as much as possible. The proposal you are making is a purchasing power measure, which is of course also important, but this is not the subject. It is also quite clear in the text that this is a material error that must be corrected; whatever we do with it. The question of opportunity does not apply here. With regard to the definition of the PPS, I believe that the system does not change. We cannot talk about enlargement. The definition has not changed, so I do not think we should talk about broadening the scope of certain constructions. You also made a comment about a number of lists on which the real tax havens would not stand. The European Commission applies international standards for non-cooperative countries and, of course, also ensures that these international standards are applied to non-cooperative countries. So this isn't about tax havens like you're insinuating. You have already focused on the limited number of people in the control cell several times, including on the committee. This is, of course, a central service, which carries out the risk analysis, while the operational services do the work on the ground. They therefore carry out the actual checks. Of course, we guarantee all the necessary capacity. The capacity that exists today is also guaranteed for the future. Finally, I was very pleased to hear that you were still slightly positive. I'll take that message home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u50	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u51	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1683/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1683/4) The bill has 18 clauses. The draft law contains 18 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u52	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u53	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Zanchetta, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u54	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all convinced that this bill should be drafted. We all know examples where medical devices are traded in a non-standard manner and can pose a risk to the health of our patients. We agree in principle with the proposal and we will support it. However, I have a number of comments that I would like to share with you. In committee, I asked whether the standardisation of the CE marking would certainly be there. We all know the example of the mouth masks with a CE marking given somewhere in Italy. Other mouth masks were CE marked in southern Spain. It is not yet clear whether this has all been done in the same way and whether the same standards have been applied. In reply to my question, you said that Europe is committed to standardising the CE marking. That remains a focus for me. This is a matter of trust with patients as well as with care providers. When using those CE marked medical devices, they must be sure that the standard procedures have been followed and that the standard conditions have been met. I have another concern. You indicate in the text that this is a directive that must be implantable both for SMEs and for large companies. We can only hope that it is. There too, the covid crisis has taught us a great deal. We have become far too dependent on Asia for the supply, marketing and production of medicines and medical devices. Europe has too low production and too low independence in it. In your coalition agreement, you have included that you will promote that local production. In the last two months you have made your move and in the policy papers I have seen very few concrete steps in this area. Nor can I see in this text that some steps have been taken to ensure that our SMEs, which also produce medical devices here, are competitive. I referred to it in committee. It is indeed a matter of finance, but for VAT, I would like to remind you that a Flemish or Belgian producer of mouth masks has a competitive handicap vis-à-vis a producer in Asia who imports mouth masks into our country. That is a point of interest that could certainly have been taken. As far as the traceability of implants is concerned, the implant card, which is also proposed by Europe, is used in the draft law. We have proposed an amendment to extend it: in addition to the implant card, we also want to provide a unique barcode for the implants. However, the government has not accepted this, which I find very regrettable. You refer to the registration of the FAGG, which dates back to 2009, but I would like to point out that this is really reported to us by the field. Mr Gijbels has tabled the amendment on implants for dental use. It is still in practice on a daily basis and is well aware that the registration of implants in dental practice is really not enough. It is a pity that you have not accepted our outstretched hand and that you will not use a unique barcode for medical devices or dental tools. You say that you do not want to be stricter than the European Union, but our patients deserve the best care and the greatest possible assurance that when they receive an implant, which can always be followed up and that it is recorded in a medical or dental file. However, you have made a different choice. It is also a pity that the text does not mention the obligations of producers, because medical devices are sometimes reimbursed. Therefore, if a producer makes an application for reimbursement, an application for the marketing of a particular medical device, it seems to me that there should also be a certain obligation on the part of that producer with regard to the company and that the security of supply should be there. That could have been enforced in this text, but it was not included. It is a step in the right direction, as I said. We'll support this. I would also like to comment on the debate we had on the language in which the package leaflets are delivered. When it comes to care providers and scientists, we do indeed believe that it should be possible for the package leaflet to be included in English and that the care provider, if he considers it appropriate, can request a translation. Above all, we do not want to delay rapid scientific procedures by translating package leaflets. As far as the citizens are concerned, however, I think you should include a very special passage, in particular that a package leaflet may be in one of the three national languages or in English, because it may be more useful for some patients to obtain the information in English. Minister, we all know that integration is extremely important. Knowledge of our language is very important. In the policy we are pursuing, we must be consistent in this. A package leaflet in the three national languages should be sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. We know that, in the face of the major scandals that have erupted on breast implants in particular, in the face of technological innovation, which is good news, but which must be controlled and controlled, also in the face of increasing competition, Europe has taken steps, some time ago, to develop a legal arsenal that will guarantee consumer protection, public health safety, but also accessibility to innovation. Today, it is up to us to transpose this European directive into our legislation. Various measures will be taken today to enable the implementation of this new European regulation in our country. This is obviously a very important project, which our group will support as it did in committee. This project offers us a more demanding regulation of medical devices, to ensure the quality and safety of those who will have to use them, and thus better protection of the consumer – the patient, in this case – the users. It also guarantees the desire to innovate and produce new technologies that will better meet the needs of patients. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why we will unanimously support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u56	Madam President, this draft law aims to be able to apply European regulations on the quality and traceability of implants. That is a good thing, which the Flemish Interest certainly supports. The European regulations were initially due to enter into force in May 2020, but were postponed for one year due, among other reasons, to corona. That was also one of the reasons for the sector, namely that everything should go far too quickly. That year was partly due to this sigh, although the sector asked for a two to three-year delay in order to adapt and put everything on track and ensure continuity. It has now been postponed by one year because of circumstances, which makes it clear that it could have been postponed for another or two years without difficulty. Too bad they didn't respond. Also with individual packaging and numbering of implants there appears to be a practical and above all ecological problem. If even the smallest osteosynthesis screw or metal pin has to be packed and encoded, it seems to us to cause a major waste problem. The sector also fears that the companies producing implants may not agree with the expensive procedures for implants that have already proved their value and safety. Therefore, in their daily practices, they are already affected by the conditions imposed, some companies having dropped the CE marking of implants. My colleague has already mentioned the CE marking. We have indeed seen during the corona crisis, including with the mouth masks, what can happen to the CE quality mark if the pressure becomes too high. The Central Traceability Register will have to be completed. In the meantime, this is in full swing, which is a good thing. In order to facilitate a smooth transition from the Directives to the Regulations, a number of transitional provisions are provided for. Certain devices bearing a certificate issued in accordance with the Directives may be placed on the market until 27 May 2024 and made available on the market until 27 May 2025. During the transitional period, products certified in accordance with the Directives and products certified in accordance with the Regulations may co-exist on the market. In general, no requirements of the Directives have been deleted, but some new requirements have been added to the Regulation. Compared to the existing Directives, the focus in the new Regulation is more on a life-cycle approach to safety, supported by clinical data. These changes may affect the availability of medical devices for healthcare institutions. For example, manufacturers may decide to stop the production of certain medical devices. It is also possible that certain medical devices, for which a certificate was not obtained in time, may be temporarily unavailable. I don't think that's a good prospect for the patients. Nor is there any mechanism for avoiding such a thing, which is a missed opportunity. As far as language requirements are concerned, I would argue in favour of sticking to the three national languages. If you have the choice of three national languages, it should certainly be enough and English should be left out of the question. We have had more than 100 years of language struggles against the battle against painting, and we certainly do not want to replace them now for a fight against englishment. We have put the amendments we tabled in committee to the vote again. Finally, we feel that there is very often a reference to the King to determine or determine certain matters. There is 236 times a task assigned to the King, which is a great deal. That human being is well paid for that, but still. Apart from this joke, we know that in practice it means that the minister or government decides what happens, which places a lot of responsibility and power on that government. We certainly understand that it is not possible to restart the whole procedure before every comma change, but we hope that you will not betray Parliament's confidence. As in the committee, we will support this bill here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u57	Madam President, I will be brief. Minister, in our view, the bill is positive because it provides a series of safeguards for patient safety and for ensuring the quality of the medical devices that will be used. We also support the role of AFMPS vis-à-vis manufacturers to ensure safety and, of course, the penalties for companies that do not comply with the rules and would eventually play with patient safety. In addition to the safety of medical devices, in our view, it would also be interesting not to lose sight of financial accessibility, because it is often one of the bad surprises out of the hospital. Thus, an implant can be overcosted. So some of these devices are insufficiently reimbursed and sometimes their price also prevents people from having them. This is a reflection that we had to bring to bear. I would add that section 93 provides that a non-compliant company could use the financial transaction system. It goes without saying that we are opposed to this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at first sight this is a very technical draft, which, of course, is a key element of a European regulation. We do not have a great deal of room for manoeuvre in this area, but it is not bad that things are regulated at European level. To be honest, I have learned a great deal from the relevant comments and questions made by the majority and the opposition during the debate. I do not follow a number of amendments. Let me quickly repeat a few points, even though we had a good debate in committee. Mrs Depoorter, you mentioned what I said in committee about the CE marking, namely that we are committed to ensuring that the European approach does indeed ensure the necessary coordination. I agree with you that we should look at this critically and not accept it as a sign, but we are still working on a European scheme, not only in this context, but also in many others, assuming that such certification will work on the basis of mutual trust and recognition. You are right that it is not evident and that it must be followed up. You have made an economic but also socially important remark about stimulating local production. I want to look at this right away at the level of Europe. In view of the single market in Europe, we cannot discriminate positively against our own SMEs vis-à-vis SMEs from other countries. We must, of course, have an economic policy and a research policy which supports our economic development, that is to say, SMEs and other companies. We certainly have to do that. The pact with the pharmaceutical industry that we want to work on and that we will be able to discuss in due course must not only help patients in Belgium, but also enable our companies to develop well, thanks to measures that are not discriminatory for companies from other countries. That is the first point that I would like to add to the debate. In any case, I believe that we really need to pursue a policy on a European scale with a sufficient degree of autonomy for us in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Personally, I do not think we should approach this unilaterally, for our pharmaceutical sector, for example, has an interest in an open world market. Our country is also truly a world exporter of pharmaceuticals; so we do have an interest in an international order in which pharmaceutical products can also be traded worldwide. In Europe, however, we do indeed have to provide our strategic autonomy. This has indeed not been mentioned in connection with the draft, but it is an important objective of the European Union within the framework of the so-called European Health Union and the so-called pharmaceutical strategy, the pharmaceutical strategy, and I apologise for English. With the federal government, we'll definitely go along with that. If Europe wants to create strategic autonomy, I think that is good and ultimately helps our industry and businesses. In a European single market, we must also do everything possible to support our own local production. On the implant card, I will repeat what I said in the debate at the committee meeting. The sector has been consulted on this for many years and the concept of the Central Traceability Register has been developed and implemented. This will be based on the European code, but in the meantime, the central traceability register will work with a RIZIV code. It will enter into force on 1 May, in an initial phase for ten implants. On the basis of the consultation, my administration proposes to roll that out first, without compromising it with a new obligation on the basis of new legislation. It means we're working on traceability from manufacturer to patient. I also discussed the use of languages at the committee meeting. We are dealing here with a European market in which notified bodies and firms from different European countries operate in Belgium, both for production and for clinical research. The use of English, which is the widely accepted language in the scientific world, is therefore often the language used. However, companies and other professionals may always ask for the use of one of the three national languages. To the citizen and the patient is communicated in the language he or she prefers. The package leaflet was mentioned. I have to admit that I am not sure that we are talking about the package leaflet here. We are talking about what happens in the context of information flow in clinical trials and so on. I share the opinion of a number of Members that we should look at this draft, which is technical, from the angle of protecting patients' interests and public health. The design is a step forward. It was also necessary to take that step. We're not uncritical. The design is undoubtedly not the perfection. However, it is an important step forward, and we are doing what results from a European regulation, which we cannot avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u59	Thank you, Minister, because you will be somewhat countering the engulation and using the terms in Dutch. I would like to point out, however, that the pharmaceutical industry is doing well in the field of research and development in our country. What is the problem, however? That's why we're moving to Asia for production. What did we see during the covid crisis? Many raw materials are manufactured and processed in Asia into finished products used in the medical sector. The reason why this is done lies only with the very high energy costs here. We will therefore have to have a very broad discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u60	Mr Minister, I would like to come back to the language. It may be that the language of instruction in the medical and clinical world is English, but that does not mean that one can respect the language of the country in which one wants to deliver one's product. I don't see why things should be in English. You say that the CE marking is based on trust. That is obvious, because it is the companies themselves who say about their own product that they can be CE-labelled, even if they have to meet certain conditions. Again, when checking the mouth masks at customs, we also saw that the CE label rules were not always faithfully followed. Trust may be nice, but certainly about implants there has to be control. On trust alone one does not always get that far. I hope that you will take that comment with you and that control will be stepped up or at least maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u61	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u62	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1534/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1534/4) The bill has 113 articles. The draft law has 113 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u63	• 6 p.m. Dominic Sneppe cs (1534/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u64	• 8 • Dominic Sneppe cs (1534/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u65	• 10 p.m. Dominic Sneppe cs (1534/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u66	• 12 • Dominic Sneppe cs (1534/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u68	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Karin Jiroflée, Laurence Zanchetta, Daniel Bacquelaine, Laurence H annoyée, Nawal Farih, Robby De Caluwé, Barbara Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will present an oral report as we dealt with this bill yesterday, as a matter of urgency, in the Committee on Health. I will try to be as brief as possible but as exhaustive as possible before giving you the floor for the debates. It was Ms Jiroflée who commented on this bill and, in the introduction, highlighted the important efforts made by the population in recent weeks, as we all know, to bring down the covid's figures sharply. Unfortunately, we also know that despite these efforts, we have to see figures that are still worrying and even slightly rising yesterday. The situation is worrying and therefore requires our full attention. Ms Jiroflée said that positive developments should also be seen, including vaccination. She recalls that our country can prepare for a vaccination campaign expected at the beginning of the year. Another positive signal is the new screening strategy, an extensive strategy that also includes rapid antigenic tests that quickly determine whether or not a patient with symptoms is infected with coronavirus. The purpose of this bill is therefore to establish a legal framework for the use of these rapid antigenic tests. Ms Jirofée pointed out that, in order to ensure the required flexibility, several provisions of the proposal provided for the possibility of amending the legal framework by means of royal decrees. This will allow for a greater role for care providers, particularly pharmacists. This bill also covers the implementation of the vaccination campaign. It places particular emphasis on the recording of vaccination data. We then started the discussion. Overall, it can be noted that the text was well received by members. This legislation allows the King to involve more players in the use of rapid tests, especially pharmacists. Currently, pharmacist representatives indicate that 40% of pharmacists are not ready for quick testing at their premises. If necessary, pharmacists may be more involved by means of royal orders when they are ready. Various critical opinions have been expressed on several occasions by various members of the Health Commission, including on the timing of the bill for some. Several members were astonished and regretted that this provision came so late especially in relation to neighbouring countries. Some believe that starting the tests more quickly might have allowed a second wave to be less strong. The exclusion of family pharmacists was also highlighted. Some members regretted the temporary exclusion of the family pharmacist. Several members also felt that sanctions were too severe for pharmacists who would sell quick tests. Various issues were raised. It was asked whether the new guidelines would not compromise existing pilot projects in the area of rapid testing. It was asked why the measures were not settled by means of a cooperation agreement, as was the case with the Sciensano databases for monitoring contacts, as some parliamentarians felt that the route was wrong and that this could undermine the citizen's confidence in the vaccination campaign. The Minister of Health explained that a procedure through a cooperation agreement would be too long and that the need today was to table an urgent bill. A cooperation agreement would probably not be ready until the end of February. With regard to pharmacists, he said that it was necessary to be sufficiently strict. While most actually have a separate room, many cannot yet manage the different flows of infected and uninfected people. In addition, the Minister's first priority is collective immunization, i.e., in large groups rather than individuals. This can be better organized in large centres. The consultation will continue – he said – with pharmacists. Finally, the Minister indicated that the penalties provided for in the bill are conventional penalties. Ms Depoorter tabled five amendments. Amendments Nos 1 to 3 are intended to allow the offices to distribute rapid tests as well. End users who wish to do so will be able to obtain a test from the authorized official outside the refund conditions, which must then be carried out on site by the pharmacist. In its Amendment No 4, Mrs Depoorter called for a coordinating doctor and a coordinating pharmacist to be provided for in the infrastructure where large groups of people would be vaccinated. In her view, this addition is necessary because of pharmacists' experience in vaccine conservation. As for Amendment No 5, he requested that each vial of vaccine for injection be provided with a single bar code. All the amendments were put to the vote and rejected. The whole bill was adopted unanimously and the PTB group abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal to regulate the framework for antigen testing and the registration of covid vaccination deserves particular attention. Finally, we have been waiting months for this, for our citizens, but also for us, Members of Parliament. The first time I talked about quick tests here was in April, we're x-number of months ahead and now there's a bill. So that is absolutely positive news. This had to be worked on. However, it is a little unfortunate that we have missed the opportunity to do so in a constructive way, to do so in an open way and, above all, to work it out with the sector. If one has time from April to December, the time and opportunity was sure. With regard to the rapid tests, the government opts for a closed circuit, whereby the government is responsible for distribution activities and where only large distributors or the government itself are allowed to distribute those rapid tests. The rapid tests are prohibited in the pharmacy. I find that very special. Actually, the government does two things. She's gonna regulate the market herself. I've asked several times why the pharmacy can't sell those quick tests. I didn't get an answer to that. My conclusion is that this government is more red than blue. If a government itself is going to market and sell a test and it is going to ban dealers, because it is going to ban pharmacists from selling it, then I wonder where the Liberal and Christian Democrat colleagues were when that was decided. We need to stop at this point. The pharmacist is the supplier of medicines and medical raw materials, is a trusted person for the patient, but also for the doctor and the home-care centre to which he supplies. This pharmacist is now being abducted by a closed circuit, where the tests are not allowed to be sold. That's a totalitarian market. I can imagine that PVDA's colleague welcomes that and I can understand it from Minister Vandenbroucke, but not from the other parties. I can't explain that. You might. You may refer to a possible scarcity, but there is no shortage. There's a massive production. I have not found a scientific argument, nor have you been able to give me. Lack of registration? You all know that the pharmacists register almost every sale in the pharmacy on the shared pharmaceutical file. In our country, 9.5 million people have a shared pharmaceutical file, so registration is not a problem. The referral to the doctor cannot be a problem either, because that is what a pharmacist does when it is needed. The RAG communicated the opinion on the rapid testing to be carried out on 18 August. At that time, indeed, the chairman of the task force said that it was still a little too early to incorporate these pharmacies, but 18 August has been behind us for several months. However, in November, you adopted a legislative proposal proposing the extension of the number of care providers to take samples. You do realize that more testing is needed and that more people need to be able to test. Among other things, as ironic as it may be, you have given the pharmacists permission to carry out tests. I do not think that can be reconciled with today's decision, where the pharmacist is not allowed to sell that test. That's incomprehensible. You will still have to start consulting pharmacists on a new multiannual plan, but the present bill stipulates that the reading of the test by the pharmacist or by the dentists who have been trained to be able to take samples should be carried out under supervision. We are talking about two stripes. You doubt that scientifically trained people can interpret those two indents and that they would have the scientific insight to refer those patients to the doctor when there are other signals. As the colleague said, 40% of pharmacists are not ready, but 60% are. We are at a time when the positivity ratio in our country is still too high. We are not getting to the limits that the WHO is imposing on us. We're staying too high. I still don't know the reasons and I don't think you can say it either. The pharmacists themselves have said that they can be an added value in the testing strategy, that they are willing to cooperate with the government. However, you did not contact them until the day the text was finished. There was really nothing more to be done about it. The text was tabled. You are now referring to the royal decisions to which you will make adjustments, which will be discussed within the government, outside the parliamentary debate. The N-VA believes that the consumer should have the right to buy a quick test when he or she needs it, when he or she considers that this rapid test should be carried out for personal reasons. That can be taken perfectly in the pharmacy under protocol. This can be registered and referred to the general practitioner. After all, the house pharmacist also knows the patient's GP. They have a direct line. What will happen today? You can order quick tests from the computer in the Netherlands, in China, anywhere. The next day, they're in the mailbox. Then there will be no guidance from the patients. Then there will be no registration. Then there will be no referral to the doctor. I have one more question. I asked you the same question yesterday in committee, Minister. The RAG gave that opinion on 18 August. You are right to say that you only had two months to prepare this text. What's the deal now? Didn't you get any information from your predecessors? Was the transition of information so difficult, which is very necessary in the event of a pandemic? Or didn't that information happen in August and September? The text clearly describes the sentence. A pharmacist who sells tests can get 15 days to a year in prison. This is for a 16 euro test that will not threaten public health. The pharmacist will be checked by a drone at his Christmasdis and he can expect an invasion of the health inspector you have recruited to see if he hasn't sold a test after all. You'd be talking less of a police state anyway. This is really out of proportion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u72	I retabled the amendments I tabled yesterday. Think again about this and let us correct this and ensure that both our patients and pharmacists and primary care can participate in the test strategy and ensure that we tackle the crisis. We're all waiting for the vaccination strategy. It's our hope for the return to a normal life, to a spontaneous hug. We all know that it will not be obvious and that it will not be so soon, just as this text has been waiting for a very long time. However, we are taking a step further. The vaccination campaign will be a huge challenge, we all know that. Everyone agrees that we need to move forward and make sure that the vaccines come to our patients and that we can evolve into a normal life. It is a coincidence that it is all about pharmacists today, but here too I see only a small mention of the pharmacist. That is, of course, very unfortunate, because we are working on a new vaccine and quality control is extremely important. We are paying millions of euros for these vaccines and putting all our hopes on them. The thawing of these vaccines should be done according to a standard protocol and the same applies to the application and storage of the vaccine until the injection. You need a pharmacist for that, don't you? Isn't that medical prep? That is precisely the role of a pharmacist. Apparently, you have so far focused mainly on the first phase, but also the second and the third are coming. You say that the vaccines are delivered in the first phase by the hospital pharmacist to the vaccination villages and the residential care centers. If the vaccine has been delivered to a residential care centre, responsibility will be transferred to the coordinating doctor. Well, there's a mistake in thinking there. After all, it cannot be the intention that the doctor should supervise the thawing and reclining of the medicine, i.e. medical preparation. We need a pharmacist for this because it has not only expertise, but is also trained for this. He knows what to do and what to do. Another part of this plan is to register the vaccine. I will come back later on in the way of registration, but you clearly said here that the pharmacist can register under supervision. This also shows a lack of respect for people who do nothing but register what medication which patient is taking day in, day out. They seek interactions, do the medication review and ensure compliance. So this could have been put in a different way. Also the follow-up of the registration is not complete. You indicate that you will register on Vaccinenet. As a Flemish party, we are absolutely in favour of this, because that works well. It is also common practice for our general practitioners to work with it and the pharmacists can read it, but I have heard a number of rumours in committee that concern me about how you will be explained in Wallonia. But that's your job, I'll say. Registration alone in Vaccinenet will not be sufficient. Since we are working with a whole new vaccine, since we are giving different vaccines to different groups of people, a registration in the shared pharmaceutical file and the global medical file....................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, we are going to have to ensure that people go for the second shot, the reboost, at the right time. For Pfizer vaccine, this is after 21 days and for AstraZeneca after 28 days. That needs to be followed very closely. We are also going to have to ensure that patients receive the right second injection, so that they receive the same vaccine, and that it is followed when the vaccine has to be repeated, after a year or a few years. That needs to be followed up. We also tabled an amendment on this subject yesterday, which we will retable today, to provide each vial, each vial, with a unique barcode. It's kind of the same story as what I just said, but it goes much further. After all, we are working with a brand-new vaccine that has never been used as a vaccine in humans. There is indeed scientific experience in cancer therapies, but it is brand new. The most important thing in science is data and the follow-up of that data. You say you will register the lottery numbers, but almost half of Flanders can receive the same lottery number; hence the unique barcode, which follows the bottle from the producer to the patient and also years later, because it remains in the file, is an absolute added value. When we talk about the trust of our patients in this new vaccine, I believe that this can count. We have heard today the good news that the EEA would be sitting together on 21 December to approve the Pfizer vaccine. So it looks good. It seems that we will be able to start vaccination on 5 January, once the syringes and the like have arrived. But it is very short notice, Minister, to have to approve this bill that we received on Friday in the mailbox. I hope, together with you, that everything will be all right and that we will not have to say here too that foresight was a necessity. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to reconsider the amendment on the unique barcode.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is long overdue and is co-signed by my colleague Laurence Zanchetta on behalf of our group. It defines – finally, some will say – the use and reimbursement of antigenic tests. By this law, we are deploying the new testing strategy that is indispensable; we all know that. Testing is a fundamental tool to combat the spread of the virus. Yes, we are talking about a use in a closed environment at present; but pharmacists could be an important part of this strategy in the future. The door is not closed, as indicated in the commission. Discussions are under way and the door is open to consider in the future a useful and necessary collaboration in this testing policy, but also vaccination. This text is also the legal basis for the registration of vaccines. It is the new stone in the vaccination plan building that is gradually being built. The implementation of this plan is soon to begin. It is an essential foundation for ensuring medical follow-up, monitoring the immunization of the population and estimating its impact on the evolution of the epidemic. This proposal therefore makes it possible to take an additional and essential step in our testing strategy and an additional and equally essential step in our vaccination strategy. It's a responsibility. Some felt that it was too late. It's not about whether it's coming too late or too early: it's coming now. It comes with the will to move forward, to continue the fight because it is far from over. Some, some time ago, praised the strategies of Sweden, the Netherlands and Germany. What this epidemic tells us is that we must remain modest and humble and certainly not judge according to what is happening elsewhere, thinking that everything is simple. No, nothing's simple. The truth of a day is not absolute truth. That is what we need to know as politicians. But that is our truth today, and that is what we will have to say earlier by voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u74	Mr President, as my fellow Members have said, this legislative proposal is unfortunately late. While our neighbouring countries already in September and October allowed rapid antigen tests and used them on a large scale, nothing was done in Belgium. In the meantime, as we are used to in this crisis, the measures will come months later. In September, the KB ended that forbade rapid antigen tests and self-tests. When I asked a question about this at the end of September, the answer was still that it had to be considered and studied. The Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Italy and England are already using these tests. Looking over the wall would have saved us a lot of time and additional patients. The second wave might not have come or maybe we could have kept it smaller. So it really matters, Mr Rigot, whether or not the bill is too late, but well, as a Flemish saying is: better late than never. Let me ask why the rapid antigen tests and self-tests were not taken earlier. In committee, there was no real answer to that. A specific framework should be created for rapid antigen tests and self-testing. The self-test is, on the one hand, prohibited, albeit for the time being, and, on the other hand, the King will regulate the proper conditions and conditions for the tests to be carried out. That is not really clear, in my opinion. Another contradiction is that, on the one hand, the pharmacists should not deliver rapid antigen tests, on the other hand, they can be switched on for the purchase. That's all very bizarre. Moreover, if they dare to sell a test, they can be punished disproportionately. However, the large fines and heavy prison sentences are simply there, as a formality, or for the shock effect. No wonder our legal system fails if the penalty is funny. As far as vaccination is concerned, it is not very clear to us who can and will put the syringe. A doctor or nurse may delegate, that's what it says, but to whom? We must be careful not to create the same unclear scenario as in the Bill No. 1618. I therefore hope that it will be clarified in an RB. There's the King again. Since this is a legislative proposal that should have been adopted here in the hemisphere for some time, we will, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a co-signator of this proposal, because I believe that it represents a step forward in the fight against coronavirus, particularly in terms of the extension of the extremely important testing strategy, thanks to antigenic tests. In a way, it is the launch of the vaccination campaign, to the extent that it provides for the way in which the data will be recorded – which is obviously indispensable. With regard to the criticisms made here and there, I concede that a bill is rarely perfect. As such, I often quote a Nobel Prize laureate in medicine, Albert Claude, who said: "The best way to prevent a project from succeeding is to demand that it be perfect." No doubt improvements are possible. Moreover, thanks to the possibility of making a royal order under Article 3, the scheme provides for the improvement of the mechanism after consultation with the pharmaceutical sector. This is a step forward in the testing strategy, since the time between the time of the test and the result is decisive, particularly in the communities. Indeed, the ideal is that everyone receives the result at the same time. However, we know that it is sometimes difficult to obtain this concomitance in the PCR chain. In this case, we have an opportunity to move more effectively, particularly in communities. This aspect seems to me to be positive from the point of view of the fight against contamination. It is also a way of relieving the PCR chain, which can sometimes be energized. I'm coming to the role of the pharmacist. The text provides that the latter may take the sample and perform the test technically, but cannot distribute it. I wonder a little about this paradox, as I mentioned in committee. In any case, I believe that consultation with the sector should continue and that, if there is a positive outcome, adjustments can be made. Indeed, we cannot impose a forced march on the pharmaceutical sector, which itself considers that it is not necessarily ready to enter into the general functioning of this testing strategy. Article 3, as I said, allows for an order to be made that will reflect the outcome of this consultation with the pharmaceutical sector. On the other hand, I understand that some people are surprised that the interpretation of the test can only be carried out by other actors under medical responsibility. There are four stages: distribution, sampling, technical testing and interpretation of the test. The latter is a diagnostic act that involves responsibility. Someone has to take this responsibility. Responsibility for interpretation is a medical responsibility. There is no doubt about that. In particular: what to do with the test result? What can I say to the patient? What can be said to the patient in relation to the patient's surroundings? All this is part of the medical responsibility on an interpretation of the test. It seems to me important that this responsibility be assumed by a physician or a medical specialist in clinical biology. It seems to me that it was good to clarify this aspect of things. Finally, as far as vaccination is concerned, it is obviously important to provide for the recording of data, while at the same time having a very high level of attention to privacy protection. That seems necessary to me. The way in which vaccination will evolve over time requires an analysis of the data collected gradually from an epidemiological point of view, but also with a measure of the effectiveness of this campaign, and in particular of the rate of adherence to vaccination. At some point, depending on the evolution of this rate of accession, it will probably be necessary to take measures as to the information, the pedagogy used, etc. This is really an important step in relation to this vaccination, which we are all waiting for, which is necessary to overcome this epidemic. As I have already said, I would like to repeat today: this vaccination must be accompanied by taking into account the necessary proximity with the various health actors, if we are to achieve a high rate of membership in the population. That really seems essential to me. Involvement in the organisation of local authorities is, in my view, essential. There is also the involvement of practitioners and health actors who are close to patients who will be vaccinated. We must try to avoid a kind of complete anonymization of the campaign with places sometimes alien to the environment of people, with notions of counterproductive distance. So we really need to look at how local actors will be involved in this vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u76	Mr President, the legislative proposal we are discussing is divided into two parts. The first part concerns the framing of rapid antigen tests. The second part deals with the registration of vaccination. Firstly, in connection with the rapid tests. The tests are fast but their application in our country is very slow. All neighbouring countries have been using rapid tests since October at the latest. So we didn't use them in the second wave. Surely that's a symptom of our failing test strategy. After all, we should not forget that we had to let go of the testing of asymptomatic patients, because the PCR tests could not be followed. Quick tests could really have contributed to limiting the second wave. Several colleagues raised the question of why this did not get on the agenda more quickly. It is a symptom of how we deal with the crisis in Belgium. We have many consultative bodies, there are many meetings, but there are few effective policies. Thus, although the opinion of the RAG was there on 12 October and stated that it is no longer necessary to repeat a PCR test if the rapid test is negative, the framework is not made real until 14 December. The RAG had already issued opinions on the use of these rapid tests in April and August. At that time, however, it was argued that if the rapid test was negative, this had to be confirmed with a PCR test. Given that framework, it could of course have happened much faster. Then I come to the provisions that are being made here. The pharmacists are provisionally excluded. That is an effective and regrettable matter. They waited so long, why couldn't they be involved? I think of the fact that they are close to the citizen. There are thousands of contact points. The pharmacists, who are ready, could possibly have been involved in carrying out the tests. They could also have vouched, in a protocoled manner, for interpreting the results and possibly referring them to a doctor. We can trust the pharmacists to do so. It's a missed opportunity not to involve them, since our testing strategy isn't about to. The tests will therefore only be interpreted and prescribed by doctors. People will not be allowed to do self-tests either. I'll follow the government in that. When someone does that test alone at home, the decrease may not happen properly. In addition, how will the person concerned interpret the test? There is therefore a need for caution. There is also a maximum price and the refund conditions are fixed. Of course, the results must also be recorded in order to initiate further follow-up via contact detection. The advantage of the rapid tests is that we quickly have a possible positive diagnosis, allowing us to isolate a patient more quickly and monitor the virus. However, there are also dangers in the use of the rapid tests. I am referring specifically to the possible pressure on employees. In the meantime, rapid tests are being carried out, because the reality is getting us quite a lot of work done by occupational health services. I have heard that they are sometimes used in a positive way. For example, a person who develops symptoms on the workplace can quickly do a quick test and be isolated quickly, just like his contacts. I've also been given testimonials about quick tests used to put pressure on patients. There's an example of a worker who has to go into quarantine for seven days because his wife tested positive. At the end of the quarantine, his son has also experienced symptoms and the quarantine must be extended, after which he is contacted by the company. The person in question is asked to come to the company gate where a quick test will be carried out and if the quick test is negative, he could still come to work. Of course, that is absolutely not what needs to be done. If someone can still develop the symptoms, it is important to apply the quarantine. After all, someone can test negative today but positive tomorrow. In this sense, Minister, we have tabled an amendment. You have noted that such matters should not all be included in the law. However, the law should also be used to address problems that arise on the ground. That is why we have tabled an amendment which reads as follows and I shall read it in French: We propose to add a paragraph that provides that rapid antigenic tests cannot be used by the internal/external service for prevention and protection at work in order to shorten the duration of quarantine prescribed by a physician to a patient. We see that there is enormous pressure on people. Occupational medicine wants to challenge quarantine certificates issued by general practitioners to ensure that people return to work faster. This is obviously a danger to public health, both for the patient and for potential other people who may be infected. Quarantine enforcement is really important, especially since it has been decided to keep many companies open. As regards the application of quarantine measures, I have already noted how employers sometimes exert pressure on workers not to quarantine after a rapid antigen test that is negative. On the other hand, some workers do not want quarantine because, for example, they do not receive a guaranteed wage as in the case of illness and have to fall back on technical unemployment, which is a serious loss of wages. I would therefore like to call once again for our proposal to introduce a 100 percent wage guarantee for workers who need to be quarantined and are now on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs. We hope that the proposed regulation will be implemented quickly. The end of the tunnel is far from being seen; there will still be many people in quarantine. So it is really important that we continue to work on this. The second part of this law concerns vaccination. I'm a little surprised it's brought in that way, out of the way. In fact, grossly summarized, we are going to say today that the vaccine will have to be registered, that it will be compulsory, but we do not answer the many legitimate questions of the population. It is not serious in the process that we are leading. I note a number of problems. A first problem concerns pharmacovigilance. The marketing authorizations that are likely to arrive soon – we are talking about December 21 – will be temporary and exceptional because the process has been quick. It's positive, but they'll be exceptional because we don't have much hindsight. I therefore do not understand that we are not more precise about the type of data and how to register. How will this pharmacovigilance be organised? How will vaccination end up in Vaccinnet? How will it happen in each patient's electronic medical record? How will side effects be recorded, for example? Will this pharmacovigilance program also be imposed on firms? Will they be used? Does the AFMPS already organise this? With regard to the use of data, what will be recorded? Will data be cross-checked with respect to infections? Will it be checked if vaccinated people still develop infections? As different vaccines are likely to be administered, will the data on possible side effects, possible coronavirus infections versus different vaccines be cross-checked to monitor and take seriously the pharmacovigilance that should be particular? We know that our country is not very strong in this regard. The second problem for which I would like to get an answer is how to avoid the vaccination strategy leading to a two-speed society where some people with their vaccine passport could access travel or events. How do we avoid this two-speed society? The third problem I identify is not the least: compliance with the privacy law. I do not understand that the opinion of the Data Protection Authority has not been taken into account. I remember the legislative imbroglio that we have experienced around the data banks created in the context of the tracing of contacts. I think all this has contributed to the difficult setting up of tracing in our country. Why did you save on that? Why didn't you incorporate the lessons of the difficulties that were experienced at that time into the text? We have no answers to these concerns. It's a little bit fast made at the one again. We're told we need to register the vaccine, and then we don't answer any other questions. We do not agree with that. That is why I abstained on the text yesterday, and we will probably also abstain here, unless the debate provides convincing clarification, but not on the application of the rapid tests, which are contained in the same text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u77	Mr President, I will be brief, because a great deal has already been said in the debate, and rightly so, in view of the situation today. This very interesting and important debate deserves particular attention, as Mrs Depoorter said at the beginning. The additional efforts seem to pay to some extent, given some falling figures, although unfortunately they will not be enough to arrive in a safe haven now. That worries us all, all the more so because the winter months give the virus free play. Fortunately, there are positive developments. We are all looking forward to the vaccination campaign, which will be launched, and expect much of the test strategy in which the test capacity is increased and there is particular attention to rapid testing, which is the subject of today's debate. Quick tests are useful for general practitioners, triage centres and emergency services, who quickly detect whether or not someone is infected. They also offer some perspective, because it allows preventive screening of certain groups and thus ascertaining whether or not there is a risk. The wide application of rapid tests, along with the roll-out of vaccinations, even if it will take some time, can be the way to a more normal life. Colleagues have already mentioned the need for a legal framework for the use of rapid tests and the obligation to record and collect data on vaccinees in the country. That is why my group took the initiative to make a proposal. The text before us is the necessary next step in the strategy against COVID-19. In any case, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the thorough debate and for the willingness to discuss the proposal urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u78	Mr President, like my colleagues, I will comment on both aspects of this bill. Catherine Fonck has already had the opportunity, in the Committee on Health, to make a few remarks and inquiries on this issue. In terms of antigenic testing, it was necessary to act on our testing strategy, in order to make it as ambitious as possible. Of course, these tests are part of it and can help improve things. On the other hand, we are still wondering about the implementation of these measures, since the bill contains a great deal of delegations to the King. It is therefore necessary for the royal decree to be taken quickly and, above all, after consultation with the actors concerned. Several colleagues stressed the importance of engaging with the actors on the ground in this area. The second aspect, which is much more problematic in our view, is the question of the registration and processing of vaccination data. In substance, let us be very clear: we must have such a registration system. There is therefore no question of questioning this principle, since it is part of the strategy. Nevertheless, and Catherine Fonck pointed it out to you in committee, the proposal before us raises some problems. Indeed, Minister, we have been asking you – you and your government, but also the previous – for many weeks about the need for a real vaccination strategy. You responded that you would be ready when the vaccines were available. However, we can see that this is not the case. Indeed, this proposal is illegal. You know that a cooperation agreement is necessary, but you still decide to submit this text. If you were ready, the cooperation agreement would of course have been signed. You probably haven't learned any mistakes from the past. You have inherited the difficult experience of the tracing saga and you know the constitutional difficulties posed in terms of privacy in these questions. Now, today, you're putting that back! You knew that a cooperation agreement was necessary, but you did not take the necessary steps in due course, and then take the urgency to have an illegal proposal adopted by Parliament. Neither the Council of State nor the Data Protection Authority has ruled on this text. This is, of course, unacceptable! You indicated that the implementing order would be submitted to them. I was going to answer: that's all I'd miss! However, this does not remove the problem of the proposal which is being put to the vote in these particular days. Similarly, I am particularly stunned by the unpreparation and blurry surrounding the issues of registration of vaccinations. The purpose of the registration, the categories of data processed, the persons responsible for their processing and the retention periods are not defined in this text. It will be up to the King to define them, as Article 11 states. Because of these many delegations to the King, the exact scope of this text cannot be measured at present. The real debate will take place behind the scenes in the government, while transparency – as has been said for weeks and you have also claimed it – is absolutely necessary to restore the confidence of citizens who are asking questions. And we also know, others have said so. Finally, I believe that, as in the case of tracing, there are too many possibilities for the collection of unnecessary data and for cross-checking between the various databases, which should be strictly prohibited; that pseudonymization is too little respectful of citizens' privacy and that vaccination, which is a voluntary process, can only be traced anonymously. Finally, no person or institution should be required to produce a certificate of vaccination. While these reasons are extremely important and of a legal nature – of course, the issue of vaccination is very serious – it is not, however, necessary to trample on the fundamental principles of privacy, but also the fact that this text is illegal and requires a cooperation agreement in advance. For all these reasons, although we support the principle, we do not support the way forward and we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for months now we have been calling for the introduction of rapid tests in our screening strategy, in any case that of the government! For months, too, we have been calling for a coherent vaccination strategy, knowing how difficult it is in our country to steer an effective strategy with regard to the fragmentation of skills! The experts who are heard in the special committee covid keep reminding us of this from week to week. And yet, your government has just confirmed its willingness to further expand its public health skills, without evaluation and without consultation with the sector concerned, while it has suffered and is still experiencing the consequences of this breakdown of competences on the ground today. It follows that, in order to carry out a coherent health policy, cooperation agreements remain necessary, while they take time, too much time, in the face of a race against a virus that does not wait for us to reach our loved ones and our economy ever more. The proposal before us today illustrates once again the heaviness of our institutional lasagna. Admittedly, a legal framework was needed to organize both the use of rapid tests and the processing of vaccination data. We were therefore ready, Minister, to support this initiative, which has become, in the second wave of the epidemic, an urgent emergency. Except that the text before us today does not offer legal certainty. This has been explained by my colleagues, but I would like to go back to it again: firstly, because the text was not submitted to the legislative section of the Council of State and, secondly, because the same text was not submitted to the Data Protection Authority for its opinion either. This opinion was essential, in particular for the reading of Article 5 of the proposal according to which the interpretation of tests is communicated to Sciensano in accordance with the provisions of a cooperation agreement dealing with another subject, namely tracing. While Article 11 states that each doctor must transmit the vaccination to the database of the interministerial conference set up by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, it does not prevent the deliberate royal decrees in the Council of Ministers, which have followed each other at a crazy speed since the beginning of this crisis, from guaranteeing legal certainty. At a minimum, there was a need for a cooperation agreement and an opinion from the Data Protection Authority. In addition to this legal uncertainty, while legal certainty – whether in relation to testing or tracing – has, since the beginning of the crisis, made it necessary for the public not only to adhere to the measures but also to be effective, this proposal contains shortcomings and inconsistencies that have been raised by several of my colleagues earlier, notably by Mr Bacquelaine. I am thinking in particular of the role of the pharmacist, who is nevertheless a crucial issue in the implementation of rapid antigenic tests and which is not clearly defined in the text of the proposal, since the text provides that pharmacists cannot sell the tests – as provided for in Article 3 – when they could perform them if the conditions specified in Article 5 are met. The urgency also does not allow us to appreciate certain practical aspects, including the famous use of Vaccinnet, which is currently unknown in both Brussels and Wallonia. The question of the patient's follow-up via his or her overall medical record and shared pharmaceutical record is also not dealt with in the text, whereas this aspect is crucial in a whole series of situations, and in particular if the vaccine requires two injections, which is the case with the Pfizer vaccine, but also if the patient develops side effects. For all these reasons, and in the absence of any answers that you, Minister, may have at the moment, my group will have to abstain from voting on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u80	Mr President, here are a number of debates that have also been held in committee. This includes the role of pharmacists and a number of institutional or constitutional questions. I am quite in agreement, even in full agreement with the keywords used by Mr Bacquelaine, who rightly spoke of the need for consultation on the involvement of pharmacists. Indeed, as we all know, this bill provides for a possible opening through a royal decree with regard to the role of pharmacists in public clinics. Mr. Bacquelaine added that there should be no delay in this matter. In addition, Mr. Bacquelaine used a key concept. For example, he drew attention to the need to distinguish between the distribution, sampling and interpretation of tests. He said, once again rightly, that in a vaccination campaign, a principle of proximity must be applied. There is obviously a question of the first line, namely doctors, general practitioners, pharmacists, but also local authorities. I really support this idea by involving them in the vaccination campaign. Mr Bacquelaine also said that it is not clear that pharmacists with public officials are not yet given a role in the test and vaccination story. However, there are good reasons for this, and I would like to stress that this has nothing to do with some kind of vote of confidence with regard to pharmacists or a lack of confidence in their professionalism. That is absolutely not the case. I believe that pharmacists have an important role to play in the care, but when it comes to the rapid tests, we start from the strict view of a closed distribution system for reasons of caution. That's a closed circuit but it's not a state circuit, in the sense that a company is perfectly capable of buying quick tests from a licensed distributor. A company can do that without a problem. A company must be able to employ a company doctor and a small company can do so through the intercompany medical services. In other words, it is not an understanding of the market, but a market in which key players operate in a closed circuit at this stage. The pharmacists are not there and the main reason for this is that today we are unable to carry out tests safely in public officials in countless places in the country. At a meeting on 9 December, 40% of pharmacists had sufficient room to participate. Mrs Depoorter, I do not want to pick up, but the figures are reversed: 60% say they do not have enough space. Nor is it enough to have one room, because one must also be able to deal with a situation in which people with an increased risk of infection are allowed to come along with patients with some kind of disease who also visit the pharmacy. So we really need to be able to separate the flux of people who want to be tested from the people who visit the pharmacy because they have some kind of disease, which may make them vulnerable. One space is therefore not necessary enough to do so and as a result, 60% of pharmacists have indicated that they are not ready for this. That is absolutely not a reproach, it just means that we have to take the time to do so. I think Mr Bacquelaine is right when he makes a distinction in the debate. There is a difference between taking the test, which, according to the decision of this Chamber, can also be done by the pharmacists, and the medical interpretation, the conclusion for the patient. Can we just entrust it to a pharmacist? I'm not saying we can't, but we're careful about that. And if we take these steps, we will do so by a royal decision. Mrs Depoorter and other colleagues, the penalties are the classic measure of punishment. I realise that this is unpleasant because the classic penalty is a severe penalty for infringements in the world of pharmacy. I realize that, but it's just the classic penalty. There are countries where a test can indeed be carried out in a pharmacy. This can be done in France, Portugal, the United Kingdom and perhaps in other countries, but there are many countries where that is not possible. Those aren't police states, they're not Soviet regimes. There are many countries where one cannot just pass a quick test in a pharmacy, let alone apply that self-test on one's own. I agree with another member of the opposition, Mrs Merckx. Organizing self-tests is really a step too fast. I'm not saying a bridge too far, but right now it's not what to do. One has to be careful here. Finally, as far as the bar code is concerned, I say this subject to reservation and I hope I am not mistaken, because I am not the technical expert here, but I think it is as follows. If one gets a phial with, for example, 10 doses of vaccine, and that will apparently be common, then there is a barcode on that phial. It will be registered in Vaccinenet and will be entered in Sciensano's database. If something goes wrong there, then there is a relatively limited steel on which the tracing begins. Those aren't packages of hundreds of doses. These are phials with 10 doses and the traceability applies. What you are proposing, Mrs Depoorter, is a considerable complication. Your proposal may also be based on the idea that the pharmacist delivers individual doses of vaccines. The question should indeed be asked as to whether there should be an individual barcode per vaccine. In the current circumstances, we want to move forward. Many colleagues are calling for no time to be wasted. I wouldn't want that either. We need to be ready and we can be ready when those products arrive here. It is then easier to work with the products as they arrive. According to my intel, they're phials with 10 doses. Whether it's 10 or less, it doesn't matter, but there's a bar code on that package and it's registered. I could be wrong. This still needs to be technically verified, but that's how it is, I think. More generally, now that this legislation on rapid testing and vaccination raises concerns with something that has been discussed a great deal in the past, in particular how one deals with unique barcodes, I would honestly not do so. With regard to the constitutional aspect, in response to the CDH and DéFI, I will repeat what I have said. Yes, we need a cooperation agreement. But a cooperation agreement in our country is still very complicated! Madam, I believe you have complained about the complexity of our structures. Here's an example. A cooperation agreement is complicated, it takes time. We are not going to wait two months for a cooperation agreement before launching a vaccination campaign. We're not going to do that. We therefore create the legal basis at the federal level. We have already started the discussions and the procedure for reaching a consensus agreement at the level of the Interdepartmental Conference of Ministers of Public Health. This agreement will take place. It's necessary. But I still propose to start with a legal basis that we can create here. The same applies to data protection, with the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State. There will necessarily be opinions when this legislation is implemented through royal decrees. You will have opinions from the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority when we translate all this into royal decrees of execution. But let us not hide the fact that Parliament is in the process of legislating on its own initiative, in consultation with the government. This allows us to move forward. I can plead guilty to anything that has been late for a hundred years, but I have only been in place since October 1. We've been trying to speed things up since October 1st. Let us try to work together in this direction to put vaccines and ultra-fast tests at the disposal of our people, who suffer from this confinement and lack of hope, as soon as possible, in a safe and well-organized context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is not so much about whether 40% of pharmacists or 60% are willing or not, the core of the issue is that the 2012 Royal Decree already requires an intimate corner. Allow me to go further in that reasoning. The pharmacy has remained open throughout the covid crisis. We were always there for the patients. You don't think a distinction was made between incoming and outgoing patients, especially when it comes to symptomatic or presymptomatic subjects? People have long come together in the limited area of the pharmacy throughout the crisis, albeit with respect for the measures such as disinfecting hands and keeping as far away as possible. A public official is a place where patients at risk come together and where a risk is taken. So I think that's a bit of a lean argument. Moreover, we have always indicated that the pharmacists who felt ready and wanted to participate in the strategy could be incorporated into the strategy, because this has also been done with the general practitioners. For example, I know a number of general practitioners who were themselves at risk and did not do tests because they themselves were too at risk, but referred people to the triage posts or to colleagues. So it's definitely not black and white. You answer very comprehensively about the reduction of tests in the official, but I keep asking why the closed circuit is necessary for the sale of self-tests or quick tests to the general practitioners. Why can't the GP buy a quick test from his home pharmacist? Why can't the home care center buy a quick test from his home pharmacist? After all, you must also bear in mind the economic reality: the pharmacist who is willing 24 hours a day to bring medication to the home care centre may bring a medicine quickly during his watch-keeping shift in the middle of the night, but he should not carry out rapid tests. It's very hard to explain. Finally, we will not convince each other, but when it comes to selling with registration in the pharmaceutical file, there is a hold-up, when there is no basis at internet sales, not on how the samples are taken or on certain alarm signals. We do not have any control over that. As far as the interpretation of the test is concerned, of course, reference must be made, but interpreting the bar code and then referring it to the doctor, the pharmacist can. It's an ELISA test, with dashes. Mr. Secretary, I would like to explain one more thing. Each vial contains a code, but that is a CNK number, a number that is on all vials and is the same throughout Belgium. There is also a lottery number on each vial, but that lottery number is about large entities, not about one dose, ten doses or a hundred doses, but about a lot of doses. With our proposal we want a unique barcode, a URL code, to be attached to the bottle, of which ten copies are made. The pharmacist present on the site can scan the URL code via an APB number and pharmacist software for any patient who receives a dose from that one bottle. This makes the connection between the bottle and the vaccine that ten patients received. If something went wrong during storage or boarding or with one of the other parts of the route, one can trace the ten affected patients. That's why I'm holding on to my plea. You are suggesting that a unique barcode per vial has already been assumed. That is not true, Minister. This has already been discussed in the Flemish working groups, but the federal working group has not yet consulted the pharmacists. It is high time to investigate the introduction of the unique barcode. You could run a risk analysis. You don't have to follow me; I'm just giving you a tip, because I'm convinced that the unique barcode can be very valuable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u82	I will be very brief, minister, because I know that a lot of discussion has taken place in committee. As for the delays, you're telling me you've been here since October 1st. However, we have known for a number of weeks, even if it takes time to make a cooperation agreement, that there will be, at some point, a vaccination campaign and also a registration of vaccines. It is not today that we discover it and realize that we must hurry to be ready for the recording. That argument, in my opinion, is irrelevant. I'll tell you the second thing in an extremely nice way. Being in this way in non-transparency and illegality just gives grain to grind – or water to the mill, if you prefer – to all the anti-vaccines that lead the country. What is important behind this is the credibility, transparency and legality of the system. This will avoid bringing water to the mill of those who see plots everywhere or those who are against vaccination. This is also why the mechanisms must be strong: to be respected, coherent and transparently perceived by the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u84	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1677/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1677/3) The bill has 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur for this draft is Mrs Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u87	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u88	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, people with disabilities, and by extension the parents of children with disabilities, are certainly not easy in these corona times and, unfortunately, even outside corona times, are often forgotten. This change of law came after the Constitutional Court had rightly ruled in its judgment of 9 July 2020 that the age criterion, whereby a disabled person must be 21 years instead of 18 years in order to obtain an income replacement, is discriminatory. In committee, the majority parties praised each other for finally correcting this discrimination. A law with the knife on its throat does not deserve its own praise. It was a necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u89	New legislative proposals are regularly reviewed, for example to detect gender inequality or to assess environmental impact. Of course, we are all opposed to this, but should we not introduce a disability test in the future? This group of sometimes immoral people is all too often forgotten. A pertinent remark by the Council of State or the Constitutional Court is then needed in order to come up with sound solutions. This adapted scheme for the benefit of people with disabilities is certainly a good thing, but it is a pity that this had to be done in such a way. It sometimes shows how little the legislator cares about this group of people. That's unfortunate. Of course, our group will support this bill because it meets one of our basic social principles, namely the equal treatment of people with disabilities in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u90	Madam President, I will be brief. I will simply say that we will support this vote. Fortunately, there is a Constitutional Court that reminds us of the need to put this change into practice. That's the minimum we could have done. I hope that in the future this government will quickly implement a pro-active policy of an inclusive society. I know that some aspects of this problem are reflected in the statement of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Gender. There is also a paragraph on persons with disabilities. But it's important and we can't just say that we have to do something. It really has to be done. I will cite a few examples. In the world of work, there is still a lot, far too many employers who, when they have to hire a person with a disability, are still looking far too much for the skills to be claimed that do not take disability into account and place the bar still too high. This is just an example. It is also important to think of all the practical things that could be done to help these people and their parents. I would also like special attention to be paid to all the difficulties these people face during this pandemic period. We will remain vigilant and constructive in making improvements to this society, where all these people do not have their place or, in any case, their rightful place. Nevertheless, we will support the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to thank my colleague Nathalie Muylle because she initiated the case when she was still a minister. So it's continuity. It is true that the ruling of the Constitutional Court has taken place, but I would point out that there will be a retroactive effect for all young people on 1 August 2020. It is, of course, only fair to be able to receive an allowance from the age of 18, i.e. the age of majority in this country for many years. For the rest, we have spoken in committee about the whole policy of people with disabilities. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u92	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u93	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1665/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1665/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u95	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Hugues Bayet, Guillaume Defossé, Denis Ducarme, Hendrik Bogaert, Jasper Pillen, Kris Verduyckt, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Jadin and Mr Flahaut who refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u97	Madam President, first of all, I am pleased that the Minister has already entered, but I find it remarkable that neither of the rapporteurs is present in this plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u98	They referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u99	Did they let you know?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u101	That's easy, isn't it? I think it is important that you, as President-in-Office, try to organise the work properly. I've been in the Chamber for a very long time. I think it is a matter of respect for the rapporteur to be present during the discussion of a report in plenary. Just sending an e-mail saying that we are referring to the written report, isn't that a bit easy? Is that the standard procedure that will be applied from now on? I've never been there, but Corona makes everything possible. It may always be like this from now on. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u102	Madam Chair, I had the pleasure and honour of being a group leader under the previous legislature. Mr Franken, then Secretary of State, did not always participate in our work. It's not a reproach; it's a fact. I can tell you that, very regularly, Mr Bracke, who was then President of the House of Representatives, was sometimes confronted with the same situation concerning rapporteurs from the ranks of the majority. The opposition, of which we were a member at the time, accepted that from time to time, for reasons beyond their control – which is not always the case – the absent rapporteurs asked a member of their group to recall that they referred to their written report. This is a form of practice which does not, indeed, correspond to what should be, but which was taking place, including – I remember – for Members of the majority. To Mr. Fancken who says he doesn't remember it, I remind him of the proverb "of pink memory, we never saw a gardener die." For the rest, Mr. Flahaut is coming. If Mr Franken wishes, he can be expected to refer to his written report or to continue our work. It's as you wish, Madam President. I naturally rely on your magisterium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u103	In this Parliament, of course, the tradition is to move forward. It seems to me that this is generally the will of the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u104	Madam President, in response to colleagues, I have just contacted Ms Kattrin Jadin, who sent me a message in which she indicated that she referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u105	Account must also be taken of the situation of the corona virus, which prevents many Members of Parliament from being present in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u106	Madam President, first of all, I think that corona is an absolutely faint excuse. I see one member of the MR, although I believe that a number of MR members and at least more than one member may be present. So I do not see why that argument can be invoked. Perhaps Mrs Jadin has a medical report, so she cannot be present. Of course, that's something else. If, for reasons of coronaquarantine or disease, she cannot be present in the hemisphere, of course I have every respect for that and I will be the last to comment on it. However, that is not the case with my knowledge. In your capacity as President of the Chamber, you state that corona is a good reason not to be present. If there is only one MR member present, although they may be present with three or four members, that is just about the lamest excuse I've heard in months. It is stated that, during the period I was Secretary of State, reference was also made to the written report by e-mail or by means of a message. I don't know. I'll check. Mr Laaouej, I would like to take your word for it without any difficulty, but in my opinion that is not a healthy reflex in itself. This is a very controversial legislative proposal which is being chased through Parliament with the carwat and for which only one of all the authors is present, in particular Mr Bayet, for whom I have a great deal of respect. He's a very respectable member of the Defense Commission. Excuse me, Mr Vanden Burre has just entered the Chamber. I regret that little presence. Those legislative proposals have been very much debated, until late in the evening. I'll also have my substantive exposé in a moment. At least the necessary decency can be achieved by being present. I am particularly pleased that, as always, a strong bear such as André Flahaut is present. After all, he is always in the couloirs de la Chambre. So it's very good that he comes into the room. However, I would like to point out that rapporteurs wish to produce this report, and if possible do so in a physical way. Invoking Corona as an excuse is particularly faint, except, of course, when the person concerned is sick himself or quarantine measures have been imposed by circumstances. That is, of course, of a totally different order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u107	In the meantime, our colleague, the rapporteur, Mr Flahaut, has indeed entered the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u108	Madam President, I experienced something hallucinating in the Chamber two weeks ago. We had yet another meeting on the policy statement and budget of our new Minister of Defense, our MoD, Ludivine Dedonder, which in itself was particularly interesting and relevant. I think it has never happened in the recent parliamentary history that we have been discussing the future of defence for so long and in terms of content. I think this was an added value. I also think it was a high-level debate, both in the opposition and in the majority. That has sometimes gotten on the nerves of certain Members of Parliament and of the government, but I think it was interesting, because we have a Defence Commission that works well and also tries to find a consensus across party boundaries in a constructive way. That's not always easy, but I have to say I'm glad I'm a member of the Defence Commission. It's the only committee I'm actually a member of. It's my old love I come back to. My disappointment was all the greater when I saw what an inappropriate and strange bill was tabled by the majority parties. That bill wasn't or barely read by the signatories. I've seen Mr. Ducarme's face. I saw Mrs. Jadin's face. I have seen a number of members of the majority face when I went into its content. They barely knew what it was about. That was very painful. I asked the Minister a number of questions and I did not receive any answers on that evening. That was sad. I hope that in future we will work together in a different way, otherwise our military and our defense will be the real losers of this story. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the content of this bill and I would like to make three points. Firstly, the need for special measures for our defence of our country within the framework of corona is normal, and I have no problem with that, that is the logic itself. The need for a number of additional measures to be taken in the context of the Corona Agreement on Defence, which are part of a legislative amendment, is obvious. When it comes to homework, home-work traffic, the way corona measures should apply to our units, the companies and battalions, that's normal. Colleagues, most of the articles in this bill relate to this. In this respect, the N-VA supports these measures. However, there are two articles with which our group has a major problem, namely Articles 2 and 9. I have tabled two amendments to those two articles. Article 2 deals with physical tests and selection tests at the Department of Defence. Article 2 states that those selection tests will be suspended for the recruitment year 2021 in the framework of all recruitments, i.e. there are around 2,300 to 2,500 in total. This year it was the ambition to recruit about 2,000 soldiers. I don't know if we're gonna make it, considering corona. Next year's ambition is 2,300 to 2,500. We have a meeting tomorrow morning of the Defence Commission on the military quota. Then we can go into more detail. This is largely the level of ambition of National Defence in the field of recruitment. Our army has about 25,000 soldiers. It is therefore about 9 to 10% of the total number of soldiers, who will be recruited without physical fitness tests. I have a fundamental problem with that. Luckily, we still have a lot of resources within the Defense Department and I've been able to inform myself. Personally, I think it is a totally missed opportunity, and a total lack of ambition and creativity, that the general staff and the Defense Department cannot develop alternatives in the field of selection tests. It is claimed that physical selection tests can no longer be organised. These physical tests take place in Lower Over Heembeek, in a section of our military hospital. Those are small spaces where all the treadmills are close together. The one-and-a-half meter control is not guaranteed there. So the defense has decided not to organize physical tests for anyone. The police also have new recruits and are very ambitious. There is so much money that a huge number of staff are recruited. I hope all this works. It would be good for the safety of our country. As a representative of a party committed to security, I can only welcome that. It would be nice. However, police schools continue to organise physical tests, albeit with a few adjustments. However, they continue to select on the basis of physical testing. But the defense just stopped. So there have been concrete months, and this will take months next year, people recruited to Defense who may be physically not quite okay. The whole physical readiness story is very close to my heart, I have been committed to it here in the Chamber for ten years. Ten years ago, I became a member of the National Defense Commission for the first time. At that time, I worked very hard to adapt the physical testing of candidate-military and military personnel on assignment. I found the Xavier Waterslaeghers image of the Defense Department devastated. I would like to explain that Xavier Waterslaeghers is an iconic figure in the Flemish television world who has partly determined the negative image of our soldiers, namely a bellyful person who, after the service, often not too late in the afternoon, liked to order his daily dish and was actually not particularly active in the field of defence. I always thought that was a very negative image that still sticks to the Defense Department. Together with Pieter De Crem, the then Secretary of Defense, I have written a whole new story in which physical preparedness and physical testing were put back into the spotlight. Failure in those physical tests was never sanctioned at that time, no one could touch you, even though you failed these tests for five years in a row. That has finally changed and we have come a long way. I think it is wonderful that we have succeeded in this in ten years, also because of the attacks and the fact that our soldiers now have much more social appreciation than ever before. So that's a positive effect of a terrible thing like the attacks. It sounds strange to say something like that, but our soldiers are proud to walk up. One of the positive effects is that we make sure that our military are physically ready. They are no longer people with fat bellies, they take care of themselves at the top and can therefore also take better care of our country. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can understand that Corona makes it very difficult for physical testing to take place in a small room with treadmills. I certainly understand that, but I would like to know why alternatives are not being considered. Alternatives were worked out in the police schools, which is apparently not possible with the Defense Department. I don't understand. I notice a total lack of creativity in the search for alternatives, which I regret, because I think that means that we recruit three thousand to four thousand people who are not physically tested. When I look at that, I have some reservations. I think that most young people do not want to work for Defence when they are physically not ready to do so, because those who do not feel sufficiently physically capable simply do not begin to do so. Unmistakably, however, some of the thousands of candidates will not be physically ready at all. If one of my kids wants to sign up for Defense, which may ever happen, I would personally advise against it if my kid is physically unfit, as a father. I give that advice regardless of the existence of physical tests. My advice is that if you are not fit, you should not start with the Defense Department, as you always have to be fit with the Defense Department. In any case, it belongs to the government's mission to control that, it is a basic task of the government. I myself am not an advocate of a large government, I really am a conservative, the government does not have to be too big for me, but I think the government should concentrate on its basic tasks. It is part of the basic tasks to check whether anyone recruited to Defense is physically fit and psychologically top. I cannot support the fact that this is now being stopped without an alternative. I find it incomprehensible from Open Vld and MR. Mr De Maegd and Mr Piedboeuf, I really do not understand why you can sell that in Wallonia. In 2021, Defence's largest recruitment campaign for the last 30 years will be held. With the purple-green-plus-Vivaldi coalition, you say the physical testing is not important. On the other hand, the police and Minister Verlinden say that physical testing is very important. Though Corona can't do it like it used to, there is an alternative worked out. That's what happened to the police, but the DOD can't. Defense doesn't have the creativity, like the police, to develop an alternative testing course. That's totally absurd. You can tell me a lot, but you can't tell me, I have a little bit of experience in the federal administration that Defense can't organize physical testing coronaproof. It's an additional invention. All officers, candidate officers and millionaires must do a physical test every year for the first four years before they are legally appointed. That test is still going on every month. So the DOD hasn't stopped all physical testing. They keep doing it for whoever's already in the army, corona proof. Apparently they can, but for the new recruits, they don't do it anymore. What's that supposed to mean? A new recruit shouldn't do physical testing and can just come in. Believe me, some in this House would like to see Defence again as the employment battery it was in the 80s and 90s among certain ministers. Bring it on. Are you looking for a job? Why don't you go to the army? No problem. We have a job for you. They may all enter, but the physical testing is still organized every month for the military who are already in service. So it has nothing to do with coronaproof, because it's still organized every day at Defense, just not for the new military. Allow me to be a little suspicious. That's my nature. I'm not trying to get paranoid, but I'm a little suspicious. Some people want to make Defense a big employment hub again for low-skilled people and people who don't get to work. That is fantastic and also brings out a lot of votes. If then the physical test is eliminated in the first bill of the purple-green Vivaldic coalition, by a member of the Party Socialist, then I am extra suspicious. I can tell you that. In view of the history of defence, which I know very well and have been following my entire life, I am particularly suspicious, because then I wonder what exactly the government's intention is outside the sintering-clay policy we can read about every day and in the context of which the boys and girls of Ecolo want to spend EUR 3.4 billion. It is incredibly unbelievable, und kein Ende, but we will discuss this in the budget debate tomorrow. I'll be there at 10:00 in the morning, looking forward to it. I certainly wonder what the government's real agenda is if the first legislative proposal aims to eliminate the physical selection tests. I wonder. Do you want to return to an army from the 80s and 90s or do you want to do what we, colleagues from the MR and the Open Vld, have done in the Swedish coalition, namely to make the army finally a top-fit army that can serve us internationally, that upholds our reputation, that dares to stand up against terror internationally, in the fight against Islamism? Is that our ambition or is the ambition to hire anyone again by taking out all the selection tests again? It can't go on, an employment battery like in the '80s and '90s. We all know it, we all have seen what that will give. I have therefore tabled an amendment to delete Article 2. I find it irresponsible that there are no physical selection tests left for the army. That's gotta stop. I want an alternative worked out. If you can do that with the cops, why can't you do it with the D.O.D.? I think that's the best argument. I didn't get an answer to that. Mr Bayet, Mrs Dedonder, I hope I can finally get that. Why can't the police do it with the D.O.D.? My second amendment concerns Article 9. In fact, I think this is a terrible piece of legislation. Legalism is a dragon. I find it scandalous that this is not being presented to the Council of State and that you are working with a bill to rush it through Parliament. The Council of State would make a mess of it. This is just scandalous legislation. You should read Article 9. We discussed the interpretation of Rule 9 for an hour at the committee meeting. It's unreadable. Madam Minister, I do not know who drafted the article in your cabinet, but it is illegible: "The King may take additional exceptional measures if the health crisis in connection with the Coronavirus COVID-19 continues." We have had a long discussion about whether these exceptional measures that the King, de facto the Council of Ministers, can take, can only be taken as long as the corona crisis continues. I don't think that's what it says at all, according to the majority. If you talk for an hour in the legislative chamber about the interpretation of one article of two sentences, that is a sign that your legislation is not quite clear. That's the least one can say. The article is completely unclear. I must tell you quite frankly that I have a fundamental problem with this. I find it inconceivable that this government should be the first to submit a proposal to regulate the adaptation of the military statute, the Holy Grail of Defence, through the government. Mr Laaouej, if we had dared, under Steven Vandeput in the Swedish coalition, to propose that the status of candidate soldiers, the status of soldiers, the Holy Grail of Defence, be delegated to the government by way of a ministerial or a royal decision, then you were on the front page of Le Soir to charge it as a sheer disgrace. You would charge that the first thing that the ultraliberal government of Charles Michel, la Suédoise, had proposed, was to amend the status of defence through a delegation that Parliament gave to the government. You would have been on the stage and on the front pages of the newspapers. You would have said in any news broadcast on the French-speaking channels that it is a shame that such a thing should not be discussed with the opposition, in Parliament, with the legislator. You would have made it a great shame. Now, what is your first proposal? Article 9 of your proposal, Mr Laaouej, deals with the adaptation of the status of the military. For 40 or 50 years there has been constant consultation with the social partners and with Parliament. Mr Flahaut has always brought it to Parliament. Mr Flahaut has never dared to decide on his own. It was always voted on after a contradictory parliamentary debate with the opposition. Now, for the first time in history, the status of the military can be adapted without involving the legislative chamber. That's what Article 9 says. You're calling in the corona crisis as a reason. That is somewhat understandable, but your wording creates a total legal uncertainty. This is legit shit. It's a piece of shit. Read it. It has neither head nor tail. I have a great fundamental problem with that. We've never dared to go this far. If we had done so, the left-wing opposition, led by Mr Laaouej, would have burned us down. That would have been justified. The first thing you're proposing right now is to delegate it to the government. I find that unimaginable. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of a legislative period. It's the first time I've spoken about a bill, but it won't be the last time. I would like to make one point very clear: a number of rules must be respected. One of these rules is that the separation of powers in the field of basic principles remains best respected. If the status of the military can be adjusted by delegation to the government, then we are crossing a red line. You can laugh all you want, Mr Laaouej, but this is a precedent. You'll be here a long time, but so will I. It's a precedent I won't forget. If you use that weapon, I might use it, too. Don't worry. I will refer to this evening, to this report. You delegate the status of military to the government. Then why should we not do so in the future in another coalition? If you have any serious criticism, I will refer you to tonight. No problem. It's not because you're powerful now and you're in the government that you'll be as powerful next time you might be in the opposition again. No problem. It may be, even in politics, that's how it works, but be careful when you cross certain red lines. The status of military personnel has never been amended in the last 40 years without Parliament's approval. You delegate it to the government. I totally disagree with that, apart from the context. This is a purely fundamental point for which you, with a large union within the Defense Department, should have a great deal of respect. Apparently, that is not the case. So far, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u109	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, my colleagues from the majority and I intend to deal with a matter that is merely a matter of common sense. It is the adaptation of certain rules and procedures to the Defence in the light of the health crisis which, alas, is not yet behind us. To this end, the text we are presenting today seeks to meet two objectives. The first is the possibility of continuing recruitment into the army despite the health measures, and the second is the modification of some rules on telework, since the army too has to adapt to the pandemic. As you know, it is more than necessary to be able to continue to hire Defence personnel. In fact, the assembly recognized this as a result of the resolution on human resources in defence that my group and I tabled this summer. This priority was also reflected in the general policy note of the minister who made it one of the key points of this legislature. It is, of course, precisely in this vein that the first objective of the proposal is to take exceptional measures to ensure the recruitment of these pandemic times throughout the year 2021. We all know that the army also has to deal with its staff who are ill, who are teleworking and we know that they are missing on all floors. These measures include the possibility for the Director General of Human Resources to limit the number of applicants or candidates for career officers in the normal recruitment process for the selection tests or, where appropriate, not to organize physical tests during the selection procedures or to be able to terminate recruitment procedures if one or more applicants prove to be positive for the covid-19. Everyone will of course have understood it well. We are trying to strike a balance between the need to continue recruiting, while ensuring the safety and health of applicants and examiners, and not, as I heard, recruiting people who would not have the physical capacity to be part of the army. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that there are not only para-commandos working in our Defence but also a range of other categories of personnel. With the second objective, what we are aiming at is to guarantee this health security by adapting the rules on telework that are currently applicable. We therefore propose to increase not only the daily allowance linked to telework but also the days of telework allowed in the legislation, as appropriate. In addition, special new measures should be readily possible in the event of a continuing health crisis related to coronavirus (covid-19). That is why we also intend to empower the King to take complementary measures, if necessary, which is, let us recall, a very common parliamentary technique. This will allow us to put our military on an equal footing with other federal services and not, as I have heard, to amend the statutes. It is a matter of adapting the working rules to the coronavirus. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the peculiarity and urgency of the situation call for exceptional measures to be taken. But these measures are extremely well marked and especially limited in time since they can run only until 31 December 2021 maximum. They are exceptional, time-limited and partial because we do not remove all physical exercises with a stroke; we offer, because we trust our military personnel, the opportunity for the Director General of Human Resources to assess the possibility of continuing or modifying physical fitness tests, if any, by sector. They are therefore proportionate measures that will ensure the continuity of the recruitment work in good conditions within Defence, while at the same time not hypothesized the health of our staff. Indeed, it is our duty to ensure that those who have supported the effort to fight the virus can also feel safe at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u110	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although we discussed the proposal before us by the majority parties in detail in committee two weeks ago, I would like to come back to it. There is one thing I must say, quite apart from the fact that the authors of the committee meeting were able to answer very few questions and even sometimes said inaccuracies. Today, hardly any of the proposers are present in plenary, only two of the seven signatories. Given the content of the proposal, it is not surprising that it is colleagues from PS and Ecolo. However, the proposal is particularly important. It deals with the recruitment of candidate soldiers, one of the most important challenges of the Defense Department in the coming years. Even the chairman of the committee has not bothered to be here, even though there are still seats available on the benches of his group, Mr Francken is not. That too is a particularly painful finding. Personally, I always think quality is more important than quantity, and that in all areas, including for the defence of the country. It seems that the majority parties do not agree with this, because in addition to some commendable elements in the present legislative proposal, e.g. teleworking arrangements in the context of the current corona crisis, the proposal will also allow for the suspension of physical tests for candidate soldiers throughout the coming recruitment year. As a reason, colleagues are raising the corona crisis, but I believe that I am being joined by a number of people in the Defense Department there are more than enough opportunities to organise the sport trials with respect for social distance. For example, time slots, maximum capacities, outdoor tests and testing can be used under strict supervision of someone monitoring the distance measures. Why do we want to be able to ignore the physical tests for a whole recruitment year? The sport trials are an important selection criterion in the recruitment of new recruits, especially for military personnel who can be deployed in operations. I can only draw one conclusion from this, ladies and gentlemen of the majority parties. Either you underestimate or miss the importance of physical preparedness in our army, or you use corona as a convenient excuse to lower the bar and increase the influx into our army, regardless of physical fitness or motivation. Will the military who have not prepared themselves for physical tests, because they are not organized, and who then, when the tests are re-taken over a certain period, fail to succeed, because of physical incapacity? I asked you this question twice at the committee meeting, but you have not answered me until today. I doubt very much whether you will do so, given the shortage of personnel in the Defense Department. The government has planned to deal with the shortage of staff by recruiting 10,000 new recruits during this legislative period, of which more than the proposed 2,300 in 2021. In order to fulfil that promise, it is clear that I should not be too strict to refer to this proposal. At least that looks like the purple-green credo. As many candidates as possible have to cross the bar and so the bar should be lowered. In our view, the personnel problem in the Defense Department does not justify opening all locks in the recruitment of candidate soldiers without proper selection, of which, I repeat, the physical test is an integral part. The acidic fruits of that very left-wing recipe of leveling and lower levels are also reaped in our education, which is now falling rapidly from the top of the world to mediocrity. That too has to do with a massive influx, albeit of a different nature. However, ladies and gentlemen, the principle remains the same. Madam Minister, in this context, I should like to take a step forward, as well as the reference in your government statement to the famous NEET programme, in which young immigrants often have the courage to call a cat a cat, which is nowhere to be found in the labour market, to be used in the defence sector. Colleagues, although it is a noble principle to activate hopeless young people, let it be clear, the programme, in our view, will lead to a flow of demotivated recruits without perhaps the necessary skills, on which our defense will have to deal in times when even the core tasks of our army are under pressure. In our opinion, our military can spare these additional headaches as a toothache. The Flemish Interest stands for quality above quantity in all policy areas, not least among our military, who work day and night and guard our security. National defence therefore deserves motivated workers, with adapted skills and qualities, of which physical fitness is certainly not the least important. We therefore call for physical tests to be carried out at all times, taking into account health measures. According to our group, this is perfectly feasible. Finally, I would like to return to the provision that the King, i.e. the Government, may take additional exceptional measures if the health crisis in relation to the coronavirus continues. I would point out once again that this power can only lie with Parliament. By the way, who decides when the health crisis is over? Is that the government? Is that the King? Are those the virologists? I do not know, you have to tell me; it is already very vaguely worded. My group therefore sees no reason to include this provision in the proposal. It is completely incomprehensible that such an article was inserted into the proposal. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Members who may have tabled the proposal need not know what impact it will have. The Flemish Interest Group will not approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed had the opportunity to discuss this subject at some length in committee in the previous weeks. We will discuss this again in the morning, as a request for a more detailed discussion of this matter has been made. I will repeat tomorrow what I am going to deliver to you today, and that I have already said in this committee, as have many colleagues. First of all, I understand that there is some mistrust. All right. But it is not necessary to blacken the picture. You see it in the commentary to article 2 where it is written: "The organization of physical tests remains a major priority for the Defence." Secondly, in the commentary to article 7, it is stated that this is an exceptional temporary nature linked to the crisis. Indeed, there is a health crisis. I hear we've never done this in 40 years. But we have never had such a crisis in 40 years! I would like to make it clear at once that I am fully in line with you, as I have already said on many occasions and when presenting the policy note. I also want high-quality Defence personnel. Stop saying that because we're socialists, we're gonna take everything and anything! Not at all! I do not see why this would contradict the fact of training young people who, for the time being, do not have a job. A lot of people find themselves unemployed today. I do not see what is, in the end, so critical of the idea of wanting to train young people who do not find a job. I come back to this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u112	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u113	I will continue to answer your questions. As I said, the health crisis has forced the Defence to take extraordinary steps to continue to recruit military candidates, while ensuring that their health is as protected as possible. The Defence, as you said, must recruit, and could not afford the luxury of simply stopping the selection of candidates, but it must, at the same time, ensure that this selection takes place in accordance with the health measures decided by the government. As you also said, on the Military Hospital site, it is not possible to pass the sports tests in safe conditions, neither for the candidates nor for the sports instructors who perform the tests. Various alternatives were presented to specialists in the Department of Operations and Training. None of these were considered relevant in the context of the covid. Indeed, doing such sports tests in a room mainly measures explosiveness, but not endurance. In addition, the alternative of outdoor sports events is not satisfactory either, since they cannot take place under the same conditions for all candidates. Different atmospheric conditions can influence the results. Since sports events are important for the establishment of a ranking, candidates who would not be accepted could argue this argument in an appeal. The sporting events were temporarily suspended. I would point out from the outset that, even if the possibility is actually foreseen for the whole of 2021, the aim is not to suspend the physical tests throughout the year, but for the period when they cannot be organised. As I said, this is a priority for the Defence. The fact that these tests have been suspended in the last few weeks following the tightening of health measures has not prevented the Defence from continuing to take initiatives if this situation unfortunately continues. Thus, the necessary arrangements have been made to pass sports tests adapted to Heverlee, on treadmills. There will be a reassessment of the health situation from the beginning of the year 2021. If this assessment is positive, the sports tests could then resume. This remains, I said, an important element for Defence, but neither can public health be ignored. I don't want us to mix the debates here. The bill containing specific measures for the selection of military candidates in the context of the health crisis has clearly defined this aspect. It is well stated: "Given the health conditions, however, the organisation of these tests remains an important priority for the Defence." It's written black and white. The purpose of this provision is therefore to be able to suspend sports tests only if government measures require it because of a large number of infections. I repeat, I have already said it three times, I have already said it last time in committee, because there is really no reason to be suspicious. As far as the police are concerned, you're giving information. As far as I am concerned, the information before me indicates that since 1 November the tests have been suspended until the situation has been reassessed. Like the Defence, the police have taken the necessary steps in the fight against covid. In order to respond to another request for accompaniment, sports tests remain mandatory throughout the military career. During their first year of training, all new military candidates are accompanied at several levels and certainly at the physical level. Article 9 gives the King a time-limited authorization so that, in the event of a continuing health crisis related to covid, he may adopt additional exceptional measures. This is just related to the fact that our system is anchored in a law while for all other civil servants, the provisions covid are settled in royal decrees. We're just here in a covid-limited setting. I repeat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u114	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answers, which do not satisfy in any way. There's a total lack of creativity when it comes to organizing physical testing at Defense. It's been going on for months, and it's basically that you want to extend it. It is a very crucial period for recruitment to the Defense Department, with thousands of newcomers, and there is a total lack of creativity. According to you, the police stopped the physical tests in November and are evaluating them. So they've been doing it for months, while you haven't done anything since May or April. Other armies, for example in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the US, continue to test physically, but we cannot, because the treadmills are too close together in Lower Over Heembeek. Isn't that absurd? What a joke. The physical testing takes place in the military hospital in Neder-Over-Heembeek. That can't be organized coronaproof there because those treadmills are too close together. I'd like to take that, but you better organize it differently. Then take the tests outside, like you used to. Disconnect the treadmills further. Organize the trials in groups. Military officers, candidate officers in their first four years of employment, before being appointed by law, still have to do their physical tests every month. Madam Secretary, is physical testing still being organised within the Defense Department since April 2020? The answer is yes, but not for the new recruits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u115	You're not listening to me, Mr. Franken!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u116	I've listened very carefully!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u117	I'm so sorry! Here, I'm talking about technical tests. I explained to you that inside the rooms, explosiveness can be simply measured but not endurance and that outside, there can be recourse because the weather conditions are not the same. So, are our soldiers still undergoing training at this time? Yeah, there's still practice, but here we're talking about tests. It's something else, but you don't want to hear me!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u118	I will therefore ask my question in French. Have physical tests been conducted in the Belgian army since March, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u119	No! Just as the police don't do it at the moment, for the reasons that are being invoked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u120	No, it's not true what you're saying! That's not even the truth! You're a minister. You know the files. Please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u121	I just told you that we had not organized any more because of the crisis!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u122	But no, that's not even true!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u123	The physical tests! You're telling me about recruitment tests!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u124	Every month, physical tests are conducted for military personnel seeking a statutory appointment. Every month, there are physical tests for the military! That's not even the truth you're saying! You don't know your file! Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u125	Neither do you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u126	You don't know your file at all, there haven't been physical tests for candidate soldiers for eight months, but for military personnel who are now in the army. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u127	Mr Franken, I have politely asked for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that the debate took place in committee. Today, we heard the same arguments as those put forward. Mr Franken, in reply, the minister said that she would answer you again tomorrow. I am confident that you will rest the same question with her, that the minister will give you the same answers and that you will use the same arguments to say that she does not know her file and that there is a difference between the police and the military. There is indeed a difference between the police and the military. But can't this part of the debate be closed and progress made? Objectively, I do not see what this kind of exchange brings to each other. Indeed, you will not be able to convince the minister and the minister will not be able to convince you. I know this is the game in this Parliament, but at some point we must be able to stop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u128	Thank you for your answer. First of all, it's not about convincing. I know I won't convince the minister. It's about facts and file knowledge. Secondly, Mr Flahaut, you said in committee that you are not really in favour of physical testing. That is quite clear, that is your personal point of view. I assume that your group does not share this view, but I do not really know. It is certainly a position that your Minister does not share. That's how I understood it from the talks. You're not personally in favour of physical testing. You don't think it's much use. That's your personal opinion, that may be, but it's about the content and the file. The fact that Mr Laaouej is here bringing up my secretary of state, about modesty, has nothing to do with it. I've been through a lot in my secretary of state. I got a lot from the PS and from Laaouej and his friends and friends. However, I have never been accused of not knowing my file. I've never heard that in four years. I've heard a lot: racist, fascist, discrimination. I've heard that a lot, but I never heard that I wouldn't know my file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u129	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u130	Mr Laaouej, you are now accusing me of never knowing my files. That's a diversion. I simply put a simple question to the Minister, in particular: have physical selection tests been organised in the army over the past few months? The Minister says no. The answer is yes. They were still organized for soldiers who wanted to be appointed by law. Then there is the question of how, for God's sake, one can declare that a military man who wants to join the army should not do physical tests, while a military man who wants to be appointed by law must do physical tests. I don't understand. One is said not to be able to organize this coronaproof, the other is still organized. I find that very strange. Madam Secretary, how is it that, in order to be legally appointed to the Ministry of Defence, physical tests are still being organized? How come they don't do that to get into the army? Why is that? That is a very simple question. Those distractions by your group leader do grace him, because he wants to protect his minister, but this is a very simple question and I just want an answer to that. If you wish to delegate the status of the military to the government, because that is what this bill is doing, then I may be allowed to ask a question about the status of the military here for the last few months. The government will then decide everything and Parliament has nothing more to say. Then why is it that physical testing is still being organized for people who want to be legally appointed, but not for those who want to be employed in the Defense Department? Explain that to me, Madam Secretary. That's my only question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u131	Madam President, I am not going to talk about substance, but about form. Could Mr. Franken stop? I am neither socialist nor liberal – and I sit in the opposition. You always give the right and wrong points: first to the Liberals who were not present at the beginning of the sitting to defend a report, then to the Socialists and to the Minister who would not know her file. Mr. Franken, could you stop continuously distributing the good and bad points? I think the minister has answered you. His answer didn't convince you. You then use an authority argument to say that she does not know her files, because you do not agree with the answer she provided. I'm just wondering if, in the face of a male minister, you'd persist in this strenuousness! (Applause from several benches)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u132	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I was pleased to see you applauding...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u134	...for the sexism argument that's being brought out now? I just find it scandalous, really scandalous, that you are insinuating that I would take on Madam Secretary because she is a woman and not a man. That's what's being insinuated here. And you applaud for that, as the President of the Chamber, who must serve the Chamber's work in a neutral manner. Is that what you are doing about a Member of Parliament who has been serving here for many years? Am I correct in understanding that you support the improbably vile remark and sneer, as if what I'm saying was sexist-inspired? Do I understand correctly, Madam President? Mr Laaouej, will you intervene in front of the President? You're the masculine... I don't know... the dam player or something... Madam President, can you explain why you applauded as Mrs Matz, a member of the Chamber, insinuating that, if I just ask a question about the content of the Minister, being whether physical tests have been organized at the Department of Defense over the past few months, I do so for the sake of sexist inspiration and therefore consider women inferior to men? You applaud that, Madam President. I find that shocking. I've never seen that before, and I've been on the Wetstraat for 20 years. It's totally disgusting, there's no words for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u135	Mr Franken, you are using your speaking time excessively. Regardless of sex, regardless of the men and women in this assembly, you misuse your speaking time simply to create incidents. It is against this state of affairs that I insurge myself as Speaker of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Franken, if you can have the elegance to be silent when one of your colleagues has been given the floor, that would not be wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u137	I gave the floor to Mr. From Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u138	I have asked for the floor, I have received it. I will therefore ask you to remain silent and you will take the floor if you wish, my dear Mr Franken. But in life, we must be able to respect the rules of practice that prevail, especially in a parliament. Mr. Franken, you have just taken your feet in the carpet and said to Mr. Laaouej: "I see you. You are a permanent male support". So you use the gender aspect by talking to Mr. Laaouej to deplore the fact that the gender aspect would be used to defend the minister. You're getting your feet in the carpet. This discussion therefore makes no sense. It is not the aspect of gender, it is the aspect of non-diligence that is at stake here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u139	Madam President, may I ask that we do not turn this into a gender issue? We are representatives of the people and we have questions. What difference does it make if the minister is a woman or a man? You can't say I don't stand up for women's rights. I've been doing that for years. If you respect people, men or women, then we must not look at the issue as a gender issue. She is our minister and we are the representatives of the people. We can ask questions to all our ministers without knowing whether it is a woman or a man.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u140	Madam President, apart from the content of the debate, which may and should be firm, I have known Theo Francken for a while and I have never had the impression that he would treat men or women less or more firmly because of their gender. I would like to ask Mr Matz the following question. When Theo Francken has just had a rather firm learner against Mr Laaouej, was that out of racism? When Mr Francken has been rather firm-headed against Mr Flahaut, is that because he wants to discriminate on the basis of age? When do I turn to you now, is it because I have something against free-trade? I would like to call on all my fellow Members not to argue for ease in order to conclude the debate. I turn to everyone. Intentional proceedings are the weakest arguments in litigation. Mrs. Matz, I think you did the right thing not to do what you did.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u141	Madam President, I found it an interesting debate at the beginning, with contradictory views on whether military personnel should be recruited in these corona times and whether military and candidate military personnel should be physically tested in advance. I'm not a specialist in the file and I don't know it in detail. I admit it, honestly. Afterwards, however, it slipped. After several colleagues Mr Francken had the floor. The Minister replied. The Minister replied. Perhaps Mr Francken did not think that answer was enough, and that does not have to be done in a democracy; one may differ from one another. When someone accuses the other ad hominem or ad feminam of a lack of knowledge of the file, one can agree with it or not, but that does not have to be said ten times to include comments for 15 minutes to 20 minutes that do not matter at all and which I do not think are respectful in the Chamber. Mr De Roover, a wise man, just said to speak to everyone. Well, I am following his example and I call on everyone to continue to replicate the substance of the matter, without insulting each other, in mutual respect, even if there is a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u142	I understand that if I take the floor in the Chamber, which always leads to more animosity in some people. That's not a problem. I can live with that. I'd like to explain a few things. Firstly, I made three preliminary comments to the Minister of Defence when discussing the policy letter. Everyone who knows me personally and who knows my heart for the world of defense knows that I have a huge respect for authority and therefore also for our MOD and our CHOD. It always will be. I'm trying to put that on a high level, let's make that very clear. Second of all, sexism is totally weird to me. I have no message about that at all. On the contrary, I've been rebelling against people who consider women inferior all my life, and they always will. I was raised like this. Such an insinuation, Mrs. Matz, I just don't, in any way. I would also very much like to see that recorded in the report. I also find it incomprehensible, Madam President, that you applauded. I think it's always better that you try to lead the debates emotionlessly, but okay. Thirdly, Mr De Maegd, you say that I mentioned masculin, which was of course intended ironically in Dutch. If you have missed it, I would like to stress that this was intended to be ironic. Because of the linguistic problems in this bilingual hemisphere, it seems that irony must be taken into account, both to the general public and to members. I shall now return to the substantive debate. When I made my point about the knowledge of the file, it had nothing to do with the fact that the minister is a woman. Whether the Minister is a woman or a man, I personally do not care at all. For all I care, the Secretary of Defense may be a non-binary transgender from Transnistria, and I personally do not care at all. What the Minister is like is completely irrelevant. I would never try to attack anyone on that, because that is simply absurd; that is not the way I stand in life and so is my party. I've just asked a pertinent question, I think. If the physical selection tests at the Department of Defense are stopped, I think three things are remarkable. First of all, why do the tests happen in police schools? The Minister replied that, according to her information, this practice had been on hold since 1 November. I will continue to inform myself of this from my sources to come back to it in committee. Secondly, why can the physical selection tests for candidate soldiers abroad, for example in the Netherlands and Germany, take place? That seems to me to be a fair and relevant question. If the Dutch and the French can do it, why can't we? Is it sexism, if I ask such a thing? That's just absurd. Thirdly, this question caused a lot of agitation, why are no more physical selection tests being organized for recruits who want to join the army, even though they do, in the coming months, for soldiers who want to be appointed by law? The reason is, in one case, the corona measures. Then I asked myself whether the Minister considered that physical selection tests had still been organized at the Ministry of Defence in recent months. The Minister answers no, but according to my information, the answer is yes, although not for candidate soldiers, but for soldiers who want to be appointed by law. I don't care if that person is A or person B. It's just about the fact that those physical tests are still being organized at the Department of Defense. Those are perfectly legitimate questions, to the point in the file. I and my group come to the conclusion that there is insufficient creativity in the defence staff to develop alternatives so that physical selection tests could be organised. C'est tout. That's all I said. Madam President, I have done so in my own way. That's all. I find it extremely regrettable that some things are being pushed down my neck here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u143	Madam President, in conclusion to this pitiful word, I would simply like to say to Mr Franken that he must agree to be placed before his own contradictions. Indeed, he castigates the sexism evoked by Mrs Matz by practicing it himself by speaking of a "masculin" support, then taking refuge behind the irony. Mr Franken, for you to understand correctly, irony is obviously not a linguistic matter, as you are trying to make it seem. It's a matter of good or bad taste. And in this particular case, when you deviate on the genre and even on the state of transgender, it is – let me tell you this – very bad taste.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u144	Madam President, I would just like to answer the specific question that has been asked to me because, for the rest, I think I have answered. For the statutory staff, the tests are also suspended. You'll check, like you'll do for the police, and you'll tell me what's going on tomorrow. Between the two waves, there have been physical tests, as I said earlier, for the statutory ones, but they are now suspended. In addition, everything has been done within the health framework. Finally, don't think you're impressing me because you're shouting loud! It is not a sign of intelligence! Besides, it's not just you that I have to prove that I'm in my place in this department. It has been two months since, following your remarks, I have to justify myself in the press on this subject. I hope that people will realize how valuable I am, after seeing what I have done. I'm sick of my ability to be at the station I'm occupying being put back on the table. You don't agree with what I'm saying. That is my position. You'll check it out. But other members obviously agree with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u145	Mr Franken, this is the last time I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u146	Madam Secretary, for the record, I am not calling, but I do have a loud voice. If I shout, that would sound like Denis Ducarme in the migration debate a few years ago, that's another order of business. For the record, I am not calling, nor is it in my ambition to call here. Mr De Maegd, it was irony. You can find that bad taste. Okay, that's your personal opinion. Madam Secretary, I think it is important that I make this clear to you. We have had a proper debate in committee for 12 hours. In this plenary, the composition is different, because at the moment there are the top players, the great sharks of Belgian politics. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am trying in a very intellectually honest way to weigh your policy. I congratulate you today on the agreement you have reached with the insurance industry on the protection and insurance of our soldiers on the streets of Belgium. I congratulate you on your fight against terror, which you once again waged with our F-16s over Syria and Iraq. I congratulate you on a number of measures in the field of staff that you have taken and which I will continue to support. I do not take it at all that I am being put away in a certain way as an unsophisticated roaring buoy tearing down everything you say to the ground. You probably don't know me yet, but I have too much respect for Defence, our boys and girls in our battalions and companies in Belgium and abroad. In that sense, I simply do not accept that you want to portray me as someone who is always against your policy or against your person, let alone whether you are a man or a woman, because that is certainly not relevant, that is simply not true. You are our MOD, our Minister of Defence, and I am an opposition member. I'm trying to keep a close eye on the DOD. I hope that we will be able to work together in the coming years, because I believe that this is necessary for our country, for defence, but also for our international cooperation within NATO and other organisations. That's the ambition. What you say about the tone and all that may be, but I am certainly trying to emphasise the good things. That is the way I treat you very correctly. If something's positive, I'm the first to say it's okay. It's a matter of being correct. You know that, by the way. If that is not the case, then I think we should discuss such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u147	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u148	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1654/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1654/4) The bill has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u150	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1597: Michel De Maegd, André Flahaut, Samuel Cogolati, Els Van Hoof, Goedele Liekens, Vicky Reynaert, Wouter De Vriendt; - 1572: Georges Dallemagne, Peter De Roover, Vanessa Matz, Maxime Prévot, Catherine Fonck, Josy Arens, François De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u151	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. This is not (Rgt 85, 4) (1597/8) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1597/8) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on External Relations discussed the following three proposals for resolutions at its meetings on 24 November and 2 December 2020. The first is to support the initiatives taken by Belgium and the international institutions to reach a ceasefire and a lasting solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, which is document No. 1572 by Mr Dallemagne and his associates. The second proposal was tabled by Mr De Maegd and his associates and concerns the conflict over Karabach and the war since 27 September, which is document No. 1597. A third proposal, document No. 1655, was tabled by Mr De Roover on the establishment of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Artsakh. At the meeting on 24 November, the applicants presented their proposals. However, Mr Dallemagne regretted that the Chamber of Representatives had not responded to the request for urgent consideration of his proposal, which had already been adopted on 15 October 2020. At that time, the battles were still in full swing and had already claimed many victims. The offensive conducted by Azerbaijan with the help of Turkey and jihadist militias from Syria has led to war crimes. Mr Dallemagne stressed the need for Belgium to join forces to defend the rule of law and to oppose these war crimes. There must be constructive cooperation between the majority and the opposition on this issue. Mr Dallemagne stressed that the Chamber had lost valuable time in making its voice heard at international level. He referred to the positions already taken by the Flemish Parliament, the Dutch Parliament and the French Senate. Mr Dallemagne hopes that the resolution that will be adopted by the Chamber will not be purely cosmetic, but it will dare to name the crimes and their perpetrators in order to prevent other crimes. The victims and criminals on equal footing would be absolutely scandalous. Mr Dallemagne then outlined the poignant situation on the ground, where horrific events were still taking place at the time. Prisoners of war will be killed without question. Citizens are being tortured. The bodies of deceased soldiers are humiliated. Prayer places and Armenian heritage are plundered. The proposers are also asking for the immediate cessation of atrocities and are asked to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. Countries such as Azerbaijan and Turkey have to account for their part in committing these war crimes. The crimes committed must be prosecuted by the International Court of Justice and the political leaders must account for those horrible acts. The international community must therefore call Turkey to account. Mr Dallemagne pointed out that although a ceasefire had entered into on 9 November 2020, Nagorno-Karabakh did not have a definitive status. Azerbaijan continues to claim that territory, although it has always been Armenian, and calls for Nagorno-Karabakh to be able to become independent in order to prevent further conflicts and permanent ethnic cleansing. The speaker also stressed the need to protect the heritage, for Azerbaijan, for example, has destroyed the largest Armenian cemetery, and also called on the federal government to contribute to reconstruction and humanitarian aid. Mr Michel De Maegd presented his proposal, presented his historical explanation and also outlined the distressing situation on the ground. Mr De Maegd regretted the passivity of the international community. A lot of lives could have been saved, but only after seven weeks of fighting did the weapons remain silent due to Russia's intervention and the military defeat of Armenia. Mr De Maegd stressed that prohibited weapons had been used. Mercenaries have participated in the fights, civilians have been bombed, Nagorno-Karabakh has been the scene of torture, decapitations, abuse and so on. The international community must carry out an investigation and combat impunity. The speaker identified a number of challenges: ensuring transparency and conducting an on-the-spot investigation to determine whether the atrocities committed have actually taken place, forcing a ceasefire that can be controlled in a neutral way, assisting citizens who wish to return home, helping to rebuild public services and prayer houses, restarting a negotiation process leading to a final status for Nagorno-Karabakh and creating a secure corridor between Nagorno-Karabakh and Armenia. In his proposal, Mr De Roover emphasized the establishment of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Artsakh. In the absence of recognition of that status and due to the reluctance of the international community, Azerbaijan believed that it could attack the people of Nagorno-Karabakh completely unpunished. All elements are present to acknowledge the independence of the Republic of Artsakh, he says, referring to the Montevideo convention, but that can happen at different stages. Mr De Roover mentioned the examples of Taiwan, Kosovo and Palestine. This motion for a resolution calls on the Federal Government to establish friendly relations with the Republic of Artsakh and to show its leaders a willingness to enter into diplomatic relations. In the event of a positive reaction from the Republic of Artsakh it is proposed to start negotiations on the establishment of a diplomatic mission on the territory of Belgium. The Government is also invited to grant diplomatic privileges to a representative of the Republic of Artsakh in Brussels similar to those enjoyed by the representations of other non-approved States in our country, and to inform the Chamber of Representatives on a regular basis about the progress of this process. The full international recognition of the sovereignty of Artsakh would be the keystone of a political process. Mr De Roover says that in recent weeks many parts of the territory have once again fallen into Azerbaijani hands. The passivity of the international community could lead to the complete annexation of Nagorno-Karabakh and a new flow of refugees. This conflict has led to the brutal repression of an ethnic group and the destruction of its heritage. Azerbaijan is actively supported by Turkey and Syrian fighters. Mr De Roover concluded that the establishment of diplomatic relations with Artsakh would certainly be a form of support for the Armenian people, but it could also have a deterrent effect on Azerbaijan's aggression. In the general discussion, all the speakers from the various groups, Mr Cogolati, Mrs Reynaert, Mrs Van Hoof, Mr Ben Accour, Mr De Vuyst and Mrs Samyn, as well as the authors of the above proposals, condemned the war crimes committed in the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. All speakers are also very concerned about the humanitarian situation on the ground. A number of speakers also pointed out that Mr De Maegd's proposal regarding a condemnation of Turkey's role in the proposal was very reluctant. Mr De Maegd announced that he would table several amendments to take account of the changed situation in the region. It mentions Turkey by name. His motion for a resolution does not want to throw oil on the fire, but rather to provide diplomacy with an instrument to try to resolve the conflict. It may be useful to show nuance in that sense. The committee decides on the proposal for resolution No. President. - I call Mr De Maegd. The Foreign Affairs Committee continued its work on the proposal on 2 December 2020. Various amendments were tabled by the various members of the committee, including Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Samyn, Mr Dallemagne, Mr De Roover and Mr De Maegd, concerning the actualization of the situation of the conflict. A number of opposition and majority groups have tabled amendments which adopt a more critical or self-condemning attitude towards the role of Turkey in the whole of this conflict. It is mentioned, among other things, that Azerbaijan has deployed Syrian mercenaries with the help of Turkey. Amendments were also tabled by various groups concerning the humanitarian situation in the protection of cultural heritage. Mr Dallemagne, Mr De Roover and Mrs Samyn tabled amendments separately to establish diplomatic relations with the Republic of Artsakh. Mr Dallemagne and Mrs Samyn pointed out the importance of the recognition of the Republic of Artsakh itself. The proposal was approved by all parties. The PTB-PVDA group abstained. Mr De Vuyst pointed out that his group was prepared to support the original motion for a resolution, because its considerations and requests were in balance. However, with the amended proposal, the neutrality of the original proposal has been lost, Mr De Vuyst. The N-VA asked for the vote on Mr De Roover's proposal on the establishment of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Artsakh. The proposal was rejected by 12 votes to 4. The N-VA and the Flemish interest support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u153	Madam President, a number of texts have been prepared. We would have liked to have supported and co-signed the text tabled by Mr Dallemagne. There is no doubt that we are working with the other text, which was certainly somewhat unbalanced for us in the original version. The text was not to mention certain things very clearly. There was a degree of caution in this regard which brought the motion close to the lack of substance. It should also be noted that since then, unfortunately, developments in the field have not stopped. New situations have developed which were certainly not in favour of the Armenian people. Those situations have also contributed to the progressive understanding of the applicants. Turkey's attitude could not be ignored either. The two texts have then grown towards each other. They have grown enough towards each other for us to support them. The signal that Parliament must send here is, of course, more important than the discussion on points and commas. This is not the resolution for the A-Z resolution as we would have wished it to be, but we will support it. We will approve them, just as we did in committee, because they have been tightened up and because the text must send out the message that we must not remain silent about aggression, supported by Turkey and even with the efforts of Syrian fighters. However, we have tabled an additional text which was unfortunately not accepted. In this we insist on establishing diplomatic relations with Artsakh. We have done so in a way that is difficult to call rude or in conflict with international plowing. We wanted to start a process. After all, it is our firm belief that the total lack of international attention, I will not use the word recognition for a conflict that has been going on for decades, indeed perhaps has come across to Azerbaijan as a kind of free-traded one, a free-traded one, to indeed start aggression as we have unfortunately known in recent months. It is our belief that the start of a process of diplomatic recognition, within a process which is also taking place with regard to other regions and regions which do not have full recognition, could in future make it clear to Azerbaijan that it cannot do its job without impunity in this region. I still think it's a missed opportunity. I do not understand the reluctance of the majority parties, because those are those who have not gone along. Mr Dallemagne, as a member of the CdH Group, had no voting rights in committee. I assume that his voting behaviour will be reflected in the plenum. Unfortunately, that was not the case in committee. The majority parties showed their cold shoulder here, in relation to a justified concern and a legitimate desire of the residents of Artsakh. I would just like to point out that, at the time we discussed it in committee, the French Senate had a vote on a similar and, in fact, more far-reaching proposal, except for one vote. That was accepted in the French Senate. I repeat that I am very sorry that this assembly did not have the courage to take that step. We will not withdraw our support for the reworked motion for a resolution for the reason I indicated. We hope for the broadest possible approval, but our concern, our disappointment at the rejection of the proposal we have put forward to establish diplomatic relations with Artsakh, I would like to repeat here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of September there was an extremely violent conflict, an attack by Azerbaijani forces on the territory of Nagorny Karabakh. As the fighting raged, thousands of civilians were forced into exile or died under bombs, the international community was primarily concerned about the coronavirus pandemic. The Committee of the Armenians of Belgium, anxious to raise awareness among political decision-makers, has contacted parliamentarians and citizens. With regard to the Socialist Party, it was essential to act. In that capacity, on 15 October 2020, in plenary, I called on the Minister of the Interior, who represented the Prime Minister, to bring the matter to the attention of Belgium, both at European level and at the National Security Council. A few weeks later, through this motion for a resolution, we take note of the fact that the unilateral declaration of a ceasefire by Azerbaijan in fact ignores the long-standing work of the Minsk Group. This resolution expresses the hope that an international mechanism for monitoring the ceasefire will be established and denounces the use of cluster bombs and phosphorous bombs that are prohibited by international law. Belgium, in particular Mr Mahoux, has very often played a role in banning the use of such weapons. Parliament is going to take a strong decision today to achieve a lasting solution in Nagorny Karabakh based on respect for international law. We cannot content ourselves with a ceasefire declaration that is certainly not a peace agreement. The solution must be developed in a sustainable and long-term manner, ensuring full respect for human rights and the protection of civilians. For the Socialist Group, the Minsk Group is best placed to pursue negotiations for a lasting settlement of the conflict, in particular under its mandate established by the United Nations and recalled by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. In particular, the United States, France and Germany will have to play their part in this process. On the eve of the International Human Rights Day, it is also essential to ensure the security of all civilian populations and to provide them with the humanitarian assistance they need. It was in this sense that the text was drafted in collaboration with Mr. De Maegd and other representatives of this assembly. The proposal is therefore supported by the Socialist Group. Moreover, a similar text is being discussed in other assemblies, such as the Senate and the Parliaments of Wallonia, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Brussels-Capital Region. Thank you for your attention and for the work done by each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u155	Madam President, I mentioned in the report that the final compromise amendment shows a more critical attitude towards Turkey's involvement in this conflict, and that is only logical. The initial caution which exhaled the original proposal regarding the role of Turkey, and where Armenia and the Republic of Artsakh were thrown almost at the same hope as Azerbaijan, and by enlargement Turkey, was adjusted, while it should be pointed out that Armenia and the people of Artsakh did not cause conflict, but only suffered foreign aggression and attempted nothing but to defend their territory, their culture and their people. The military conflict appears to be frozen for the time being, apart from sporadic aggressions from the Azarian angle, but you all know that it is only a matter of time before this conflict flares up again, especially after the statements of the President of Azerbaijan who is threatening to destroy the Armenians militaryly. In our view, this resolution puts too much hope in the European Union. When the fighting was still under way at the beginning of October, the High Representative Josep Borrell expressed some concern, but that was about it. The Turks were given some assertiveness. Borrell could only take note of the words of Azerbaijan's Foreign Minister to him:"The fight will continue until Armenia accepts a concrete schedule for redrawn from Nagorno-Karabakh, which is a precondition for talks." In the long run, we should still be grateful to Russia that Artsakh has not been completely overwhelmed and wiped off the map. Our group deeply regrets the passive attitude of political leaders in Europe. An Armenian lady sent me the following message a few weeks ago, which summarizes everything: "Armenia has no raw materials to offer, only culture and history. That is why we are left to our fate by the international community." Sad words, but unfortunately they contain nothing but truth. With the expression of concerns Armenia and the Armenian people in Artsakh still had to live up to it. These people were shamefully abandoned by the West and the European Union. Armenia and the population in Artsakh faced only a force majeure of Azeric soldiers, assisted by Turkish soldiers and jihadists. Ladies and gentlemen, a possible signal from the European Union was to look forward to the last European Council with the Heads of Government on 10 and 11 December. There the Council could at last have reached the only possible conclusion regarding Turkey's candidacy as a candidate country of the European Union, the action that the EU could have taken. Apparently, it was still unclear to the Heads of Government, because the High Representative Borrell asked himself a few weeks ago in the European Parliament what action the EU could take. We repeat, the only action that the EU should have taken is the permanent cessation of the accession talks with Turkey. This also applies, of course, to any financial assistance in the form of pre-accession aid or possible support in the context of neighbourhood policy. Another action the EU should have taken is to stop financial support to Azerbaijan in the context of its neighbourhood policy. In 2019 and 2020, this support amounted to around €27 million. However, the conclusions of the same European Council do not mention Nagorno-Karabakh. However, a page is devoted to the Eastern Mediterranean, where Turkey is being pointed out for its unilateral actions with the associated aggressive tone towards the EU. However, there is no mention of Turkey's dirty role in the conflict in Artsakh. This is yet another battle in the face of the Armenians and Armenians in Artsakh, especially since on the same Thursday 10 December, during the European Council in Baku, a military parade was held to celebrate the joint victory of Turkey and Azerbaijan over the Armenian people of Nagorno-Karabakh. Both heads of state, Erdogan and Aliyev, have spoken triumphantly there. In addition, Erdogan declared in a fierce speech, saying hate speech steeped with attacks against the Armenians, that the battle that was waged in the military and political field would henceforth continue on many other fronts. The Turkish president also glorified the memory of Enver Pasha, one of the three chief responsible for the genocide on the Armenians in 1915 and bearer of the ideology of panturkism. He also glorified the victory of Commander Nuri Pasha in the Islamic army of the Caucasus, referring to the battalion of the Ottoman army consisting of Azeri's and the commander, who continued the politics of the depraved Ottoman Empire shortly after the Armenian genocide, a policy of massacres and ethnic cleansing. I am therefore once again referring to the very active and involved role of the loyal NATO ally Turkey. In addition to using Syrian jihadists, Turkey has deliberately bombed schools, churches, historical monuments and hospitals together with Azerbaijan, not to mention the use of cluster munitions against civilian targets and the use of chemical weapons. What the European Council should have done last week is, once and for all, to get rid of the delusion of a pseudo-western Turkey as a candidate country. Turkey has repeatedly proven that it does not want to be a loyal ally and therefore does not belong in this European Union. We are therefore tabling amendments to that effect. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, another important element that I would like to highlight is the call for every effort to be made, together with the European Union, to help rebuild the destroyed or damaged buildings and to provide humanitarian assistance to the local population. Please do not let us just depend on the EU for providing humanitarian assistance. From Belgium, as was the case in France, let us send immediate and direct aid from NGOs, humanitarian, medical and logistical aid to Artsakh to help the civilian population on the ground quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, as already stated in committee, the text does not refer to the status of Artsakh as such. Reference is made purely to negotiations within the Minsk Group on the final territorial status of the region. We believe that not only diplomatic relations should be established with the Republic of Artsakh, but that Belgium should also have the courage to be the first country in the world to recognise the Republic of Artsakh as an independent sovereign state. In addition to the protection of the civilian population concerned and the Armenian heritage, this fact would be of enormous value to the Armenians in Artsakh, Armenia and diaspora, demonstrating our sincere solidarity as an ally in a just struggle. The historical and international legal basis is sufficiently strong. That is why we are tabling a motion for a resolution, but today we are doing so in the form of amendments to this compromise text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been deeply shaken by the deadly fighting in the Nagorny Karabakh region between September and November. The images that have come to us of torture, summary executions and even decapitation of Armenian soldiers by mercenaries embezzled by Azerbaijan face the camera are unbearable. During these weeks of fighting, it was a further escalation in a frozen conflict, which in reality bears its name badly between Armenia and Azerbaijan. As you know, Nagorny Karabakh is an Armenian enclave within the territory of Azerbaijan. This political situation could have been resolved when the Soviet republics gained independence in 1991. Unfortunately, unrest has erupted as a result of difficulties in bringing people of different ethnic and religious backgrounds together. Armenia has evolved towards a democratic regime, while Azerbaijan has experienced a more authoritarian regime. The role of the regional powers, Russia, Turkey and Iran, is fundamental to the evolution of this conflict. Local people want to live in peace. The Armenian people were severely affected by genocide and their reunification could not be achieved after the First World War. The Minsk Group, co-chaired by France, the United States and Russia, was mandated by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to reach a diplomatic agreement. Unfortunately, no negotiations have been concluded to date. The dramatic follow-up is known: a resumption of hostilities by Azerbaijan, which has led to the loss of more than 5,000 lives. After several unsuccessful attempts at a ceasefire and after a military defeat of Armenia, an agreement was finally reached on 9 November, under the aegis of Russia. Since then, we have had confirmation of a great deal of information about what really happened during this conflict. The role of Turkey, the use of Syrian mercenaries on the spot, the acts of torture practised, the use of prohibited weapons, such as cluster bombs, and I am passing. Worse, since the official end of hostilities, crimes and executions continue to be perpetrated while the Turkish Parliament has voted to send observers to the region. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that is the context in which this motion for a resolution was drafted. In my view, Belgium could not remain silent in the face of what happened. The text we are about to vote on is important. He dares to name things by name, without taboo and seeks to provide concrete and strong answers. Azerbaijan is responsible for the resumption of hostilities. Turkey's role is repeatedly stressed and condemned, particularly with regard to the sending of jihadists to the region. We stress that two of the three principles of the Minsk Group have been violated, namely, the non-use of force and the right to self-determination of the Armenian population of Nagorny Karabakh. In total, no fewer than 28 requests are made. Of course, we demand that the ceasefire be strictly respected by the parties. In this regard, we call for support for the establishment of an independent monitoring mechanism for ceasefire violations, including the Minsk Group's proposal. Beyond that, we also stress the urgent need for exchanges of prisoners and remains. We plead for every effort with the European Union to contribute to the reconstruction of destroyed or damaged buildings and to provide humanitarian aid to the local population. We call for support for the dispatch of a UNESCO mission to preserve the architectural and religious heritage in Nagorny Karabakh and adjacent territories controlled by Azerbaijan. We also call for Belgium to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the European Union has a strong and ambitious position to support this Minsk Group. This is essential in order to reach a final conclusion of the negotiations it is conducting so that a solution can be found. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that the vote on this resolution would be a strong position on the part of our House. The international community remained too passive, that is true, during this conflict. The European Union remained generally silent. Unfortunately, the efforts of our Government and our diplomacy, which have been recalled to us several times here, have not yet produced the desired results. It is therefore time to give our government a strong mandate. The situation on the ground remains very complex. The ceasefire remains precarious, as has been further demonstrated by the exchanges of gunfire denounced by Russia this weekend. It is imperative to remain particularly vigilant and to allow the Minsk Group to continue and intensify its work towards a peaceful and lasting solution to the protracted conflict. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote massively, as you did in the Committee on External Relations, in favour of this resolution. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u157	Madam President, Mr Van Hoof expressed her doubts about the Russia-mediated ceasefire in previous discussions in the Chamber. There were, are and remain several reasons for that. The agreement was clearly reached with the knife on the throat of Armenia. The agreement is not supported by the people of all the parties concerned. The agreement provided for the sending of peacekeeping forces by Russia, but now Turkey is also sending observers, in consultation and after consultation with Russia. The exchange of territories provided for in the agreement obliges entire families to leave their homes and leave. So our fears have become reality. This is certainly demonstrated by the fighting that has re-emerged in the south of Nagorno-Karabakh in which people were killed and wounded. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no sustainable solution without a real response to the root causes. Today's resolution identifies structural solutions. The amendments have strengthened the text and thus improved it. That was necessary. Azerbaijan's aggression must be condemned and condemned. Turkish support with foreign mercenaries is condemned. The use of cluster and phosphorus bombs is condemned. All those elements that are condemned are also considered and confirmed by the UN as proven. A solution will only be possible within the OSCE Minsk Group. Only a structural solution will be possible within a multilateral framework. There will only be a structural solution with international research, with a UN peacekeeping force and with a reconstruction programme. They are necessary to give perspective to the population. She deserves that. We shall therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Labour Party, we are still in favour of the resolution as originally tabled by the government parties, because we believe that this was indeed a balanced resolution, which should only be updated because some things had become obsolete in the meantime. We were somewhat surprised, as I said at the committee meeting, that UN Resolution 884 was originally not included in the resolution tabled. We found this strange because the UN resolution constitutes the framework, the architecture on the basis of which the Minsk Group was launched, which sets out a path towards lasting and negotiated long-term peace. We embraced the resolution because the conflict has been dragging on for far too long in a region that is already destabilised by endless wars and sanctions. It is therefore high time for a fair and balanced solution to take account of the interests of all parties concerned, based on international law, so that there can be a breakthrough and there is at last a prospect of lasting success. A purely military decision can and will never provide a solution, as has been shown by developments since 1994. Unfortunately, whether the Minsk Group is the ideal instrument to guide that process and ultimately reach a solution will not be resolved here in Parliament. For us, the most important thing was to call for negotiations and to seek a diplomatic solution to the conflict rather than resorting to military power. A resolution with similar content was also presented in the Flemish Parliament, where our PVDA group also supported it. The majority parties subsequently updated the text of the resolution. However, I think it was just a bit more than an update. It is a plus that this included UN Resolution 884, but we do have reservations about the request 3 from the resolution as it stands. An agreement reached with great difficulty could be undermined by an additional requirement and by suggesting that the agreement is not acceptable because the Minsk Group was not involved. In the circumstances, this was rather counterproductive and would jeopardise the agreement and peace rather. It would immediately make the negotiations that are being conducted more difficult. The PVDA strongly condemns any violation of international humanitarian law and supports the intention to reach a lasting solution through dialogue and mediation, based on international law. Of course, we also condemn any illegal interference by third parties in this conflict. It is also self-evident that it will eventually reach a lasting solution for the Armenian people and Nagorno-Karabakh within that consultative body, i.e. within the Minsk Group. On the basis of the reservations I have just expressed, we will abstain from this new amended version of the majority parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u159	Madam President, you are obviously aware of my colleague Dallemagne's commitment to this issue. I see someone wants to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u160	Madam President, I would also like to intervene, but I shall first speak to Mrs Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on this text, we regret the time it took for the majority to react, and the fact that our proposal of 15 October 2020 was denied the benefit of urgency by the majority. By the time the fighting raged and had already claimed many victims, war crimes were committed during the offensive led by Azerbaijan with the help of Turkey and Syrian jihadist militias. On 27 October, the majority proposed a resolution that was so vague that it was offensive to the victims. It was a language of diplomatic wood so shocking for those who were subjected to the Turkish and Israeli drones and the assaults of Syrian mercenaries that it resonated almost as an encouragement for the perpetrators of war and crimes. By the voice of Georges Dallemagne, we strongly denounced it. We can't send back victims and executioners. Georges Dallemagne proposed 26 amendments to this original text. On 2 December, the majority tabled a comprehensive amendment to replace the entire motion for a resolution; we welcome the work done by its sponsors. In this new version, more than half of Georges Dallemagne's amendments have been incorporated. We regret that this text could not be the subject of joint work more quickly, beyond the divisions of majority and opposition. The major issues of foreign policy deserve better than procrastination or partisan cleavages. The current text was still perfectable but was no longer hurting the victims who had been subjected to aggression by Azerbaijan and jihadist mercenaries with the help of Turkey. It was important to condemn the aggression perpetrated by Azerbaijani troops and Turkey's actions. We would have liked the text to go even further, in particular on the status of the territory of Nagorny Karabakh, which is still not clarified. Wartime statements continue on the side of Turkey and Azerbaijan, which raise new concerns. They are potentially leading to new crimes. We believe that Nagorny Karabakh must be able to choose a destiny outside Azerbaijan that has repeatedly demonstrated its will to eradicate the Armenian population from that territory. Last Thursday, during a military parade held in Baku to celebrate the joint victory of Turkey and Azerbaijan over the Armenian population of Nagorny Karabakh, the two presidents made speeches with strong hostility towards the Armenians. Erdoğan stated that the struggle that had been waged so far in the military and political sphere would now continue on many different fronts. The Turkish president glorified the memory of Enver Pasha, one of the three main sponsors of the 1915 Armenian genocide and the thurifer of Panturism. In particular, he glorified the victory of Commander Nouri Pasha and the Islamic Army of the Caucasus, with reference to the battalions of the Ottoman army composed of Azeris and its commander who, shortly after the Armenian genocide in the Ottoman Empire, pursued in the Caucasus the policy of massacre and ethnic cleansing already implemented by the Ottoman Empire. Azerbaijan's president, for his part, affirmed Baku's ambitions for Yerevan, the Zanguezour region and the Lake Sevan region. These regions represent a large part of the territory of the current Republic of Armenia. The message of the two Heads of State is clear: after having emptied Western Armenia from its Armenian population during the 1915 genocide, the Nakhichevan region during the 20th century and now Nagorny Karabakh, Erdoğan and Aliyev joined forces to complete the work of their ancestors, according to the Turkish President's formulation. Despite these shortcomings, we will support the current text, but we call on the government to react firmly to the recent scandalous statements at the Baku parade of Turkish and Azerbaijani leaders Erdoğan and Aliyev.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u162	Madam President, this motion for a resolution, which was also signed by my party colleague, Goedele Liekens, who apologized, is too important, and I would therefore like to say something about it on behalf of our group. Even though a ceasefire has been signed, our group remains extremely concerned about the fate of the citizens of Nagorno-Karabakh and the humanitarian consequences. Now a truce has been signed, but that is far from a peace agreement. The ceasefire does not solve the conflict at all. The images of Armenians burning their own houses and destroying their life's work are not peace and hope. It is therefore not justified that the agreement was not first discussed in the Minsk Group of the OSCE. The Armenian people have the right to live in peace, security and security, and we doubt whether this can be done under the current ceasefire. The inhabitants of Nagorno-Karabakh need humanitarian aid and must also be helped in the reconstruction process. The ceasefire does not respond to the status of Nagorno-Karabakh and leaves the population mainly in uncertainty. The demands are therefore very clear: the Armenian people must be protected; international observers and a UN peacekeeping force must be given access to the area; there must be a safe return to the citizens of Nagorno-Karabakh; security must be constantly monitored; the Armenian monuments must be protected; humanitarian aid for reconstruction must be provided, in addition to the EUR 3.9 million already promised by the European Union; the war crimes committed must be investigated by independent bodies and those responsible must also be justified. A temporary agreement doesn't mean war criminals can go free. There must be justice for the many innocent victims. Let me make it very clear: the human rights of the local people of Nagorno-Karabakh and the surrounding areas prevail. No territorial claim can be made as a reason to violate human rights and international humanitarian law. That is why we condemn Azerbaijan's military offensive. Only the Minsk Group of the OSCE can conclude a lasting, peaceful and stable agreement on the status of the region. The European Union's passive attitude has actually disappointed us. We therefore call on the Foreign Minister to be high on the Council's agenda and continue to call for a more active and active role of the European Union for the region in question. Our group will therefore be following the situation there closely, certainly in the interests of the inhabitants and of their safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know on 27 September 2020, deadly fighting broke out in Nagorny Karabakh between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces. This war has been rigged by violent fighting, bombing, the use of mercenaries, and by a very heavy number of victims: young soldiers, but also many innocent civilians, have died in a war that has also generated hundreds of refugees. Moreover, Azerbaijan's large-scale armed attack was accompanied by very serious violations of the norms of international humanitarian law. The Minsk Group, convened by the OSCE, was mandated to assist the parties in finding a solution to the conflict and to determine the final status of the territory. Unfortunately, as we have seen so far, the negotiations have not produced any significant final results. Indeed, three mediations have been established, allowing the two parties to agree on a ceasefire and a resumption of negotiations. However, none of them has yet been successful. At present, despite Russia's latest agreement, the status of Nagorny Karabakh remains unclear. The war of 2020, ladies and gentlemen, is also the failure of 30 years of international diplomacy. It is therefore the responsibility of all countries to weigh their weight, finally, with a view to a peaceful and non-military solution. This cease-fire was already violated last weekend by the Azeri, as Moscow itself confirmed. Therefore, through Mr Dallemagne's proposal which we signed, but also through the text which was finally adopted, we must support the initiatives put in place to achieve a ceasefire and the resolution of this conflict. We must also insist on the immediate resumption of peace negotiations with the full participation of the representatives of the people of Nagorny Karabakh, who are the main affected by this conflict. We fully condemn the violations of human rights and war crimes that have taken place, in particular because human rights must always take precedence over questions of territory and sovereignty. It is also important for the Government to consider the possibility of providing humanitarian assistance to the newly displaced persons of Nagorny Karabakh. We will, of course, support this text, while, like some of my colleagues, indicating that it would probably be necessary for the Belgian State to give serious consideration to the question of the recognition of the Republic of Artsakh and that territory. In any case, we are ready to work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u164	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u165	Madam President, I explained my amendments in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u166	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u167	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u168	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michel De Maegd, Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Els Van Hoof, André Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u169	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. This is not (Rgt 85, 4) (923/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (923/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Ponthier, who is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u170	Ms. Ponthier follows a digital city council in her office. If you would like an oral report, I can ask her to come here. But if it is not a problem for Mr Francken, in the meantime, the entire N-VA group is absent, she can refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u171	Madam President, I think Mr. De Maegd took an interesting initiative by putting forward a proposal that dealt only with genocide. Together, we have decided not to limit ourselves to a single service but to extend the whole and to make 9 December here in Parliament a special day of awareness of all genocides, by involving young people without falling into an additional colloquium but trying to have a real awareness at a time when in some of our institutions, in some cases, some things are forgotten. I believe that every initiative deserves to be supported to bring more learning to citizenship from an early age by starting with this place which is par excellence the place of democracy of our State. Thank you, Mr De Maegd, for your initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u172	Madam Chair, Mr Flahaut has been actively involved, advising me on some of the meetings, in the drafting of this text. This text was from the very beginning, from the first second I wrote, a text that paid tribute to the victims of all the genocides officially recognised by the Belgian State. Let's be clear! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we were on 9 December. On that day, under the auspices of the United Nations, we celebrated the International Day for the Commemoration of the Victims of the Crime of Genocide, the affirmation of their dignity and the prevention of this crime, an international day without any official act of the Belgian State at the moment. The purpose of this day is to raise awareness of the Genocide Convention and its role in combating it as defined in the Convention and to commemorate its victims. Given the importance of the crimes in question, given the importance of commemorating and preventing other such acts, it seems to me important that Belgium take an active part in this international day. Indeed, Belgium has recognized in its history several genocides: the Shoah, the genocide of the Tutsis, the massacre of Srebrenica, the crimes of the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia and the genocide of Armenians. Our country itself was directly or indirectly involved in the Holocaust and in the genocide in Rwanda. Survivors of these genocides, members of decimated families live on our soil. Historians and associations are very active so that the flame of memory never goes away. If some are already the subject of official commemorations, this is not the case for all to date and to dedicate one day to all these genocides officially recognized by the Belgian State will allow to commemorate the memory of all their victims. Of course and unfortunately, this list is not frozen. If other mass crimes were to occur in their turn, recognised by Belgium, the memory of their victims would obviously be commemorated on that occasion. The purpose of this proposal is therefore to ask the government to set up, on 9 December, a national day dedicated to the memory of all the genocides officially recognised by our country. On the Friday closest to that date, a day of reflection on the issue of genocide will be held here in the House. It will consist of a ceremonial ceremony enhanced by the presence of a member of the federal government and a colloquium bringing together experts and memory smugglers, while involving youth and civil society. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to commemorate is to honour the memory of those who, innocent and by millions, have paid with their lives the indescribable abomination of genocide. It's about asserting their dignity. Affirming their dignity is not a vain word. It is a duty, a highly moral duty in a society in full change that is accelerating and in which time, that of reflection, of remembrance, of recollection, is too often lacking; a society in which those who have accompanied these abominations are, over time, necessarily becoming increasingly rare and where, more than ever, it is necessary to maintain memory, to be the smugglers of memory among the younger generations with rigor and integrity so that the message they have left us is neither distorted nor forgotten, but passed on tirelessly because, as Albert Camus wrote, "To name things is to add to the misfortune of this world." It is only on this condition that we can do our best to prevent this crime, hic and nunc, here and now, but also across borders, generations, prejudices and particular interests which, unfortunately, too often undermine the general interest. Some might find this proposal purely symbolic, but for me, in this respect, symbols have a meaning and make it possible to change mindsets. So if this text can contribute to it, it would be a real victory, our common victory for the benefit of the common good. Ladies and gentlemen, my proposal, for which I have been scrapping for months, has received very good unanimity in committee. I am particularly proud and happy. May the House in plenary show an equally strong signal by massively supporting it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u173	Madam President, we welcome this initiative, which we obviously support. The crime of genocide is the most serious and terrible crime against humanity. It's imprescriptible. Beyond all imaginable massacres, it is the desire to systematically eliminate an entire people because of their difference. By committing a crime of genocide, its perpetrators threaten humanity as a whole. Commemorations, the recognition of genocides and the suppression of negationism are part of the building of European identity and our duty to remember. Such a day will not only commemorate the victims of genocide. It will also be an opportunity to condemn negationism and to work for its prevention and repression. We welcome the fact that it is a matter of commemorating all the crimes recognized by Belgium, not only those that are the subject of a judicial decision, thus including the genocide of the Armenians by the Ottoman Empire of 1915, which we have just mentioned. The law has yet to be completed so that the negationism of this genocide can also be penalized. This work remains to be done. We will actively contribute to that. The recognition of genocides, commemorations and repression of negationism are the foundations of European citizenship and of a humanistic society that allows reconciliation between peoples.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr De Maegd for his initiative, which my group will support with conviction on Thursday. In our view, this text is an important new step in our indispensable memory work. Five years ago, the General Assembly of the United Nations declared 9 December the International Day of Commemoration of Victims of the Crime of Genocide, of Affirming Their Dignity and of Prevention of Genocide. Our country has always been proactive in the defence of human rights. It was therefore logical that Belgium should respond to the call of the United Nations by setting up, every 9 December, a national day dedicated to the memory of the victims of all the genocides officially recognized by our country, with an official ceremony. As stated in the commission, this day will be in addition to the day of January 27, the International Day of Holocaust Commemoration. In doing so, this December 9th day is part of a logic of solidarity between the peoples, among all the peoples who have been victims of genocide. These peoples have experienced the worst denial of humanity, namely their destruction for what they are. They have experienced the rise of a racist ideology, extremist and hate speech that will always incite the most serious crimes, whose genocide is the most inexcusable. It was therefore essential to have a day of common commemoration of these genocides, because the families of the victims share their pains, but also strengthen themselves together. On several occasions, I had the opportunity to note this, during the torch-walk held in Brussels on 7 April 2019 in order to commemorate the twenty-five years of the genocide of the Tutsis in Rwanda, during the colloquium organized at the initiative of the Committee of Armenians of Belgium, on 9 December 2019, on the negationism of genocides, but also on the occasion of the numerous events organized at the initiative of the CCLJ, that each time, Jews, Rwandans and Armenians were present to support each other. This solidarity between peoples who were forever bruised by these genocides has struck me enormously and touched me. That is why I am delighted that it can be officially manifested by our authorities, but also by our citizens every year on 9 December. This day will allow us to honour the memory of the victims, to try to understand how the human being could commit the worst atrocities, but also to recall our intransigence with regard to crimes against humanity – whatever their perpetrators and their time – but also with regard to any act aimed at denying, minimizing or justifying these crimes. This motion for a resolution should therefore be usefully supplemented by a law designed to treat genocide on an equal footing, penalising the negationism of all genocides recognised by Belgium, not only those established by an international court. Moreover, this is the subject of a bill that I have tabled with my colleague François De Smet, and for which I hope, ladies and gentlemen, I will count on your support at the appropriate time. It is an appeal that I had to make to you, ladies and gentlemen, because the recognition of genocide is only symbolic if, in addition to declarations of recognition of genocide, any citizen can deny it, minimize it or justify it under the guise of freedom of expression – Mrs Matz has rightly alluded to it. Indeed, freedom of expression will never exist to justify the unjustifiable or to rewrite history. However, on 9 December we will therefore commemorate these genocides. We will do so with our duty of remembrance, also with a view to protecting our democracy and society from new genocides. This duty is even more acute at a time when new mass massacres are taking place in the world. I am thinking in particular of Burundi. I am thinking of the three million Uighurs Muslims locked up in camps in China, in which they are tortured, confronted with forced labour and killed. I am thinking of the massacres of Christians in many parts of the world. I am thinking of slave markets in Libya, through which thousands of black Africans are sold and beaten. I am thinking of the mass sterilization campaigns launched since 1976 in India that target the poorest populations. It is for them too that we must never forget the horrors of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u175	Madam President, it is not my habit to speak a second time. I would like to point out that at a time when we have been very critical of our institutions and administrations, we have also been able to count on the cooperation of the War Heritage Institute – and Mr. De Maegd won't contradict us. This organization depends on Defence and does a huge work on memory and respect for traditions. He committed himself to supporting the success of the first day. I heard Mrs Rohonyi talk about the Uighurs and minorities. I would like to draw attention to this. Together with Mr Goffin and Mr Laaouej, we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the protection of all minorities in the particular context of covid. We would like this resolution to be discussed quickly in our House, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-15-definitief-55-plenair-ip075x.u176	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 16 December 2020 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, December 16, 2020 at 10:00 a.m.
