ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u1	Madam and Mr Ministers, I apologize for our slight delay. Our legislative work this morning took a little longer than expected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again in a topical debate on the VOCID-19 crisis, with a number of important but nevertheless decreasing issues: 54 questions for Mrs De Block and 17 for Mr. Backer. I would point out that, in a topical debate, all the questions are attached. Therefore, it is not possible to defer your questions or turn them into written questions. You can, however, copy-paste and reintroduce them next week, which in fact is the same as postponing them. But, technically, all the questions are being asked today. On the other hand, I learned that it was still possible to withdraw his questions. Mrs De Block and Mr. From Backer stay with us until 5:30 p.m. We have lost a small quarter of an hour but I think we can adopt the same method of work as the previous times when we also had four hours. That means we have two laps. First of all, there is a rather small first round of questions by the various groups: eight minutes for the groups of three members, five minutes for the groups of two members and three minutes for the members who are alone. Secondly, I will propose a response time, in principle half an hour per minister, about an hour for the two ministers together. A turn of reply, a follow-up reply from the ministers and a second turn of reply will then take place. If everything's all right, we'll normally be done by 5:30 p.m. If anyone has another proposal, let us know, but so far it is the best way to work that we have found between us in this committee. Madame Dedonder, vous souhaitez intervenir.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u2	Mr President, my question is no longer on the agenda. Until yesterday, she was in first position. Now I don't see her at all. I would like to know why it is no longer on the agenda because it is topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u3	The secretariat tells me that this matter has been referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, because it concerns the status of ambulance workers, as Mrs De Block confirms to me. An e-mail was sent to you by the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u4	If an e-mail has been sent to me, it's very recent. In fact, I am only learning this decision from the secretariat now. I wish I had been informed earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u5	This issue is no longer on the agenda of this Committee. I apologize for not informing you earlier. The secretariat shall do its utmost. I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that some of the questions sent are not on the agenda because of a technical problem. However, all groups and Members remain free to speak whenever they wish. Finally, if you want your question to be included in the full report, you must mention the number.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u6	On this subject, Mr President, our group tabled questions on Friday morning, as agreed. As a result of the Pentecost leave, the platform was not accessible, so it was necessary to use e-mail as well as the e-mail address of other collaborators to ensure that the questions were received. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. Our questions have not been included in the agenda and are unlikely to be passed on to ministers, which we regret. The Regulations state that questions must be filed by 11 a.m. So it was once again the technology that prevented us from doing so. This situation is simply unacceptable, especially since it is the second time that it has occurred. I very much hope that there will be no third one because, strangely enough, it is our group again that is the victim of this kind of incident... My colleague and I will nevertheless be part of the debate, but know that we have planned to ask questions that have passed, we do not know where. Every effort should therefore be made to ensure that the computer system works when we need it or, at the very least, to propose an alternative solution so that the issues of all groups and parliamentarians can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u7	Mrs Tillieux, indeed, this is not the first time that the problem has arisen. I will therefore contact the Director of the Commissions Department and the Director of Legislative Services who manage the messaging of oral questions to find out exactly what happened. Indeed, this kind of incident must be avoided. If departmental offices do not receive the questions, it is impossible for them to prepare answers. Having said that, I suggest that you ask your questions and that the ministers answer them to the extent possible, knowing that they will not have the result of the preparatory research. But it is obvious that if the questions are about numbers, the exercise will be more complicated. In any case, given that speaking time is free, you will have the opportunity to ask your questions. I'm going to ask for the light to come out and make sure this kind of incident doesn't happen again. Consideration may need to be given to improving the system and providing an alternative solution in the event of failure of the system. It is important that the discussions can take place in the best possible conditions, that the questions be forwarded to the relevant ministers in a timely manner so that they can respond properly. Mrs Dedonder, I note that the e-mail concerning your question was sent at 11.58 a.m., in other words a little more than two hours before the opening of our sitting. These are the facts. I agree that the deadline was very short. The N-VA Group will be the first to speak, for a total of eight minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u8	Mr President, I would like to refer to my seven questions with Nos. 55006295C, 55006331C, 55006332C, 55006336C, 55006337C, 55006442C and 55006582C
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u9	I also have some additional questions, of which the first two are addressed to Minister De Block. The first concerns the financing of hospitals. Hospitals are subject to a survey to identify costs arising from the COOVID crisis. When will they be informed of the amount they are allowed to book for this purpose? Is it also taking into account the extent to which a hospital has been affected by the COOVID crisis, for example on the basis of the number of patients receiving treatment? How will this be taken into account? Is it already clear which costs can be covered by the support measures? My second question to Minister De Block concerns personal protective equipment. It has been said that compensation would be granted to doctors and dentists who had to purchase additional personal protective equipment. How will this compensation be put into practice? Is there any clarity about that? If not, when can we expect it? I have put a number of questions to Minister De Backer, but I also have a number of additional questions. My additional questions are about the general practitioners who, in many cases, as we have read in the media, want to return to their trusted clinical lab. However, I received messages that make the eyebrows frown. I would therefore like more clarification on this. Is it true that the wipers mainly go to the national testing platform and not to the hospital labs? At a triage centre, wipers were also picked up by Defense, when the triage centre decided to work with the hospital lab again and no longer with the national testing platform. Which test protocol is followed by the national testing platform? The analysis in the clinical laboratories takes several hours, but at the national testing platform it takes up to 36 hours or even longer. Do you agree, Minister, that this is not enough for tracing? How will you cure that? Clinical laboratories were only involved to a limited extent in the testing of PCR samples. Has any attempt been made to involve the clinical laboratories in a network, which would allow a redistribution between the labs that were over-questioned and the labs where they were turning fingers? They were asking for more testing. They also had the capacity to do so, but could not do so. Why did they go straight to the industrial platform and ignore the capacity of the classic labs? Is it true that analysis equipment from other labs, such as veterinary labs, has been used in the industrial platform? Why was it not considered to put these devices in the medical grid, where they could be immediately made operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to my questions which have been going on for a number of weeks and in which we have made a lot of progress. As you know, I am focusing on the care sector and on support for the care staff. As regards home care, you have already announced that the nomenclature will be applied retroactively in the framework of COVID-19, which was an important question from our group. At the last committee meeting we discussed the lack of a nomenclature number for sampling, something which the nurses do well. The question is whether this has been settled in the meantime and whether they will receive compensation for this. As far as the care staff in the institutions are concerned, we have been able to release the additional resources through Parliament. This would be regulated through the BFM, which is important in order to be able to actually allocate these resources to the care staff. What about the bonus? Is he gonna be up there? Is that arranged in the same way, via the BFM? Can you update on this? As far as hospitals are concerned, we have already talked about the billion in advances, for which the most has been arranged. You said that a survey was being carried out on the structural funds for health care institutions, the deadline of which was at the end of last month. I would like to hear from you what the results are, how you are going to work there and what funds you are going to allocate to this badly affected sector, which has had to make huge investments for COVID-19. One final question, about which I am sent from the cabinet to the wall, concerns the face shields. I had it with me at the last committee meeting to show them. I asked you how you felt about that. You said that we should ask the National Security Council and that Minister De Backer is responsible for that. Minister De Backer referred me to the ministers Goffin and Geens, who in turn referred me to Minister De Backer. I'd like an answer from someone. I do not think it is possible for so many ministers to be competent and that this will be an excuse to open the umbrella. Can someone give me a decent answer? Was this considered and what has been decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u11	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I refer to my questions. 55006357C, 55006358C, 55006361C, 55006362C, 55006489C, 55006496C, 55006508C, 55006355C, 55006356C, 55006360C and 55006584C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u12	I would like to go into more detail on the support measures for hospitals. In the Committee on Finance, Mr Clarinval pointed out that the EUR 400 million from the Health Care Staff Fund and EUR 200 million from the IFIC scale could also be used to control hospital costs. Is that right? Is that the way in which you will bear the costs in hospitals, that is through funds granted to put more hands to bed and on which there was consensus in Parliament? How come the High Health Council's advice on wearing mouth masks was not published and was not followed? I also ask that question in the second instance about influenza vaccinations. Here too, the High Health Council's opinion is that the pharmacists would be involved in the flu vaccinations. We all know that the flu vaccinations in autumn will be very important, as will the COOVID-19 vaccinations. Madam Minister, will you take into account the advice of the High Health Council on mouth masks and vaccinations in order to prevent a second wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u13	Madam and Mr Ministers, my question concerns the follow-up to the resolution we voted on on 7 May last in plenary in favour of the proposal put forward by environmentalists, which aimed at the global sharing of data, knowledge and technologies relevant to the prevention, detection and treatment of the VOCID-19 pandemic. This is an initiative that we are holding and which is supported by some 30 international NGOs. This is an essential step for us to broaden research as much as possible and to make it as accessible as possible at both the financial and geographical levels. The resolution called on the government to bring this item to the agenda of the WHO General Assembly on 19 May and to declare that Belgium, like the United Kingdom, Canada, France and Germany, supported the Access to VOCID-19 Tools project. Has this item been included on the agenda? What is the follow-up at the government level? What emerged at the time of the WHO General Assembly? I had a second question for Minister De Backer about ordering ZenTech serological tests. I think 15 days ago, you announced that an order for 3,650,000 tests from ZenTech had been made. I am reminded that there would still be blockages and that this order would not have been placed. I would like to know the reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u14	Madam Minister, in mid-May I took note of a study which showed that there are no basic demographic data on 2,600 fatalities in our country. So we don't know the age or gender of a quarter of the victims. How come we don't have that data? It is important that we have good data so that we can deal with things differently in the future. In countries such as Germany, South Korea and Austria, it also appears that if patients who do not have to go to hospital but can stay at home, as the general practitioners follow very well and very briefly, through an app, the further course of the disease is very mild. Are there guidelines for the general practitioners to follow their patients for a short time? How do you view the approach in these countries? Then I have a question I asked once, but I didn't get an answer. General practitioners can bill five telephone consultations per patient per month. I've been sick myself for the past month. I have to admit, I've called my GP more than five times. I find that strange: while we are promoting that people stay at home and are closely followed by their general practitioner, general practitioners have to do much more work than they are paid for. Data indicate that activities taking place outside present a much lower risk of contamination. We are spoiled with a very nice spring and we are happy with that, but are those data also included in the communication and advice? Do organizers of funerals, marriages, sports classes and schools know enough that they are much less at risk from outdoor activities? Are the outdoor activities and the maximum ventilation, which was again reported in the press today, encouraged? Will there be more communication on that? What's the status with the dentists? I get from a number of dental associations worried messages that not everything is in order with their billing and the compensation for the material they themselves have had to purchase. Is that a matter for you or Minister De Backer, Madam Secretary? I have a very regional question about the hospital in Pelt, Limburg. The interest of Limburg gives figures about all hospitals every day, but never or almost never about Pelt's hospital. I'm getting questions as to why that is and also whether hospitals are obliged to pass on that data. How come in Limburg all hospitals cooperate in the data collection and one doesn't? The surrounding residents are wondering why. I didn't know what was going on, so I'm asking you now. Madam Secretary, I have one last question for you. Last week in the Dutch press, we read that in the last few months only half of the cancer diagnoses have been made in the Netherlands, because there too the non-urgent care has been postponed. Do we already have a view of such figures in Belgium? Do we also have a view on the course of rebooting the non-urgent care? Everything's going according to plan? Do we reach who we need to reach? Mr Minister, I heard that the distribution of the substances mouth masks to the entire population, whose first loads have arrived and whose distribution can now begin, is via the pharmacists and that not all pharmacists are apparently happy with this because they have to set up not only the distribution but also the registration themselves. Can you explain the key? How is cooperation with pharmacists working in this area? It seems that we still have excess capacity in the field of testing. So there is more capacity than there is being tested. When people are tested and have symptoms, it is recommended that everyone of the close contacts stays in quarantine until the results are known. I hear figures that show that the results are very fast. I've seen it myself. I was tested last Tuesday and had to wait until Friday night for the results. That means three and a half days of quarantine with all of them. Since there is overcapacity, why not test the close contacts? Is there a plan or a reason for that? The triage centres themselves indicate that on the basis of the most recent data that appear to have been quarantined for two weeks. Do you have any information that that period may be shorter? Can we not use overcapacity to test close contacts and family members in order to proactively shorten the quarantine period?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u15	Mr President, since my questions have not been taken into account, I will come to two topics which are covered in other topics. For the rest, I will come back with my questions, or I will table them as written questions. I'd like to go back to the screening tests, of course. PCR tests are still not used in our home. In any case, they are only used for target groups: symptomatic people, those requiring hospitalization, etc. However, according to the data available at the Sciensano site, the number of tests carried out is far below the theoretical capabilities we are told to have. The analysis of PCR tests depends on reagents, but this is not the case with serological tests. They should soon be accessible at a maximum rate of €9.6. However, a royal decree still has to determine conditions for access. Until the publication of the order, it remains prohibited to charge patients or compulsory health care insurance for serological tests. This benefit may be taken into account only for requirements from the date of publication of the decree. The tests carried out before this date will of course not be able to be invoiced. The population, as we know, is eager to be tested. So why do the RAG and RMG continue to refuse to move in this direction, to finally broaden the screening criteria? Have you mentioned the management difficulties that persist at the national platform level, which would explain such a low number of tests in recent days? We were talking about three days for the results. I've had four or even five days of echoes. What about the expected progress in serological testing? What are the brakes today? What about our neighbors so they can make comparisons? Given the ease of use, are we going to conduct systematic and regular screenings of caregivers? Minister, my second question concerns the funding of hospitals. It is known that the care of patients VOCID-19 is an additional cost, additional costs of protective equipment, breathing equipment, room layout, but also a loss of earnings for regular benefits, which have not been insured. We talked about a figure of between 5 and 7 billion for the whole sector. According to a rapid assessment, each hospital has a monthly loss of 450,000 euros. However, our citizens need quality hospitals tomorrow, and in order to ensure that they have access, we must support this institution. Minister, do you now have a clear picture of the deficit in the various hospitals? Beyond the cash advance already committed, will you finally give the hospital the guarantee that the state will be able to help them in a concrete way? What funding proposals are at work today? What structural solutions could be implemented? Under the terms of the circular, cash advances appear to be partially recoverable. Do you confirm this information? How? What additional means will be available to allow hospitals to keep their heads out of the water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u16	Minister, I will just talk about this Lancet study, which concluded that hydroxychloroquine is inefficient or even dangerous in the treatment of VOCID-19. As a precaution, WHO announced its decision to temporarily suspend clinical trials including hydroxychloroquine. This announcement has led to a revision of protocols in many countries. In our case, Sciensano has updated the directive for the treatment of in-patient patients. " Significant changes in the use of hydroxychloroquine have been made at the site. Any off-label use, apart from a clinical study, is now strongly discouraged. For these patients, Sciensano only recommends the drug in ongoing clinical trials, after assessing the risks and benefits of the study. In addition, AFMPS has indicated that there is a risk of heart rhythm disorders associated with this medication. Several hospitals, including Erasme and CHU Saint-Pierre, have already stopped hydroxychloroquine therapy for some time. However, criticisms of the scientific world have been made of this study. Indeed, scientists question the private society from which this study comes, the lack of reference for the participants, the statistical analysis or simply the feasibility of such a study, since normally it should have taken more time. For a part of the scientific world, it is surprising to produce such an analysis so quickly, even if things are accelerating since the health crisis. Minister, have any studies, even on a small scale, been conducted in our country regarding the use of hydroxychloroquine? What are the results? Could you give us figures on the number of patients who have been treated with this substance in us? How could Sciensano's recommendations evolve? Do you consider the fears and questions of a part of the scientific world about this Lancet study justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u17	Mr Prévot, we draw your attention to the fact that you have probably been wrong in the numbers. The question you have just asked is 6551. The number you would have referred to is that of a question by Mr Rigot. For services, you refer to question 6551.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u18	Mr President, I was referring to the two questions of Patrick Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u19	Mr. President, it's a classic in our house.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u20	Very quickly, I will return to the registration of the health care staff. I mentioned the matter a few days ago. Today, the figures provided by Fedris raise questions. There are 2,426 reports of professionals with VOCID-19. These figures for nursing staff and so-called essential trades workers are likely to explode in the coming weeks. Is there a systematic census? All patients infected with VOCID-19 can make a statement to the occupational physician. Is the process known to all workers in the country, and initiated for all? Independents including doctors, kines, generalists and others are not eligible for compensation from Fedris. They cannot therefore be compensated. Is a solution being developed? Among the sectors most affected, we find hospitals. Have any measures been taken in consultation with the federated entities to support them, as well as nursing homes and homes for the disabled? I now turn to the questions relating to the reimbursement of the additional costs and additional costs of VOCID-19 for dentists and orthodontists. Minister, the five professional associations recognized by INAMI have recently called on you. You have forbidden – and that's very good – to make patients bear the costs. INAMI is committed to taking care of them. However, we must ask ourselves what the amount is and what the system this body will develop in this direction. When will it be effective? Will it have retroactive effect? Will dental practitioners who have invested in protective equipment and who lose many clients due to the longer duration of each treatment be relieved and supported? Who will control the mandatory sanitary conditions? Without control, is it not likely that some practitioners will neglect measures essential to their protection and that of their patients? In addition, it is necessary to allow visits to long-term patients who are hospitalized. Starting today, this possibility is left to the discretion of hospitals. What about these sick people? Will short-term exit periods be allowed again? Will each hospital have its own visiting plan or will it receive any guidance to follow? In the event that the risk to the health of the sick prevents them from receiving a visit, what steps could be taken to support the health-care staff in their tasks, which remain so challenging? Finally, Madam Minister, I will ask you a very local question. We need help with asparagus, strawberries, apples and pears in Limburg and Hesbaye. Green corridors allow the exceptional entry of foreign workers. Are clear health measures taken to ensure their protection and accommodation? Are they well informed about the steps to be taken? Similarly, are transparent arrangements made to protect producers and to verify the health of those entering our territory? The aim is of course to avoid a further spread of VOCID-19, even if our plantations need – and this is essential – interventions so that our horticulturalists can continue their activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u21	In general, I would like to add a few more questions. We were informed that there would be shortages for a vaccine in the autumn. Is that message true? Why are there deficits and how can these problems possibly still be solved? Mr De Backer, what is the current state of the medical protection equipment? Do all the essential professions now have sufficient protective equipment, not just mouth masks, but everything they need? Are the municipalities already distributed by the federal or the Flemish government? What's the status of testing? What are the current test criteria and conditions? How many tests are carried out a day? I also have a question concerning the vaccines and the medicines that people are looking for feverishly. Are medications and vaccines of natural origin included in the studies and clinical trials? Are there any universities or firms carrying out research in this area, or should we rely solely on chemical resources from the pharmaceutical industry? Does research into resources of natural origin also receive support from the government, and why or why not? One doctor is already more in favour of natural products than the other. However, I was told that the doctors seem to be working on the edge when they report on working by natural means and that they can even get a suspension from the Order. Is there a point where findings on natural products can be reported, whether anonymous or not? It is possible that useful means will be put forward. For example, a medicine against malaria also appears to be anti-virus or anti-virus. I also mention drugs against AIDS, HIV and herpes. I am thinking, for example, of bertram root and phytextonent. I'm not qualified in these things myself, it's coming to my attention. Do you also know about patients who have been treated with such natural products? What is the result of that? Are you prepared to include the branch of natural medicine in the search for means against COVID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u22	Question No 55006421C by Mrs Magali Dock was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u23	Madam Minister, I come with a very specific question about hospital visits and related centres, including rehabilitation centres. Visitation was banned for a long time for family members and friends. In many mental health centres, of course, visitors come for the benefit of the patients. How do you see this going on in the exit strategy? Will you take action to prevent the unification of patients in the hospital? Today there is a strong call for investigations and operations to be carried out. A lot of people look at that with fear, knowing that they have to spend two or three weeks in isolation without the support of family and friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u24	Mrs. Van Hoof is apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u25	Minister, Minister, today there have been 98 positive cases and 19 deaths. Belgium is currently carrying out approximately 9,000 tests per day. In an interview this weekend, Mr. De Backer, you said that it was far below our capabilities that are about 45,000 tests a day. Minister, what are we waiting for to expand this testing capacity and to carry out more tests because, in my view, this is the only way to eradicate coronavirus and achieve a maximum reduction in the number of positive tests. Mr. Emmanuel André said so too. I would also like to come back to an up-to-date situation. This morning, we learned that on 17 March 2020, the Higher Council of Health issued an opinion on the wearing of masks (Opinion No. 9577). On the one hand, he advised FFP2 masks for all medical procedures, as well as for patients suspected of having VOCID, and not only for aerosolizing acts. On the other hand, he advised the wearing of the fabric mask for the entire population, five weeks before the government. The question is very clear. Why didn't you follow this advice? We deserve explanations. As far as hospitals are concerned, has it been decided today to allocate additional resources to them? The EUR billion granted so far was an advance and not additional resources. What is the status of negotiations with staff? It is quite alarming to hear that the White Blouse Fund or the money earmarked for IFIC and upgrading, decided long before the VOCID crisis, would eventually be used. Can you give us an explanation? We are also alerted by the fact that pregnancy tests are among the top pharmacy sales. This is quite worrying because we can expect a large number of unwanted pregnancies. Have any measures already been taken? With regard to front-line psychological aids, the criteria for reimbursement for consultation under 18 years of age and over 65 years of age have been announced. But, in concrete terms, what is the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u26	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I refer to my questions. 55006282C and 55006374C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u27	Specialists warn of a second wave of COVID-19, possibly in the autumn. This fear exists in many European countries. Microbiologist Herman Goossens also links people's desire to travel with a possible second peak in the autumn. That is also the period when the common flu is usually in the country. At that time, patients will then register with the general practitioners with complaints where it will be difficult to determine whether these people simply have the flu or are infected with COVID-19. This means that it will be important that people consult their GP from the first symptoms, that the test results are known quickly and that the contact trackers can act quickly. I have four questions about this. Firstly, is it effectively expected that holidaymakers will cause a second peak in the COVID-19 epidemic? Secondly, will the suspicion of a link between holiday and a second peak in the autumn have an impact on the decisions taken by the National Security Council regarding the admission of holidays or the palette of holiday opportunities? Thirdly, is an action plan being prepared for the situation in which we are faced with other viruses besides the corona virus, such as the flu virus? Fourthly, we are at the top of available tests at European level, but the virologists would like to see the speed with which the test results are published to be increased. Then one can detect infected people much faster, which will certainly be very important in the autumn period. Are there any ways to speed up those tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u28	Mr President, Minister, Minister, there has been a lot of talk lately about the superspreaders, people with no symptoms who may infect a lot of people. This makes testing people without symptoms particularly important. Mr Emmanuel André van de GEES and Mr Herman Goossens of the UA stressed the importance of large-scale testing. However, we see that at the moment there is still no practical implementation. The built-up test capacity is still not widely deployed. Certain groups systematically retest, such as in the WSCs, or contact persons of infected people tests we do not yet see. What is the concrete state of play in this area? Secondly, apart from the blundering of the Sciensano database's bill, needed to conduct the contact investigation efficiently, Mrs Erika Vlieghe and Mr Emmanuel André van de GEES argued for a broad campaign to gain people's confidence. Will there indeed be a broad campaign? What's this gonna look like? Finally, I would also have liked to know the true facts about the never-published advice of the Supreme Health Council on the mouth masks. I would also like to refer to the written record of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I support you when you say that there is a buffer capacity for testing and that an outbreak in the WSCs requires constant testing. The regions are still not doing so today. Minister, are you aware of the reason why the regions do not test in the WSCs at every outbreak in these times? I'll give you an example from seven days ago, when it was again refused to retest at an outbreak in a WSC. Meanwhile, it became known that this has been happening more often lately. Is there any reason not to test every time? The capacity and the need are there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u30	Madam Minister, in view of the financial situation of hospitals as a result of the additional costs caused by the COVID-19 crisis and the decline in the activities of hospitals as a result of that crisis, I would refer to my written questions. 55006463C and 5506495C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u31	My third question concerns EU health sovereignty in the European Recovery Fund on the own production of personal protective equipment and the establishment of strategic stocks within Europe. Madam Minister, I assume that you can fully confirm your agreement with this EU health sovereignty? I'd like to hear that in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u32	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, I will begin by speaking on the effectiveness side of the scheme to avoid a rebound. What must be central today is tracing, testing and isolation. Clearly, however, this remains largely insufficient. So it's problematic and challenging. I would like to highlight three elements in relation to this. First, the absolute need to test much more, including asymptomatic people and especially those around an index box to be able to detect, including in case of falsely negative PCRs, as there are then risks of continuing to spread the disease. Secondly, the delay is still too long for the results of the PCR tests and especially those carried out at the level of the industrial platform. I say this from the beginning: operationally, in order to be more effective, one must be able to rely on the existing circuits, namely those of all the laboratories. Is it not now time to repatriate almost all PCR tests to laboratories, on the basis of existing operational circuits? Third, to be able to increase the days of tracing and making contacts compared to the index box. If the information that comes back to me is correct, it is currently two days, which is far too little since contamination could have occurred earlier. Concerning testing, on the serology side, the royal decree is still not published. Are you planning a retroactivity? Indeed, the guidelines have been published on the INAMI website for about 15 days. It would therefore not be correct not to have retroactivity for the nomenclature for laboratories and for the reimbursement of patients. The second part of the question relates to funding issues. I also spoke on Thursday in plenary – this was not the first time – about hospital funding. The one-billion circular provides for a recoverable advance. This is a major issue for hospitals. Indeed, if the state recovers the billion tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, hospitals would find themselves in catastrophic difficulties for patients, for caregivers and for the quality of care. What about it? There is a need to clarify, to ensure that this advance will not be recoverable but that it is an increase in hospital funding, and to increase this budget. As far as nomenclature is concerned, I would like clarification about home nurses and kines. Regarding patients undergoing post-COVID-19 revalidation, there was a meeting between the technical board of kinesitherapy and INAMI in late April, after which there was an agreement. However, the Royal Decree did not take over the nomenclature as it had been drawn up as a result of this agreement. What about it? Finally, in the case of quarantine certificates, a person who lives with someone who is part of a risk group must be able to be quarantined. Can the attending physician write the same type of quarantine certificate? What then is the professional situation and the intervention that fits with the quarantine certificate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u33	Resumption of schools is a topical issue, which is why I would like to ask you a further question. So, don't you think that the recommendations for wearing the mask in the secondary level need to be clarified, knowing that the resumption of courses is scheduled for June 8th? Many teachers regret that there is a lack of consistency in that adolescents over the age of 12 must now wear the mask in public transport, but not in school. Is consideration of this item on the agenda of the NSC to meet tomorrow? I would also like to take this opportunity to relay the legitimate incomprehension of virologist Emmanuel André, who spoke this weekend, and who wonders about the fact that a company can offer a screening test to its staff while doctors cannot offer this test to their patients, even though the tracking system has shown that they have been in direct contact with a person detected positive for VOCID. This is a very challenging situation, especially since the testing capacity at last exists, but it is largely under-used. We hope that there is no question here of a lack of decision on the reimbursement of tests, as Mr Emmanuel André fears. Minister, what is the reason for this inconsistency? Will the latter be promptly corrected? Can you tell us what is the status of the Royal Decree, which must confirm the procedures for carrying out and refunding the tests as well as the price ceiling of 9,60 euros announced? Finally, I would like to return to the situation in nursing homes. Within two weeks of the end of his missions to Belgian nursing homes, the NGO Médecins Sans Frontières is concerned that there are still many deaths. Given that one in two deaths in nursing homes is attributed to coronavirus, should special arrangements be made only to intensify collaboration between nursing and nursing homes and hospitals? Indeed, it seems that the nursing homes that were in contact with a hospital during the crisis were better able to preserve the lives of their residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u34	Who's gonna take the floor first? There are relatively fewer questions for Mr De Backer this time, and more for Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u35	Thank you for all your questions. I will try to treat them thematically and also to answer the additional questions as well as possible. You know that the central platform was established because, at the start of the task force, it was particularly difficult for clinical labs to develop enough reagents, erasers and therefore sufficient test capacity. At that time, the central platform was set up and we managed to get it started in the relatively short term. Today, we're still doing a lot of tests. More than 10,000 tests per day are performed on average. When we look at the statistics, we see that we have conducted about 72 tests per 1,000 inhabitants, also at the height of the crisis. Worldwide we score in the top 7. So we're still testing a lot. Our test criteria are still very broad. But also with the broad test criteria we still have overcapacity today. We have the opportunity to run some 32,000 tests today. The clinical labs and the federal platform are ready for this. The reason why we're not increasing this to 45,000 is that we're seeing too few samples coming in today. During the last week there has been a lot of discussion within the RMG to extend the test criteria again. This weekend, there's been a meeting to clear things up. An agreement has been reached on a new testing strategy. Not only the capacity of the clinical labs and the federal platform must be better exploited, but at the same time it can also be tested much wider. The intention is to allow people with symptoms to take a first test through the general practitioners and to quarantine for seven days. That's the situation today. Then it is intended to test all close contacts, including asymptomatic ones. If the first test is positive, the person concerned remains in quarantine. If the first test is negative, a new PCR test will be performed after a week. If this is also negative, the patient can leave the quarantine. Then the probability is very high that this person is not a carrier of the virus. A serological test will also be carried out at the second test time. In this way it can be checked whether the patient has antibodies. We now know that about 6% of the population today has the antibodies. In the context of contact tracing, it is effectively important that the results are readily available. In consultation with the general practitioners, we had already said a few weeks ago that we thought it best for the general practitioners to use a classic clinical lab, which is often very close to their practice. Then there would be quick results available. Approximately 97% of clinical labs deliver a test result within 24 hours. This was not the case at the start of the federal platform, as the federal platform focused on volume. In, for example, retirement homes, tests had to be carried out on a very large scale and very quickly. The federal platform has indeed had to adapt to this. Today the numbers approach the same order of magnitude. The federal platform will never be as efficient as the clinical lab that is nearby, because the samples need to be collected and centralised. That's exactly what it takes to make that volume. Statistics show that the federal platform approaches the turnaround time of a clinical lab, but with several hours more. The stories that four to six days has to wait for the results of a sample have largely disappeared in the last week. Of course, things can always go wrong. If a result is not delivered in time, it is very often due to an error in the entry of the steel or because something has been lost. The same problems also exist in clinical labs. Today the two run parallel. That is a good thing. I also agree with Mrs Fonck's analysis. The federal platform was, of course, conceived as a temporary device. The only thing we need to keep is the ability to screen. We have started discussions with clinical laboratories in order to consider ways to retain this capacity in Belgium and to use it in the event of a second wave. At the same time, it is necessary to allow clinical laboratories to recover the capacity implemented by the federal platform, but until then it is important to keep this platform in place in anticipation of a possible second wave. I would like to point out that this federal platform has carried out more than half a million tests at the height of the crisis. The test criteria have therefore been extended and we urge them to do so. Another aspect remains that of the collections and the mapping of new fireplaces. At last week's Inter-Ministerial Conference, we insisted very strongly on the establishment of clear protocols for residential homes, schools, large residential entities such as apartments and so on, but also for companies. If one identifies a positive case, what is the result? Then who's going to be tested? For rest homes, for example, it seems logical to me that the whole facility should be retested in order to be able to restart the cohort care as soon as possible. The same applies to schools: what will we do with them? In what way will we test a class, a number of students, a number of teachers? That needs to be made clear very quickly. The same applies to apartments and businesses. That discussion is taking place at the moment. This will be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference later this week. This afternoon, the RMG will talk about it. We have asked the RMG to make the listing, to achieve uniformity as to the presence of protocols and this for the whole country. Then the serological tests. You have already heard that in the story of the contact tracing we have added serological tests to get an overview of the immunity built up by the population. There is also the royal decree approved by the Council of Ministers last week, which will allow people to have a serological test with their general practitioner. If one falls under the definition, the test is also refunded. This will mainly concern care workers. On the other hand, this test can be requested and carried out by the general practitioner. However, this does not give any certainty about the protection that follows, because today the studies are too different as to how long immunity is to be carried. It is clear that even if we have antibodies, we still have to ensure that all possible measures are respected. The serological tests will thus be much wider in scope. It is important that this is followed by a report in order to be able to include that information again in the epidemiological studies. Another question was about the general practitioners, the federal platform, the triage centers and the clinical labs. With the GP consultation, we have chosen that they make the choice how they test people. Many doctors today opted for a classic clinical lab. I've requested the figures for that. Approximately 20% of the index cases are tested via the federal platform, all the rest are tested through the classic clinical labs. You can also see this in Sciensano's statistics: the number of clinical lab tests is increasing. At the federal platform this falls back in part, because there are fewer cases and so there is also less contact tracing. The organisation of contact tracing is a regional matter. You have all taken note of the position of the Council of State, which says very clearly that the central database, the application and everything related to contact tracing is a regional and Community competence, on which the federal level cannot even express its opinion. That was very clear, and so last weekend it was chosen to work out a cooperation agreement between the regions to regulate the legal basis for contact tracing. I believe that this is a good thing, and I have repeated it a number of times in this committee, as has now been confirmed by the Council of State: the cooperation agreement must provide a solid legal basis. At the same time, it has been agreed this weekend that a communication campaign will be launched to draw people's attention to the importance of contact research and their cooperation with it, and to make it clear to them that all the necessary safeguards relating to the protection of privacy are already in place today. In this way, we can encourage people to participate in the contact investigation. The extension of the test criteria will also make it easier for people to do so, because they will be able to be tested and soon know whether or not they have been infected with the virus. There was also a specific question about the materials. For reagents and swabs, clinical laboratories are engaged in testing, for which they are reimbursed. In this context, they provide their own equipment. That is the choice we have always made with regard to molecular tests. On the other hand, additional tests are carried out by the federal platform. Here, it is the federal government that provides swabs and protective equipment, which are distributed through sorting centres. It goes without saying that it is up to general practitioners to choose whether they wish to work with their own clinical laboratory or use the federal platform. We have always been very clear on this point, but we need to be logistically consistent with these choices. As far as swabs are concerned, we have bought them from many distributors around the world, but we have also sought to work with Belgian companies capable of producing them using 3D printers. The swabs in question were used after exemption and control by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS). On the other hand, Sciensano watches over the quality control of the whole process. There was a communication, about two weeks ago, to the clinical labs to make it clear to them that the central platform also meets all the quality requirements. Sciensano follows that. It is also under the guidance of Sciensano that there are discussions on the RIZIV, on the FAGG, on the FPS Public Health and on the Clinical Biology Committee on how we can maintain our capacity and also on how the clinical labs can monitor capacity in the future. It's important that that happens. Suppose there is a second wave, then we will need that capacity effectively. It is therefore important to maintain capacity in Belgium. The continuation of the strategy will, of course, be based on that. We need to develop clear rules on who can be tested on the basis of contact tracing and on how to deal with collectivities. There must also be a follow-up to the testing of care personnel, both with serological tests and PCR tests, as these people are always in contact with COVID patients. A number of hospitals have already started to systematically screen their staff. Of course, it is also necessary to consider how the tests can be used when the limits are reopened. As far as serological tests are concerned, quality checks have been carried out. The CE marking was not enough, as we have seen. We have seen that there are very large differences between the tests. Therefore, the FAGG has placed on its website a list of tests that have both a CE marking and a quality control. The serological tests shall be used not only for contact tracing but also at other times. Sciensano has listed a number of criteria for how serology can play a role, for example to have additional control in case of negative PCR tests in hospitals. The list of criteria can be found on the website of Sciensano. Reporting is also important. I have already said this in response to a question from Mrs Gijbels. A separate RIZIV code has been created to register the immunotests. In this way you can get an overview of the number of serological tests carried out via Sciensano. This will also be part of the test strategy for contact tracing in order to get a good picture. We have also used the support of consultants in building the federal platform. Mrs. Gijbels asked for that. We have called for the framework contract that Deloitte has with the federal government. I'm sure that's the way we can work through that window contract. As the platform's activities and everything that comes into being to set up logistics gradually decline, the support will of course be reduced accordingly. This also applies to all contracts with external support, including future contracts. Afterwards, we return to normality, where the various activities will be taken over by the administration, the agencies and the institutions. At that time, they need to consider whether they want to proceed with the externalisation of certain services by means of a public invitation to tender. I must say, however, that in recent weeks it has been very clear that our institutions, agencies and FPS are very much in a position to manage the dossier in a fantastic way. The employees have worked day and night and they've done a fantastic job. For some things external support was of course needed, to jump in at very busy and difficult moments or because certain expertise was not present at the services. This expertise had to be applied externally in the short term. I come to the questions relating to the PPE, with which I will have dealt with most of the questions on testing and protection materials. We're still ordering in, and right now, 380 million masks have been ordered by the federal government. Part of it is distributed on site today and in the next few days, because we want primary health care and hospitals to have sufficient stock to prepare for a possible second wave. Of course, we don't know when it will come. Part of that order will be used to build a strategic stock. The FPS will work on this in the coming weeks together with Minister De Block. At the same time, a national production capacity is being built up to produce tens or even hundreds of millions of surgical masks per year in Belgium. That too is an important element in the strategic exercise we are making. At the moment there are sufficient protective equipment, masks, gloves, aprons and others, available to catch a second wave of the virus. Hospitals and other institutions can partially complement their stocks and suppliers can buy again on the international markets and also deliver effectively again. The backlog created in the orders of hospitals, among others, is now systematically accessed by the suppliers. We've delivered about 10 million surgical masks to the home nursing sector and the health care professionals. There were deliveries on 23 March, 1 April, 18 April and 13 May and deliveries to those first-line care providers are still planned in the coming weeks, so that a buffer is available. Then I come to the questions about the medical devices and the oxygen. There has always been enough oxygen in the hospitals, as well as in the rest homes. The supply of oxygen was temporarily problematic, because there was some sort of hamster behavior. We have been able to solve this together with the sector. The regions asked if we could do something about it, and we have done so. We have made a purchase on the international markets, facilitated by us but carried out by the suppliers themselves, in order to remedy the existing problem. The situation in this area is also still monitored by the FAGG. There is good cooperation with the regional authorities to see how we can continue to monitor this problem. At the moment, the FAGG sees no problem. Then I'd like to talk about the specific question about the face shields. I'm not in charge of the National Security Council, Mrs. Van Camp. I do not know what your institutional schedule is like, but the National Security Council is still a body chaired by the Prime Minister and whose prime ministers are part of it. I was asked to supply materials to the medical sector. That's what we did. We have also provided the medical sector with a number of face shields. If you want, I can give you those numbers. The article you mentioned that raises the discussion about the face shields dates back to the end of April. We have discussed it with a number of experts. They say that little research has happened and that it is not always clear whether a face shield is better than a mouth mask. It is certainly not necessarily worse than a mouth mask, quite the contrary. For example, for a class teacher, a face shield might be appropriate. However, I do not need to remind you that education is a regional competence. In any case, the same rules should apply to the use of a face shield as to the use of a mouth mask. So one has to clean it properly, not with alcohol but in another way, because alcohol can damage the plexiglass. Such a face shield is of course also harder to make than a simple textile mask. That is the answer to your question as to why the massive purchase of face shields has not taken place and mouth masks have been chosen. There were also questions about the data against corona and the tracing. I have already mentioned several times – like the Council of State – that this is a matter for the Regions. Nevertheless, we have always been very supportive and a cooperation agreement is under construction to consolidate the legal framework. We have always helped to set up a functional tracking system to counter the spread of the virus. The opinion of the Data Protection Authority must, of course, also be reviewed. This will also have to be taken into account in the cooperation agreement. The aim is to make the cooperation agreement as soon as possible and then have it approved in the regional parliaments. I have already referred to the fact that this will be accompanied by a communication campaign to call on the public to fully support contact research. There is another discussion in the inter-federal committee on the distinction between essential and non-essential sectors and how to deal with them. That choice has not yet been made, but there are a number of leads. If one goes to the contact examination of all contacts, also asymptomatic, then of course many more people will be tested. It is also important that after a second test they will be able to move freely much faster as a result of a much shorter quarantine. For persons exercising an essential profession, such as caregivers, it may be exceptionally permitted, if necessary to ensure continuity of service, to use adequate protective equipment, to comply with strict measures at work and to maintain distance. In this case, for example, one should not travel. So some things can already be looked at today, but are now being looked at more closely by the inter-federal committee, also in the context of the new testing strategy and the new quarantine strategy. With this I have gone over everything, but I will go into a few oral questions. I have pointed out that the freedom of clinical labs for general practitioners has always existed, but one has to make a choice and keep it for a while, because we cannot change the system every day. The deliveries of erasers are of course linked to them, as I have just described. Since the tests are reimbursed by the clinical labs by the RIZIV, they are a package... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u36	Minister De Backer, we couldn't hear you for a moment because of a technical problem, so could you repeat your last sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u37	Emergency deliveries to hospitals have always been possible. We have also done some in the recent past. It is indeed intended that the clinical labs will take over the capacity again. During the crisis there was also work with overflow labs; that is to say, agreements were made between labs. If too many samples came in and a lab couldn't handle that amount, those samples could be passed on to other labs. It's happened a few times. The federal platform has also functioned several times as overflow labs for certain clinical labs that could not handle the number of samples. That worked well. In the future it will also be necessary to classify capacity and make regional agreements in networks on capacity, reagents, erasers and samples. Many parliamentarians referred to Mr Emmanuel André. I agree with his analysis that much more testing skills should be used. This is what we do with the new strategy. On the other hand, Mr. André participated in the task force testing as well as the GEES. He is now coordinator of the inter-federal test and trace platform. There are several places where this strategy needs to be implemented. Of course, he enjoys our full support in his efforts. Finally, I'll say a final word about serology and PCRs. Serological tests can be performed by doctors and companies can also ask for them for their employees. Even if antibodies have been developed, you should always be careful! On the other hand, it makes sense to me that PCR tests are part of the strategy put in place for communities, contact tracing and health personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u38	Mrs De Backer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u39	Mr President, until further notice, I am still Mrs De Block. It would be embarrassing for me and Philippe if I were Mrs. De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u40	Mr President, we have worked together a great deal, but there are limits to everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u41	I apologize for the distraction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u42	Mr President, we both have our regular partners. [[Hilarity in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u43	Mr President, we are one bubble.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Firstly, there are a number of questions raised by Mrs Depoorter concerning COOVID-19 and professional secrecy. There's a link to the teleconsultation, which I'll forward. It makes good recommendations for good practice by the scientific professional association for general practitioners. The Order of Doctors also issued an opinion on the issue of medical consultations by telephone. This was recently updated on 11 May 2020 on a number of aspects that called for attention. As regards professional secrecy, it is recommended that data should be transmitted with caution in the event of a COOVID-19 contamination. As part of the development of the domain of eHealth, we have developed a number of specific websites that offer mobile applications. Such applications must comply with the basic conditions of security, reliability and protection of privacy, CE marking and be adapted to the specific context of healthcare. You will find applications for audio and video communication. The role of doctors in contact tracing has long been governed by a legal framework for mandatory reporting of infectious diseases in the context of the importance of prevention in public health. In addition, on 4 May 2020, in the context of this specific epidemic, the Royal Decree No. 18 published the creation of a database at Sciensano in the context of the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus. In this respect, the work is in progress in the Chamber, because the royal decree was only limited in validity. On 17 May 2020, the Bureau of the National Council of the Order of Doctors issued an opinion on this matter and stated that it is appropriate that the doctor cooperates, both on the mandatory notification of patients and on the follow-up to the doctor himself who is infected with COVID-19. Of course, all these collected data are treated in a strictly confidential and secure manner. As Mr De Backer pointed out, opinions were sought from the Data Protection Authority and approval was obtained from the Information Security Committee. Various technical and organisational measures regarding security and privacy were also taken. There is also an encryption via the tools to collect the data through the care actors. They are therefore not readable by unregistered authorities. Mrs Gijbels, you had a question about the cost of personal protective equipment. On Monday 25 May, the Insurance Committee approved the start-up and composition of a working group on the costs to be taken into account, as announced in the letter of 14 May from the three health administrations to the health care providers and their professional organisations. The first meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, 3 June. The dentist's representative in the Insurance Committee has also explained the situation in the sector and, of course, he has also been invited to the working group, as have representatives from other sectors. This issue has also been discussed several times in the specific consultation bodies with dentists. The information collected in this context will also be addressed in that working group. There is work there to achieve a balanced and feasible proposal. However, it will not be an easy matter because of the complexity of the matter. There was also a question about the funding of hospitals. Zorgnet-Icuro conducted a survey on the working conditions of the staff. Following the first advance of 1 billion for general hospitals, preparations are now under way for a further advance of 1 billion for general and psychiatric hospitals, with an immediate payment of 500 million. The second 500 million would be allocated if there were another increase in the number of COOVID-19 patients on intensive care, a so-called second wave. There can be played much shorter on the ball. Both are already in development and are already advanced. The final regulation is in full preparation, obviously in consultation with the sector. After an initial opinion from the National Council of Hospitals, we expect a second one. Many consultations have taken place between the medical-mutualist sector, the said Council, the administration of the SPF and INAMI. To this end, the National Council carried out the preparatory work on the basis of the SPF's "additional costs" survey. It is likely that this will be monitored with a view to identifying the additional costs from May onwards. In other words, it is important to continue the work safely. Many protective materials are used for strict hygiene measures. The Zorgnet-Icuro survey covers the first five weeks of the crisis and indeed points to a sharp decline in activity. However, we must wait for the April billing, which will take place at the end of May. There is always a delay because there is a need for supervision by insurance institutions. Only then will the payments follow. This also means that, during the crisis itself, liquidity was still in the hospitals for the activities of January and February. Nevertheless, there may be a problem, given the additional costs associated with changes in infrastructure and additional equipment. In the short term, at least EUR 1.5 billion would be needed to deal with the treasury problems in hospitals. I do not know where this story comes from with the structural funding of the Health Care Fund, which is provided through Parliament, and the IFIC, which forms part of the former social agreement. For me, there was never any mention of mixing them. You refer to different articles. I'd rather you ask me, because that story doesn't add up. Mr Prévot, you raised again the question of the conversion of jobseekers. The answer given in plenary session is still valid. Mrs Gijbels, you had a question about the survey. The survey is about March's revenue. Then there will be another one for April's revenue. So that survey's still going on. Mrs Van Camp, I have already given you an answer on the health bonus. A federal consultation took place where a consensus had been reached, but the syndicates did not consider this to be a good thing. This was also discussed in the first contact with the syndicates. They call for more structural measures. Social dialogue on this subject is again taking place today. So this was definitely not wiped off the table. There will also be consultations with the Länder. If the premium is paid federally, it is important that the people working in, for example, a residential care centre should also be eligible for it. You also had a question about the home nurses. There was good contact with the nurses through the Agreement Committee at the RIZIV. The nomenclature for home nurses has been adapted to their request. That has already been introduced. A system has also been developed through the triage centres, so that the tests there can be taken by the nurses, in the presence of a doctor. No question has been asked about the sampling of COOVID-19 tests by home nurses. So far, it's the doctors taking the tests. Then there was a question from Mr Rigot about the clinical trials. Mr Rigot, with regard to clinical trials, I have a very technical answer which I will send you. As far as the Solidarity study is concerned, we had two reasons why it should not be put into practice, because there were doubts as to the dose of hydroxychloroquine used in this trial before the Lancet was published. It was a really important dose. There were also legal problems in delegating the role of promoter of the study, between WHO in Belgium and Belgium, which ultimately could not be resolved. Some hospitals have regrouped recently and want to join the Discovery study, but it should be noted that in the Discovery study, the treatment arms will be adjusted according to the latest scientific publications. That is, one of the medicines is precisely hydroxychloroquine. We observe the evolution of this study because it is a very important argument for us. Funding for this INSERM study, which will be carried out in France, will be provided by the KCE as part of its KCE Trials programme. Mrs Merckx, you also asked a question about hydroxychloroquine. Sciensano has given me the following answer. "The guidelines for the treatment of hospitalized patients were reviewed and the new version published on the Sciensano website on 26 May. From now on, the use of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of VOCID-19 is no longer recommended, except in registered clinical trials, following a careful reassessment of the risks/benefits associated with the study, new trials to evaluate this medicine, and potential risks, with caution." That is where we remain very careful. Mrs Ingels, you asked a question about differentiation, but it is not clear to me whether your question is differentiated according to age or risk. I suggest that you say that again in the second round of questions, because I did not write down enough during your question. Mrs Depoorter, in relation to the aid measures, I have already said that the blouses blanches and the IFIC certainly remain separate. Many pharmaceutical companies and academic centres, including Belgium, are working on the development of a vaccine. Everyone hopes, of course, to have a vaccine first or as soon as possible. The next item is the state of play. We hope, of course, that it will become a Belgian vaccine in part or in part. There is an urgency, but proper testing is needed so that adequate data on effectiveness and safety can be made available. There is a lot of cooperation between pharmaceutical companies and the academic sector, which is good, because it can accelerate and generate synergies. Of course, safety must always be at the forefront. Belgium is in contact with the company Moderna in connection with the future stages of the development of a vaccine. It's about pre-consultations. It is too early to know exactly where the tests will take place. The company is currently only in the first phase of a clinical trial with 45 persons, which is only the first start of the clinical trial. The Phase 1 study is scheduled for July in the United States. As I know, the Supreme Court has issued several opinions, three of them to the RMG. The Supreme Court does not publish the opinions itself, because the opinions have been requested by the RMG. The Supreme Court shall operate independently and may publish any advice it wishes. I wouldn't know who or for what reason that's being stopped. For example, the Supreme Court has issued a public document, a consensus. Regarding the rational and correct use of oral masks during a pandemic period, this was concluded within the RMG after three sessions. It was about a consensus opinion from the FAGG, the FOD Public Health, la Région wallonne, Ost-Belgien, Flanders, Sciensano and the Hoge Gezondheidraad. Indeed, it contains the opinion dated 13 April 2020. It is a public document with all necessary references. It's really a misunderstanding that someone would have prevented you from publishing an opinion. The Supreme Court publishes itself. Probably didn't do that here because it was meant for the RMG. An initial preparation was made by the RAG. In the RMG are also the Länder. Therefore, it was important that it be a widely supported conclusion. That's what it's become. As far as the flu vaccine is concerned, an opinion came today from the Supreme Court. Mrs Depoostere, you will forgive me for taking the time to have this discussed by, among other things, the RMG. Then we'll come back to this. I don't think it's such a surprising advice either. The vulnerable groups are known. Now it's repeated. This is an opinion that has already been given in previous years, only now perhaps more explicitly. As you know, flu vaccine is always recommended for vulnerable groups. Mrs Sneppe, we do expect that there will be more demand than usual, but we have contacts with the three suppliers who delivered us the vaccines last year. We had also made agreements with them in advance to guarantee their delivery. In this respect, we expect there to be more demand, because people will see the importance of a vaccine more, while some people did not see the point of vaccination in the past. As far as your question about non-pharmacologic medication is concerned, as always there must be evidence of the effects of a medicine. If you want to use home, garden and kitchen products, or natural products, you can always do so if you feel comfortable with them. The question is whether this can replace a medicine with a proven effect. Or is this supplemental? I have no problem with it, but I would if one were to use it as a real medicine. For that there is no proven effect. Mrs Hinge, I will come back later to the WHO resolution of 19 May. Mrs Creemers, a technical matter: why were these demographic data not completely complete? This is a problem of reporting by the Health and Health Agency. A quarter is indeed missing, according to the figures of Health and Care. Sciensano now has good hope that they will change the way they report. They say that this will be resolved in the near future. Of course, it is difficult to build on incomplete data. Mrs. Rohonyi, I come to the transfer of blood plasma to treat coronavirus. Patients included in these studies are not exclusively so-called "critical" patients, i.e. requiring admission to intensive care, but with a certain degree of severity. The DAWN-plasma study, for example, includes patients hospitalized for VOCID-19 who experience complications following pneumonia or who require additional oxygen. All clinical trials are available on the KCE Trials website. Here you will also find the criteria for inclusion. What's next? It's too early to say. This will obviously depend on the results of the clinical studies, but also on the international results. Ms. Fonck, regarding physiotherapists, an informal remote meeting was held on April 22 to consult with physiotherapists on the possibility of new specific arrangements in this sector to deal with the crisis of VOCID-19. This meeting was, as I was told, a kind of brainstorming with some of the Council's physiotherapists; representatives of the insurance organizations were not involved. I would like to point out that various measures have already been put in place in this sector to ensure continuity of care. We have created the possibility of video-consultations or telephone consultations during confinement. We have also adjusted certain rules and time limits for health care insurance to ensure reimbursement of benefits issued by physiotherapists. These adaptations were developed in collaboration with representatives of physiotherapists and insurers. These new measures received a positive opinion from the Insurance Committee on Monday 26 May and their budgetary compatibility is being analysed. Furthermore, it was decided that the Technical Council for Kinesitherapy would also be involved in the development of structural measures for patients with post-intensive care syndrome. In the case of physiotherapy in an intermediate care structure, a specific benefit is introduced temporarily. This benefit is reimbursed by compulsory insurance via the mutuality of the patient. In this case, no personal contribution or supplement is payable by the beneficiary, i.e. the patient. The representatives of the physiotherapists also pointed out that their colleagues working in outpatients and in private practice need much more protective equipment to treat their patients in the safest conditions. We are developing a system that would allow health care insurance to intervene in the costs of these measures and protective equipment, for both physiotherapists and care providers. Mrs Merckx had a question about the World Health Assembly. That was not an easy meeting, of course, given that it is one of the biggest health crises ever and that there is a great rivalry between the Member States of the World Health Organisation. However, there has been a consensus for a resolution that makes immunization against COVID-19 a global public good for health and makes universal access to an affordable vaccine a global priority. We see this as a compliment to the European Union as a initiator, because it has succeeded in playing an initiating role at the global level at this time when the United States is turning away from multilateral cooperation. However, there are still concerns for the WTO. There is the US's very tough attitude and there is the geopolitical battle between China and the US. We note that the assessment of the overall approach to COVID-19 has yet to begin. We expect a great deal of work to be done on this in the future. We also refer to the Belgian contribution of 27 million to the fight against COOVID-19. We also support the call in Resolution No. 73/1, addressed to international organisations and other stakeholders, to contribute to a voluntary patent pool. We also note that the results of the research carried out with Belgian funding by CEPI are always communicated transparently. Of the 27 million, 15 million were already allocated to CEPI for vaccine development, 5 million to the Red Cross and 5 million to the Central Emergency Respond Fund (CERF), coordinated by OCHA. Of the 12 million that have not yet been allocated, we are considering granting part of it to the WHO as additional funding. This is a classic financing of the overhead and it is not a question of cooperation with the private sector. But that is still the subject of discussion. Mrs Creemers, you had a question about the registration of victims' data. There are several channels for the deaths. In the hospital this runs through a survey where the hospitals report directly to Sciensano for the whole of Belgium. The information shall be collected at individual level, including data on the deceased's age and sex. For information on COVID-19 deaths in the residential care centres, there is another route, because here it goes through the Regions and the Communities, each of which has set up their own system. In Brussels and Wallonia there is an individual registration and in the Flemish Region they have opted to work with an e-stop shop, where only aggregated death data are passed on to Sciensano, without information about age and gender. There's the difference. We will now try to adapt it, otherwise we will not be able to build on it. I'll send you the further technical explanation. You also had a question about the data from specific hospitals. At present, each individual hospital is obliged to fill out different forms, after which everything becomes centralized with Sciensano and Home Affairs. The data are then processed by the competent administrations. As for your question about the Pelt hospital, we never provide data from individual hospitals during the press conferences. It's up to the hospitals themselves to communicate about that. We have chosen from the beginning for one daily report, because the information came from all sides differently. The hospital therefore chooses to communicate or not to communicate. I can't tell you why Pelt's hospital isn't part of that, which will be your choice. Moreover, the administration does not encourage individual numbers per hospital, as this can lead to undesirable effects for chronically ill patients, who may then be afraid to go to the hospital concerned. Furthermore, neighbouring hospitals may become overloaded due to less rational behaviour. This may then also jeopardise the proper functioning of the applied distribution plan, for which we are afraid. Then I come to the questions about the guidelines for general practitioners. These were developed by Sciensano, Domus Medica and the Collège de Médecine Générale francophone de Belgique. A mandatory electronic notification of contacts was provided to break contamination in the chain. It is the general practitioners, of course, who are involved here; the first line is indeed very important here. The Directives have already been published, with detailed criteria on what close contacts and low-risk contacts mean. For close contacts that should remain in home isolation and have no symptoms, which are therefore not sick, there is a quarantine attestation. There is also the possibility of a teleconsultation. Mrs Creemers, I gave you a very detailed answer on 28 April. I've got it right here with me. I memorized the date well, since that was my birthday. I'll send it to you again. It is, of course, also in the report. All measures shall take into account the evolution of the epidemic and the feedback from the field of action. Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to your question on the use of sniffing dogs, I had already sent a fairly long answer. The question comes back today but I will send you my answer because it is very technical. As far as chronic, elective and psychological care is concerned, the measures taken in hospitals and the recommendations of the National Security Council are concerned. It is only about children under the age of 12 with both parents and very close relatives of people who are on critical services or on palliative care. For psychiatric hospitals and rehabilitation hospitals, visits resumed on 11 May. The FPS Public Health has sat together on this and as of today visits to hospitalized patients are also allowed. A letter was sent to hospitals by the FOD, but they can decide how they will apply it, because they sometimes have to make adjustments. Hospitals can therefore draw up their own rules to ensure safety. Each hospital may have its own problems, but they will ensure that, of course to a limited extent, visits are allowed. I've read that peace and quiet benefits newly given birth to women, but that won't be the case for every patient. One must always consider what the patient can do in terms of visitation, always respecting the safety rules. Mr Rigot, to answer your question about increased hospitalizations in psychiatry, it is true that the number of referrals (MOEs) has increased for several reasons. However, it would be premature to say that this situation is the result of the health crisis alone. It should also be borne in mind that psychiatric hospitals could no longer admit new patients during confinement. To do this, they had to have a VOCID service, which was not always possible. As a result, observation was a means of being hospitalized. In addition, most MOEs concerned people in very precarious situations who had already received psychiatric care. We also note that the MOE for people with mental disabilities is mentioned with some centres, the aim being that they take care of difficult cases. We asked for feedback from the sector. Contrary to what you say, cases of new, rather serious psychiatric pathologies related to VOCID-19 are not mentioned everywhere. It is still too early to draw any conclusions in this regard. According to the information given to me, it is mainly about anxiety and depressive disorders related to the health crisis. The federal and provincial governments provided equipment to psychiatric hospitals. They have also developed their own supply network. Psychiatric hospitals are not "out of all radars," as you say. In fact, in Wallonia psychiatric hospitals send daily a report to the AViQ which wants to know the suspect and proven cases, the patients tested, the hospitalizations, the deaths, etc. They are then centralized as part of the follow-up to the crisis. In Brussels, psychiatric hospitals regularly send state-of-the-art data to Sciensano. In Flanders, it is the Agentschap Zorg in Gezondheid who collects data. Nor does it appear, as you say, that MOE patients are systematically placed in isolation and locked up for 15 days. This seems already difficult to envisage for a person in psychiatric crisis. Here too, the feedback we have from psychiatric hospitals tells us that patients are tested upon arrival, as always in hospitals. Isolation is lifted from the test results. It doesn't last two weeks. It is a question of isolation measures of up to five days, which, in fact, remains exceptional and, in my view, should be avoided. With regard to solutions to facilitate psychiatric work, each medical authority in hospitals has autonomy and responsibility for the implementation of directives that are evolving according to the state of the situation. There are therefore variations from one institution to another, but it is clear that everything is being done in the various hospitals to ensure good quality and caring at this difficult time. In addition to in-house management, mental health care networks are active as part of the decoupling by making every effort to reactivate and further facilitate collaboration among partners. In passing, I must thank my collaborator who has had contacts with many hospitals to find out more. Mr. Rigot, you had a question about psychological care after confinement. The Interdepartmental Conference on 20 May stressed the importance of mental welfare measures at this time, and all ministers had already taken separate measures in that regard, such as additional budgets, staff, the establishment of temporary care services, a campaign for children related to domestic violence, awareness-raising initiatives and practical tools. I have already explained, in my previous replies, the measures taken specifically at the federal level. Over the past few weeks, the various jurisdictions have also jointly issued guidelines for all mental health care institutions. All Ministers committed themselves to continue to take targeted action and to inform each other. With respect to the composition or adaptation of the EEIG, I would refer you to our Prime Minister, who will look into the matter. As regards Mrs Sneppe's question about waiting times in child and youth psychiatry, that is the time between the time when a psychiatric problem is reported to a health care provider and the time when the first face-to-face contact takes place virtually or otherwise in the context of a treatment initiated. A survey will be organised in the future, primarily in the framework of the mobile teams working in the mental health networks for children and young people. As regards an analysis of the time between the first notification and the effective start, that decision must be taken by the Länder. This question is therefore best asked there. We concluded the first cooperation agreement on mental health care for children and young people in 2015 in the framework of an Inter-Ministerial Conference. I'll give you that answer for quite a while. Mrs Merckx, the extension of the ELP Convention to 18-year-olds and 65-plussers has now entered into force. We have received a favourable budget opinion on this. There was also a decision by the Insurance Committee. More than 604 clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics have already committed or convenitioned, and that figure is still rising. I hear sighs from the Flemish Association of Clinical Psychologists, but I am convinced that after the current convention, which runs until the end of 2022, we will receive scientifically substantiated answers to those important questions. We listen not only to the professional association for clinical psychologists, but also to the many others involved, such as the people who are currently working there, the clinical psychologists who have already been convenient, the other actors of the first line or the general practitioners and the patients. For us, it's important that everyone there is reporting. Enlargement came because we thought that this was the right time. With the limited budget I had, we had to limit ourselves through the existing network to the group of 18- to 65-year-olds. That has now been extended to minus 18-year-olds and 65-plussers. Children, young people and over 65 can now also contact the first-line psychologist. I think that's a good thing. Mrs Merckx, you also asked me about the increase in pregnancy testing purchases. As Mrs Rohonyi has asked me identical questions, I will also send you my answer. An evaluation report will be presented to the Insurance Committee and will then give rise to a discussion on the possible continuation of the prohibition of third-party payment for certain benefits. Mr Rigot, you have asked me a question about statements that suggest a possible defination. I'm not the one who talked about it, but the Minister of Interior De Crem. That's why I suggest you question him. Are the kids being taken into account? That was a question from Mrs Creemers. There's an opinion, a reference from the British Medical Journal. I'll forward that to you. It seems that there is no easy transfer by children and that there are no cases of children as superspreaders in scientific literature either. Again, it evolves day by day. As with marriages and funerals, these are matters without physical distance, but with a certain serenity. The risk is considered to be very low there. At a time when people want to have other meetings with the same number of people, such as a reception, that can change and present a great risk. Is there gonna be a second spike or not? That is a difficult question, Mrs Merckx. The virus isn't gone, I always say. It's still circulating. We know that only a very small number of people still have antibodies and that there is no vaccine yet. The virologists say that the chance of a rekindle is very possible. It is therefore very important to intervene immediately on new fireplaces and to follow this very closely epidemiologically. It's done by Sciensano. This also applies to the number of new infections per municipality and the development of a second-line defense based on the existing expertise and capacity of the Lander's surveillance services. The hospitals have also been given clear instructions. Furthermore, it is up to the GEES to work on measures in case there is a second peak. Of course we are also working on this in the FPS Public Health. A concern is that there would be a second peak through tourism. The European Union has drawn up a series of recommendations over the last two weeks. They have made recommendations for the safe organisation of tourism during the summer holidays. They point out the need for social distancing and also the need for each country to have the necessary test capacity available. With the emergency plans and guidelines of the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, Belgian hospitals have passed the first wave of COVID-19 in a very powerful way. We are now in the tail of the first wave, but the virus is not gone yet. After all, there are still eight hundred COVID-19 patients in our hospitals. So the epidemic isn't over yet. The necessary guidelines have been given to hospitals and networks for the re-launch of the elective programmes in hospitals. During the transition period, they will preserve the separate streams of Covid-19 and non-COVID-19 patients. A minimum capacity of beds on the ICUs will be reserved, i.e. 25%. A rapid scalability of that capacity to 50 % within 48 hours should be possible and to plus 50 % within the week. The situation there continues to be monitored by the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, which receives a table three times a day, which is a good thing. We will be able to detect very quickly if there are more infections or more patients in hospitals. I repeat, however, that the first line is also crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u45	Madam Secretary, may I ask you to come to an end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u46	Mr President, I was just finishing up. There was another question from Mr De Caluwe about tourists. I'll get him that in writing. Another important question is why the occupational disease applies only to workers. Indeed, that is still a different statute. When I put forward my cappuccino proposal some time ago, which aims to ensure that our social protection does not in the long term depend on the statute, there was little desire to debate it. Perhaps we can have a debate on this now. A selfemployed person is considered to be self-insured, not only for occupational diseases but also for accidents at work. They therefore do not pay a contribution for occupational diseases. If you do not pay contributions to social security, you have no rights either. That always made sense. Now everyone seems to be forgetting these basic rules. I think we all now come to the conclusion that we need to grow our social protection systems with different types of contributions and different rights and obligations. I'd like to be an advocate for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u47	Mr President, my question was not answered. Can we still do this in the first round?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u48	Is this about your question about visiting arrangements in hospitals? That question was answered. The hospitals have to judge this for themselves. Letters were sent about this. With the last letter also went into a relaxation from June 2nd. The hospitals must see for themselves whether there is any additional danger. I think I have given a very long answer to this question, including part in French. So it's up to the hospital itself to organize this, in a safe way for the other people in the hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u49	We're listening to the replies first. Then there will be a short second round of replies from the ministers. You may then clarify your question, Mrs Farih. The N-VA Group will have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u50	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the organisation of the PCR testing, I'm left with a gruesome feeling. You say that the clinical labs did not have enough reagents and wipers, Minister. I hear what I hear, but I have heard from the suppliers, for example, that they had to deliver to the industrial testing platform and not deliver to the clinical labs. If the wipers are taken away by the Defense Department, then it is not difficult for them to run out of material and therefore not have sufficient capacity. You say that the wipers are included in the refund package, but it is not the cost of the wipers, it is the supply that was not there at the time. The federal government apparently could touch erasers, but chose to deliver them to the industrial platform instead of to the medical experts. You also said that it took only two and a half weeks to set up the national testing platform, but couldn't it have been much faster if the clinical labs were connected to a network? Why didn't Sciensano do that? You say the overflow went to other labs, but that didn't happen structurally. In the newspaper, Professor Cotton of the ULB pointed out that the FAGG had taken over the organization and exceeded his bounds. He speaks of "illegal laboratory medicine." How come the FAGG can organize something like that? Is what he's saying true? According to you, the GPs want to work with the clinical labs because it's faster and because they're closer. Is it because they are closer or because otherwise different steps are needed at different locations? Labeling, pipetteing, analysis and reporting are often done in three or four different places. We do not need this slowness now. At this stage of tracing, we need to call on the clinical labs as soon as possible, which can work fast enough. At a previous committee meeting, you said that the national testing platform would be more robust and that it would work better than the clinical labs. I hope you didn't just know too late that the national testing platform didn't provide the same service as the clinical labs at all. Furthermore, I did not receive an answer to my question on the composition of the RAG and RMG. It's the third time I've asked that question. Why isn't there a clear mention on the website? Can we consult the reports they make somewhere? Nor have I heard anything about Sciensano's quality laboratory service. How'd you put it together?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u51	You say that no questions have come about the home nursing tests. That is why we have asked for a nomenclature number to be provided for this purpose. I also refer to my previous questions on this. The tests are already being carried out in the home care situation. For example, self-employed nursing is also doing this in the institutions. It is not enough that this is only arranged through the triage centres. A nomenclature number shall be provided. It would be strange, however, if this were allowed in the triage centres under the supervision of the doctor, but not in home care or without compensation. I would ask you to do something about that. We are very pleased that the discussion on the bonus has been restarted. The trade unions are mostly at odds there. That is a pity, but it is to your credit that you continue the consultation, including with the Länder, so that the full healthcare sector can receive the bonus. It is also very good news that you are working on a second disk for the hospitals. It's a shame the face shields haven't been watched. You say that these are more difficult to produce. The production of the mouth masks and the filters is a very difficult matter. I have included that in my original question about it. Such a face shield is very easy to produce. It's not about a medical shield that completely protects. The copy I have shown is easy to produce. Maybe it could be raised again at the National Security Council whether it would not be interesting to provide face shields. I also notice that many people, such as shop staff who spend a whole day in the store, find it difficult or uncomfortable to put on such a mask. Then such a shield certainly offers a good alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u52	What strikes me in the complete discourse, especially after Mrs Gijbel's intervention, is the question of the federal lab and the clinical labs. We discussed the slowness of diagnostics in this committee on 3 March. Today it is two months later and we are not yet a step further. Something's going on here anyway. We need to work on that. Mr De Backer, you say that there has never been a shortage of oxygen in the hospitals. That's right. However, let us not open the discussion about residential care centres and the outpatients. There has been an effective lack of oxygen for patients. This needs to be addressed in the context of the preparation of the second wave. We can't let people run out of oxygen. That's what keeps them alive. Mrs. De Block, I've already asked you twice about the flu vaccinations. You say that this is normal and that every year we have possible shortages of flu vaccines, but this is the time to negotiate. Already the producers indicate...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u53	You put things in my mouth I didn't say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u54	Already the producers indicate that the demand in Belgium will be greater than the supply. I would ask you to draw up a plan so that the pharmacists and doctors, the first line, the flu season vaccination and the COVID-19 vaccination can map out and we can ensure that there are enough vaccines. It is up to you to do that, along with the Royal Academy of Medicine, Madam Secretary, who has given you repeated advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u55	Can you finish up, Mrs. Depoorter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u56	I am not talking about prevention, but about administering the vaccine and ensuring that there are enough vaccines. Get in touch with the pharmaceutical sector, make sure there's both a corona vaccination and a flu vaccination for our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u57	Minister, I am pleased that the protocol is being amended. That was exactly my question, namely to use overcapacity for the close contacts, so that the quarantine can possibly be reduced. I am also pleased that the serological tests will be used in this. Hopefully we will see that more than 6% of the population have acquired immunity and then we will be better able to examine whether this immunity is worth anything, because there are a long time ago questions about that too. Since you say that 80% of the tests are currently being analysed by the clinical labs, I am asking myself questions about the short-term future of the triage points. In my region this is still very active, but if only 20% goes by this route, they may gradually be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u58	The triage centers work through the labs. A large part of the triage centers work with their own clinical lab. I explained this whole procedure in committee a few weeks ago. The general practitioners and triage points work with a clinical lab or can use the federal platform. Most of them use a clinical lab today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u59	The triage point where I've been works with the federal platform and says it would take a long time. That's just my own experience. We have not been able to see the spread of the free mouth masks. I hope that this will be done very quickly and that we will still be able to resolve the problems. Minister De Block, as far as the superspreader events are concerned, I didn't really want to know how that went. The research you are referring to also states that the spread is very limited in the open air. Is it not possible to communicate more strongly that, if one does organize activities, one can do the best in the open, if possible? I may have missed it, but I think you didn't answer my question about the feedback to the dentists about their fees. Your explanation of why the records of the Pelt hospital are not in our important newspaper, I fully follow, for which I thank you. Mr Hennuy has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u60	Minister, Minister, thank you. First of all, I am pleased that WHO has adopted this resolution by consensus, which was adopted by the European Union. Of course, it is a pity that this agreement to improve global cooperation for access to VOCID treatment and vaccine has been somewhat overshadowed by this duel between China and the United States. This obviously did not give much response to this resolution, nor did it give us much concrete evidence as to how this is going to happen in practice. We hear a lot of communications about the race of the pharmaceutical companies, to whom the vaccine will first have. It is hoped that this will be Belgium, but what is expected above all here is concrete information on pooling and collaboration. I hope that these are not just good intentions. Furthermore, I would also be interested to know the terms of the agreement in this resolution and what is meant, in concrete terms, to access a fair and affordable vaccine and how (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u61	Looks like there's a technical problem. We can't hear Mrs. H annoyance anymore. If she reappears, I propose to give her time to finish her speech. In the meantime, I give the floor to the PS.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u62	Mr President, like other times, we are still in a state of uncertainty for some answers to our questions about serological tests. We're waiting for the royal decree to be published. We didn't say if there would be a retroactive effect. There is, of course, an urgent need to publish this order. On all sides a request for an extension of the screening capacity in the broad sense. The capacity exists and the possibility of testing is there. Let's expand the screening capacity rather than wait for a second wave. We will react to the second wave, but now we must try to avoid it first and foremost. That seems pretty obvious to me. Minister, you say that too few samples are coming and that is why there are few tests. Then let's take the question from the other end! Let's expand the testing strategy. You tell us this is happening. I look forward to hearing the results of the last few hours' cogitations. Minister, I now come to the funding of hospitals. It is clear that, in response to the health crisis, they have given up their normal role of consulting. However, we know that the MAHA analysis of 2018 already explained that one in three hospitals was in deficit. Therefore, you can imagine that today the situation of these institutions is extremely delicate. This was already the case before the crisis, which only worsened their difficult balance. This must therefore be clarified quickly. You have committed an advance of one billion euros and announced, if I understand correctly, 500 million more. In any case, despite the lack of clarity in the expression, that is what we have heard. Beyond the present crisis, we must support the sector in a more structural way. I hope that we can act quickly in committee to help the hospital sector financially.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u63	Mr President, I will not dwell on the few questions that I would have liked to have given a more precise answer. I imagine how difficult the exercise is, as the volume of questions is impressive, but sometimes it offers the advantage of not answering all questions. Unfortunately, there may be some frustration among Members. Minister, I fully understand that, for technical reasons, you have been unable to answer to me about the situation of dentists and orthodontists, who are awaiting very clear instructions on how to cover the additional costs of the measures to be taken in the fight against VOCID-19. I will come back to that at the next meeting. It is indeed urgent that patients, health professionals and INAMI get an answer – especially in the interest of our social security – so that they can provide care in good conditions. And then, as far as mental health is concerned, you have looked at the increase in psychiatric observation, about which you have provided us with a great deal of information. I must tell you that I also listened well to and heard the professionals and the families of the patients. While this phenomenon is not exclusively due to VOCID-19, several mental health emergencies result from it. The consequences affect all citizens: fear, anxiety about isolation and overpopulation, as well as return to work. We won't have to neglect them tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, at the hearings on mental health, we heard how much it was necessary to act now and to find the necessary means. Moreover, we must remain aware that this next crisis, probably indirectly linked to that of VOCID-19, must be well measured. To do this, it is important to fund mental health care. My Socialist colleagues and I will return next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u64	Thank you, Mr. Rigot. Mr. Prévot, you've got a minute and thirty left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u65	Mr President, I do not think Mr Prévot will speak. He is disappointed by the response to hydroxychloroquine. He does not wish to intervene further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u66	Mrs. H annoyance, the connection has been interrupted. I'll give you two minutes to clarify your line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u67	Mr President, this was about the last part. At one point, I was ejected from Zoom. I do not know how far my speech was heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u68	I can't tell you either, because I don't know the length of your speech. Do your surgery. If there's a rehearsal, it's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u69	Thank you. As far as WHO is concerned, I was pleased to see that Belgium and the 194 signatories had adopted this resolution by consensus, which was increasingly adopted by the European Union. It is of course a pity that this agreement has been a little overshadowed by this duel between the United States and China. What we are really interested in is the concrete way in which we are going to find a vaccine that is accessible, and that this is not good intentions. For the moment, what we hear a lot is communications about pharmaceutical companies, which will have the vaccine first – we hope it will be Belgium. That's not what matters. The important thing is to pool and collaborate to make this vaccine as accessible as possible in the world and in terms of prices. I would also be very interested in knowing the precise points, the terms of this resolution, and what is meant by "access to a fair and affordable vaccine" and precisely how, in practice, the European Union and Belgium, which is a signatory, intend to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u70	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that you are not in favour of natural resources. However, many of what you call home-garden-and-kitchen products can effectively help people. Moreover, these products are often cheaper than pharmaceutical products. In addition, quality control and clinical studies are also used in the field of natural medicine. It is incomprehensible to me why this is no longer the case. I did not get an answer to the question where the doctors who use natural products can shed their findings and results without risking being thrown out of the Order. In the end, it's no matter how people's lives are saved, as long as they're saved. I would like to have an answer to that. In connection with the waiting times in children's and youth psychiatry, we have asked your Flemish colleague Beke. His answer was literally: "For the child and youth psychiatric services of general and psychiatric hospitals, the Flemish government does not have figures on the number of minors waiting for help." If your Flemish colleague does not have figures or you do not have them, then there is something very wrong. If there are no figures, then you cannot know whether there are waiting lists, how long those waiting lists are and how dramatic they are. I ask this question in response to the testimony of a mother of a 12-year-old child, who is near despair. Her daughter has a series of mental illness, but she has nowhere to go. If measurement is known, it is also interesting to have figures in this sector. The testimony shows that it's very urgent. With regard to my question about the medicine Sarcaneos, I did not receive an answer to the question whether clinical tests will also be carried out in Belgium, or only in America, and whether Belgium is in the first row in negotiations and relations with the company Moderna. I have not received an answer at all to my question about mink farms and communicable viruses. Perhaps these questions could still be addressed in a second round of answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u71	Madam Minister, I have looked it up for a while, but I suspect that if I am not correct, you have been talking mainly about psychosocial rehabilitation, addiction centres and psychiatric rehabilitation facilities. My question was more specifically about facilities dealing with physical rehabilitation, where I am thinking of centres connected to hospitals for example because of strokes and strokes. According to my information, those facilities still do not allow visitors. Do they belong to the group you have just spoken about, or is that a separate group?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u72	Mr de Caluwe has had to leave our meeting. First, I give the floor to Mrs Merckx. After that, the sp.a. will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u73	As for your answer on the disclosure in this morning's newspaper De Morgen, the advice of the High Health Council cannot just be swept under the table. 2 426 persons in the care sector who have become infected with COVID-19 have applied for recognition as an occupational disease. I read that on 17 March 2020 it was already recommended to use FFP2 masks more often. It is true that during the course of the epidemic we are beginning to do the same. General practitioners and staff in the residential care centers have usually purchased the masks themselves. We certainly need to go into this in more detail and possibly set up a committee of inquiry on it. Besides, you can't just get away with this, Mrs. De Block and Mr. De Backer. Mr André asked for the test capacity to be increased. You say you're both asking this, but it's up to the experts to apply it. But you're the ministers, aren't you? Who really decides here in this country? The increase in test capacity is very urgent. For me, it's a waste. We're able to run 40,000 tests every day, but we don't even get 10,000 tests a day. Then I think about how many cases we could discover, and how much faster we could act, also to take back normal life. It's just this way we can beat the virus. Are you talking about enlargement? I think you're really taking your time. People are always talking about two weeks. Then perhaps we can expect enlargement next week. That is, of course, all too slow. We have about 200 infections a day today. If we also tested all the contacts, we'd only get 500 to 1,000 tests a day. Then we'll still be well below the 40,000 we can get. So we need to trace much wider, but also screen much wider in residential care centres, in schools, in companies and everywhere people meet. As far as the WHO is concerned, I understand that we have effectively given 15 million CEPI. For us, it is important that we also link conditions regarding the availability of a medicine to the help that Belgium gives. We also know that the industry has a lot to do with this. As far as hospitals are concerned, we talked about $1.5 billion, but they are only advances. We still have nothing concrete, even if we know that the money of the white coats will not be used for that. The information remains too vague about the money that will actually be allocated to hospitals, who need concrete to be reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u74	Mr Minister, I note that we still have to wait a bit before we are sure that we will always retest in the residential care centres and that asymptomatic patients will also be tested. Madam Secretary, you said the High Health Council is independent of his publications. The High Health Council has already published extensively, and I believe that it is very often a matter of very useful advice. I still find it strange that that advice was not published by the Supreme Health Council. It is not so strange that we are asking why, because there was indeed an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u75	Madam Minister, first of all, I have heard that you share our concern about the financial situation of hospitals. If you wish to make funds available, you will have an ally to the sp.a. We must ensure that our hospitals also remain financially viable after all the heroics they have committed. Secondly, I was reasonably surprised at your very clear statement that the Health Care Staff Fund serves for more hands on the bed and for nothing else. I'm grateful for that. A legislative proposal has been tabled by almost all parties in this area. Let it be clear: the Health Care Staff Fund serves for more hands on the bed, not for premiums. Period. I am glad that you have confirmed that, so that there can be no misunderstanding. Thirdly, you will also find an ally in us to use that European money from the Health for Europe programme of 9.4 billion in a sustainable and sound way for strong health care. The sp.a-group will always support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u76	Minister, you could not give me an answer to my question as to whether there is a reason not to retest in the event of a new outbreak in a residential care centre. That answer is, of course, no. I fully support your view: since the capacity is available, it does not even need to be considered to retest immediately in the event of a new outbreak. I understand, however, that this is still the subject of discussion today. So I don't understand what's happening in this country. Isn't that obvious to everyone? I will certainly continue to support you in your vision. If there's an outbreak in a residential care center, it's unlikely there'd still be hesitation to retest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u77	As far as testing, tracing and isolation are concerned, we have been hearing the same story for weeks, and the situation is not making any real progress. Indeed, for several weeks we have needed a large-scale testing strategy, especially for asymptomatic people, in order to prevent them from passing between the meshes of the net. I hear today that serologies will be integrated into the tracking strategy. However, the Royal Order is still not published, and the Minister has not answered my question as to whether or not the Order will have retroactive effect. Finally, the provisions as published on the INAMI website do not include the part of the integrated testing when the PCR test is negative in the context of tracing. The measures are therefore too slow and ineffective. We see therefore that the arrangements you have made are limited and that manual tracing is insufficient. This is all the more worrying given that we are on the eve of the opening of borders and the holiday season, which will lead to a much greater brewing of citizens. Interoperability is fundamental to avoid an epidemic rebound this fall. We must therefore move forward and evolve manual tracing by supplementing it with a digital tracing, with a legal framework that will need to be reviewed. The Sciensano database, for example, needs to be reviewed, in particular with regard to the rapid destruction of personal data and the exclusive use of anonymous data in studies. Minister, I can only repeat to you, once again, that we must not talk to hospitals about the recoverability of advances. Today, hospitals have only resumed their usual activities at about 50%, and you are forcing them – rightly – to keep unoccupied beds in order to remedy a possible epidemic rebound. This is therefore a funding problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u78	Mrs Fonck, I have to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u79	I will conclude by recalling that I did not have an answer to my question about people living with other people in a risk group. Is the quarantine certificate applicable in this case? I know that this point is on the line between health and social affairs, but I think it is more health-related as it is part of the strategy of containment, the breakdown of transmission chains and the protection of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u80	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. First of all, with regard to under-used testing capacity, I understand that this problem is due to the fact that too few samples reach the laboratories. That point is known. For many weeks now, we have been returning to this problem. I would like to know what is actually being done to regulate it at the level of mobile teams, the equipment available to general practitioners, and the extension of testing criteria. Secondly, I did not get any answer about the resumption of schools, which is a matter of great concern to our fellow citizens. I do not know whether this is an oversight or the consequence of the bug we have experienced in the services of the House. Still, I find that many parents remain reluctant to put their children in school. The instructions given to schools change from week to week. These instructions are left to the discretion of each school director. This is really not a way of reassuring parents or putting children on an equal footing. Will the National Security Council of tomorrow be able to give clear signals to schools? As for the decontamination of medical equipment, neither did I get an answer. I regret this because it is a health, budgetary and environmental issue. During my recent visit to a nursing home, I was really aware of the problem of waste and contaminated material that could not be decontaminated and that remained there for weeks. They were blouses, gloves, masks. The track of the decontamination machines must be seriously studied, especially since these machines can be profitable very quickly. As far as the reconfinition plan is concerned, there is no answer either. We can be optimistic about the latest figures and the curve of the epidemic in our country, but we must be careful and that is why a plan for re-establishing the epidemic has been sent to hospitals. Other actors must also be mobilized and informed of this plan; I am thinking of physiotherapists, nursing homes and home nurses. Finally, I shall conclude, Mr President, with the situation in the rest homes. Mr. De Backer, in your opinion, there would be enough oxygen in the rest homes. Are you sure? Concerns were raised by Médecins Sans Frontières. The number of cases still remains too high in nursing homes. Do you confirm that rest homes are all able to bring the oxygen they need to breathe to patients with coronavirus today? I am thinking of the equipment, the bonbons and everything that concerns the supervision of the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u81	I give the floor to the Ministers for a second round of replies. Each minister has ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u82	Mr President, I am often criticized for speaking too fast. Mrs Gijbels, I would like to correct a number of things. What you're saying just doesn't add up. It's never been said that companies weren't allowed to deliver to clinical labs. They just had a huge backlog of orders that didn't come in and the suppliers said they couldn't deliver in the first few weeks. That's why the federal platform was created. There have never been any materials taken from or picked up from anyone, that is absolutely wrong. Here's what happened. To launch the central platform, several labs were spoken to, which were closed at that time. We asked if we could use their machines for the central platform. Therefore, the reasoning has been made that the federal platform is temporary. I gave that very clearly to the committee from day one. So what you said is not correct. It has never been said that there should be no delivery or that the clinical labs would be excluded. On the contrary, they are an integral part of the solution to preserve the test capacity. Mrs Merckx, I shall now turn to your comment. You must begin to distinguish between, on the one hand, the available test capacity, that is, the number of tests we can carry out today, and, on the other hand, the use of those tests. The test capacity is there, I have explained this on several occasions, and you can also see this in the figures of Sciensano. On some days there have been 25,000 to 30,000 tests. So the capacity is there. I have been calling on the various committees to give advice and decide on it for a number of weeks to extend the test criteria. We do, too. Last weekend there was another discussion about this. We will also be able to effectively test asymptomatic patients soon. I think that is a good thing. A question has been asked for the regions to list how they deal with the testing strategy in schools, in retirement homes, in large collective homes as apartments and in business. Again, this must be discussed in the RMG and belongs to the competences of the RMG. I can say a number of things about Mr Cotton, but I will keep it polite. I think a number of things were said there which are pertinently incorrect. There has just been a communication from Sciensano why the federal lab was set up and what quality standards and quality guarantees it has had to go through to get started. This has also been done effectively, under the control of the reference lab, the FAGG and Sciensano. Those three authorities have been on the road together to do so. All quality checks were completed before the federal platform was launched. Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Depoorter, that was not on 3 March but at the beginning of April. So, if you knew on March 3rd that there was a delay in tests carried out by the federal platform, you were a month early. Of course, the federal platform was set up to test in bulk. We need to get a reorientation to more fine-meshed tests right now. Indeed, today 80% of the triage posts and general practitioners work through their own clinical lab and because of the proximity one can proceed very quickly. That speed cannot reach the federal platform by centralising all kinds of assignments and pipeting at one location. Bringing the samples together takes time. As a result, there will always be a delay in that system. Therefore, it is important to underline that it is a temporary federal testing platform. The capacity, which I don't want to disappear in the country, must be absorbed by additional investments by the clinical labs. Those conversations are going on right now. I hope we can complete the operation by the end of the summer. We cannot just buy test machines and test capacity from bol.com. It requires some preparation and planning to bring it to a successful conclusion. There were also questions about oxygen. This is a regional competence. This problem was reported to the RMG in mid-April. We have increased the circulation capacity and bought cans and equipment on the international market. We must remain extremely vigilant in the case of a second wave and discussions are under way with the Regions on how to manage this. You're right when you say that a shortage of oxygen would be unacceptable. Then there was the question about the number of tests. I invite you to look at what is happening in other countries. We have a very large test capacity. As I have said for several weeks now, we need to make better use of this capacity. We are gradually succeeding in convincing everyone that this way of doing things is common sense. But we need to know that we are already doing more than 10,000 tests a day to detect between 200 and 300 cases, which is not much. I agree that we need to broaden the criteria and test asymptomatic people. There is a need to test more quickly in communities. But if we look at all the countries of the world, if we consider the number of per capita tests carried out per day, we are in the leading platoon. Certain figures should therefore also be taken into account. We sometimes have the impression that we do not carry out tests in Belgium, whereas this is exactly the opposite. That's how I get to serology. Serological tests can be used in some very specific cases. The indications are clearly indicated on the Sciensano website. In terms of diagnosis, this type of test remains irrelevant. If we have decided to include serological testing in the testing and contact tracing strategy in the second test, it is mainly for epidemiological purposes and to carry out studies and not for diagnostic purposes. Finally, I have an answer to Mrs Jiroflée's very specific question concerning the testing strategy at the rest homes. At the moment, the coordination doctor will decide what needs to be done after consultation with the Agency. I think there's a way out of that. Once one or two infections are identified, the whole device can be tested to reset cohort care to a very short period of time. This seems to me to be the way to get local outbreaks under control, not only in rest homes but also elsewhere. That's what I think I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u83	First of all, Mrs Depoorter, I do not think you can put words in my mouth. You're saying I wouldn't have done anything yet. I've been in consultation with the companies that supply us with flu vaccines for weeks. We have already made an assessment of how many more flu vaccines we will need. There are contacts with the firms to secure them. I've already used that word. Probably because you want to shoot a video, in your answer you pretend nothing happened. I really want to note in the report that of all the things you claim that I would have said, nothing is true. Mrs Creemers, in connection with the suggestion on outdoor activities, it is known that after 15 minutes of contact, the virus spreads inside more than in the open air. The GEES has already taken this into account in its recommendations. Hence sports were first allowed outside, not inside. Contact sports were not allowed either. The GEES takes that into account and continues to do so. The same goes for the schools. Last week it was decided that children outside can come out of the bubble of their classroom and play with each other, but that the distance with the teachers should be kept and that teachers should also wear mouth masks. This has also been taken into account several times in the communication, which takes place at 11 a.m., including by Mr Van Laethem and Mr Van Gucht. There, too, the importance of outdoor activities was stressed. This was also taken into account, inter alia, in the arrangements for hairdressers. There was a question about the orthodontists, who reached us Friday night at 3.30 p.m. Since this is a special consultation, I have asked for an opinion on it. I haven't gotten that yet. On a Friday for a long weekend at 3.30 pm, understanding all the problems in the Chamber, but that is an unfeasible card given the cascade of necessary input. I still have to ask all the administrations and advisors for their input and that's more. It's not that easy. Mrs H annoyance, as far as the WHO is concerned, we are going to adopt a solidarity approach. It is a vaccine for the world's population, which is still special. At the various meetings with WHO, I asked for consideration to be given to a target group approach, for example, depending on mortality or co-morbidity. There will have to be some solidarity as this vaccine will be needed in all countries of the world. Mrs Sneppe, with regard to the study on Sarcaneos, I have a detailed reply of three pages which I will give you in writing because it is very technical. As far as mink is concerned, I had to ask my colleague, Mr Ducarme, who is partly responsible for this. In Belgium, there is currently no indication that there would be any contamination of animals on humans. The Risk Assessment Group-COVID Animals was established after the first infection was diagnosed in a cat. This group has examined the safety of staff in mink farms and closely follows the situation. There is also intensive contact with the Dutch government. The BFSA, under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, also maintains contact with veterinarians and mink breeders who are still active in our country. The BFSA has sent a letter to these people and a passive surveillance has been installed through contact with veterinarians and mink keepers. The Steering Committee of the Risk Assessment Group for Animals decided on 26 May to engage in active surveillance in consultation with the stakeholders. A plan is now being worked out for this. Minister Ducarme is currently preparing a proposal to amend the Royal Decree of 3 February 2014 on the designation of the animal diseases subject to reporting. He has told me that the proposal will be sent to the Council of State shortly. Laboratories will now be obliged to report cases of animal contamination to the government in order to better identify them. A working group Wildlife has also been set up within the Risk Assessment Group-COVID Animals to advise on wild fauna infections. The minks belong to the family of the martyr-likes, but that also applies to the ferret, the weasel, the martyr, the bunzing and the otter. I think we have very few otters in the wild here, but the other species do occur here. It is important that people are safe when they come into contact with these animals. Then there was a question from Mrs Jiroflée. The Supreme Court has given opinions to the Risk Management Group. There is a consensus document in which the Supreme Court is the first to state the rational use of masks. The opinions of the Supreme Court have therefore been taken into account. The Supreme Court can always decide to publish the opinions it has given at any time. Those are often good advice. In this regard, too, they have given their attention to three different opinions. The Health Care Staff Fund serves to get more hands on the bed. I've always understood that. I don't see why that should be for anything else right now. Mrs Fonck, I have already answered twice the question on people living with people at risk: on 12 May a question from Mrs Merckx and on 19 May a question from Mrs Samyn. The quarantine certificate is not for the family of a person at risk but for themselves. Other measures must be taken into account. That is how we decided in our contacts. Mrs Rohonyi, there are different views on the resumption of the school. Some are looking forward to the recovery because children want to go back to school. Other parents worry and wonder if the situation is safe for their children. This is why schools have been very active in planning. It must also be said that, since this is a regional competence, there are differences in the implementation of measures in the Regions. Mr. Weyts made a decision after consultation. He has sometimes changed his mind, for example with the distance of 1.5 metres in the classes which was then considered unnecessary. Similarly with regard to the bubble, the class is now one. We learn little by little and we accumulate information on how to organize ourselves against this virus. This was also the case in the other regions. It is the competent ministers who decide. In addition, a great deal of work has also been done by schools. For example, some schools provide outdoor classes. There are also outdoor classes. That is a very different situation than small classes and small premises. They have been very inventive and I think they have made a great effort to have the ability to accommodate children in the best possible circumstances. In the ICD, always with Philippe De Backer, we have asked ministers to have an action strategy when, in one place, someone is ill and is, for example, tested positive. What action will be taken? Establish a kind of protocol, as was done in rest homes, but also in hospitals, and how to act. In this regard, Mrs Glatigny told us that she already had differentiated protocols. It is true that this is an ongoing discussion within the ICD.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u84	I'll take one last turn of the lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u85	Mr President, Minister, I would like to make two brief points. I still haven't gotten the composition of the RAG and the RMG. Put this on the website in a transparent way, so that it can be consulted by everyone. Nor have I received an answer to my question as to whether those reports are public and whether we can consult them. As far as the clinical labs are concerned, there's definitely some very bad communication with those labs. I've heard from several labs that they've released capacity and offered it, but they haven't even received an answer to their e-mail. Things are going wrong there, and it is not fair to say that they have no capacity if there have been no serious attempts to support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u86	Mr President, I have nothing more to add. I think that the Ministers have answered the questions very well and I can go on with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u87	Mr President, I would like to add my voice to what Mr Gijbels said about the labs. Minister, you say that on 3 March you could not know that things would not go so well through that federal platform. Of course, but at that time we warned you very clearly that centralization in that one lab in Leuven caused a huge delay. You actually continued that with the federal platform, because what happened after that? You went to pick up PCR machines from veterinary labs that were closed. I have heard that the veterinary labs that were open wanted to offer their PCR machines, but in their own lab with their own staff, where they could work efficiently. I told you that then. I also told you that a great deal of time would be lost by moving that machinery and by moving or not using the staff that was there. And that's what we're seeing now. The general practitioners prefer not to use that federal platform because there is too much delay and because it is too difficult to follow the diagnostics, because they really need to look for them. You really can't say that everything went smoothly there. There's been a loss of capacity and time. Madam Minister, when we are talking about videos, you have also sent my colleagues a very nice video, at a time when the pharmacists were not on the priority list of care providers. We will now get mouth masks, at a time when we still can't sell our stock because mouth masks are sold in the grocery stores. As far as vaccinations are concerned, you say that you are already in consultation with the big producers, but what is worth discussing if all the producers are already saying that there will be a shortage of flu vaccines? In addition, you answer that you live on hope for the vaccination of COVID-19, which is the hope that the first vaccine will come from a Belgian lab. What are our patients with that hope? We have to negotiate. We must ensure that both our influenza vaccination and the vaccination for the coronavirus are up-to-date and that we have enough vaccines. You still have not answered my question as to how you will deal with the advice given by the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium in October 2019 to involve pharmacists in vaccination. How will you deal with that? Do you have a plan? I ask you to work out a plan so that our patients can be vaccinated against the flu in October-November 2020 and they, when the corona vaccine is in place, can get a vaccine against the corona virus. We all know that this is absolutely necessary if we are to return to a normal life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u88	Mr President, Minister De Backer, Mrs Depoorter has already referred to it. The pharmacists are currently receiving oral masks that are distributed free of charge to the Belgian population. I would just like to see a plan of action on that. You can do that on paper, or you can send us a power point on that plan. How did things go? What are the appointments with the pharmacists? What is expected of them? How do you see the rollout? I would simply like some transparency on the issue. Mrs De Block, the question I received from the dentists is not from Friday 29 May 2020 at all, but from 20 May 2020. They ask for a follow-up, because they apparently received confirmation from the Risk Management Group on 30 April 2020 that there was an initiative for a concession in the pipeline, but they have not received any news about it since then. I just wanted to get that question out. However, we are talking about a different communication. You don't have to answer the question to me. If the dentists get an answer, I'm already very happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u89	Mr President, Mrs De Block's answer does not bring any particular reply. I shall therefore limit myself to wishing you an excellent end of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Hinge. We wish you well, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u91	Mr President, I have nothing specific to add either. Except on the testing capacity, the minister himself admits that this capacity must be better used. We need to test more and faster, also asymptomatic people, etc. Let's go! Let's move on! I note that serological tests will not be repeated for diagnostic tests. That's obviously a shame. It was a clear lead, especially for the health care staff or as part of tracing. I think we're missing something. We'll dig that way again. As far as hospital funding is concerned, I can only reiterate the idea that the situation is likely to worsen even further, since hospitals have not yet resumed their activity. We are far from reaching 100%, including until the end of the year. It is therefore time to prepare and provide a coherent and structural response in financial terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u92	Mr Prévot always follows us but does not wish to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u93	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for answering the questions. I look forward to your e-mail. However, I have not yet received an answer to my question about the numbers of waiting times in child and youth psychiatry, nor to the question of organising a hotline where doctors can go if they use natural products to record their experiences and results. Eventually, that can be a factor that can save people's lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u94	Mrs Farih just left. She told me she hasn't gotten an answer to her question yet. Mrs. De Block, perhaps you should clear that up with her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u95	I'd like to come back to the test capacity. Mr De Backer, you keep saying that it is only your responsibility to provide capacity and not to ensure that the tests are carried out. It is very poignant that you should then place the responsibility on some experts, who in turn even go to the media because they are not heard and the testing capacity is not increased. This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u96	Mr André and I are on the same page. We've been working together perfectly for two and a half months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u97	I'm glad you're working perfectly together. However, you are the minister and you have to make the decisions in the end. Who's running this country? That's you, isn't it? You must make sure it is carried out effectively. That is what the people expect of you, and you say that the number of tests in our country is very high. However, the number of deaths is still very high. Today there were still 19 deaths. That's still a lot. If we're gonna bring this epidemic down, we're gonna have to do a lot of tests. You're underestimating that. A case of a man in Seoul is heavily mediatized. That was a super spreader. In Seoul, 65,000 tests were carried out to detect 170 cases. This means that thousands and thousands of people need to be tested effectively to find hundreds or dozens of people. Only in this way will we be able to return to a normal life and we will be able to take back our social life. That's a real urgency. I do not understand why this is not being done any more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u98	Mrs. Jiroflée has just left, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u99	Mr President, now that I hear that videos are being made at the committee meeting, I will first make sure that I am in the picture. For the third time, Minister, I must wish you all my support in removing the doubts about re-testing in residential care centres in the event of a possible outbreak. As soon as you speak in the Federal Parliament, Flemish Minister Wouter Beke says that he absolutely wants to keep that intermediate step. I fully support you, Minister. Rethink Wouter Beke and, where appropriate, ministers in other regions. Take away that unnecessary switch and retest massively with a possible outbreak, so that there are quick results. The staff in the residential care centers are dropping out. They are sometimes in doubt for weeks because there is no retest. I can't explain why that intermediate step, with a waste of time, still exists. I give you my support for the third time. Do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-02-55-commissie-ic192x.u100	Minister, I feel like I've been raving for weeks about the importance of getting – in case of doubt, but also because of the high rate of asymptomatic patients – the test results within 24 hours. In this way, carrier patients can be effectively isolated. You're telling us things are going to change. It's been going on for a few weeks. We'll see. I hear it's the RMG and the RAG who decide. However, in substance, it is the representatives of the federal government and the Regions. In practice, the executive must give impetus, so that both bodies can decide in the right direction. In terms of serology, I am sorry, but, in evidence based, I cannot share the view that this discipline cannot contribute to the diagnosis. She can and must participate in the catch-up diagnosis. This has been clearly demonstrated in the scientific literature, especially as we know that the PCR gives 30% false negatives. Minister, for the hospitals, let me ask you on their behalf to move forward quickly. We cannot afford to tarry for weeks and months. Indeed, they do not need recoverable advances, but financial compensation guarantees that cover the budget collapse caused by the cessation of activities that you have imposed on them and which you still impose on them in part, as well as the additional cost. Otherwise, it will be a disaster for hospitals, patients and caregivers. Finally, if the quarantine certificate cannot be used by the family, what solution should be recommended for the parent of a child who has primary immunosuppression and should be protected from contact? How can we prevent this parent from becoming infected? We know that these particularly fragile patients must be protected, including by making arrangements for at least one parent. So how can we act professionally in terms of medical coverage? Indeed, we cannot write a classic medical certificate. We should therefore try to resolve this difficulty. Mr President, thank you. We will still have an opportunity to discuss these issues. I wish you all a nice evening.
