ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, it is a very high cliché that our country is known for chocolate and beer. But the connoisseurs know better. We are a country that makes a difference in one sector worldwide. It is a sector in which we are all equal, regardless of whether we are Fleming, Brusselser or Waal. It is a sector with 80,000 jobs and with a lot of creative companies and freelance. That's the event business. Unfortunately, this sector does not have its own minister and is forgotten too often. Madam Prime Minister, our group wants to be the voice of all those involved. It is true that the government has taken measures to support the sector, such as the 100 percent deductibility recently decided and appreciated by the sector. However, more than support, the sector also needs perspective to be able to re-turn sales, do business and serve customers. We are also realistic. No one expects major concerts to be held by 2020. The people involved don't ask that either. Madam Prime Minister, why, when large shops are allowed to receive hundreds of customers at the same time, should trade fairs not be organised, provided that they can continue safely? The industry itself has not been idle and has developed an event matrix that can determine whether organizers can continue a small street party or a big event. The matrix has been discussed several times at the Consultation Committee, in the GEES and in the various working groups. However, you also realise that it is now time to decide. After all, an event or a scholarship is not organised on one-two-three. Madam Prime Minister, that's why I have two questions for you. Firstly, when will the National Security Council give the green light to the sector? Secondly, I hear that some are suggesting that a maximum number of participants per event be set. We do not think that is a good thing. We didn't do that in the hospitality industry either. It's much better to work with customization. Do you agree to that statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u3	Madam Prime Minister, the serious health crisis we are experiencing is turning into a profound economic and social crisis. Priority is given to the most fragile economic structures. I am thinking of our SMEs and self-employed people who, moreover, provide jobs anchored in our home - not delocalised. Many areas were forced to close during confinement. As a result of the gradual breakdown, some can reopen - I am thinking of the Horeca, the local shops - but others are still at a standstill. I am of course thinking of the cultural sector, of the event sector - which is very active in this period - and of the foremen, the travelling merchants, who are also at a standstill and who, beyond the economic dimension, bring conviviality to our cities, our villages and our neighbourhoods and the joy of living, which we all need and all today. Can you give us some prospects for reopening? Will they be given by the next National Security Council (NSC)? If so, when will it take place? Another challenge facing environmentalists is cascading bankruptcies. A recent study by Graydon shows that 40% of SMEs in Brussels are in great difficulty. Most of them, however, were healthy before the crisis. Every effort must be made to combat this phenomenon. Today, the moratorium on bankruptcy has come to an end and we regret that your government has not extended it. It seemed important to us to do so in order to give a breath of oxygen to all these SMEs that are going to resume business by meeting their creditors. Why not extend this moratorium, if only in a short and time-limited manner? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, besides the representative of the people, I am also a city council member in the municipality of Boom. Tomorrowland is of course the most famous festival in our municipality, but dozens of other smaller events continue in De Schorre. In recent weeks and months there has been a ban on mass demonstrations because of the corona measures. We thought of these 400 festivals in the first place, but there are 40,000 other smaller events in our country every year. It is incomprehensible to ban these even longer, especially when we see that similar sectors could be restarted with similar measures. What's different than walking through a large furniture store on a Saturday with hundreds of people on a predetermined route? What is different from visiting a trade fair? What is different from going to a big restaurant where distance rules are used? What is the difference between listening to a speaker or an artist at the same location? Today, with its action at the Heysel, the event sector has rightly sought press attention. Our country is not only home to the most famous festivals, but also numerous companies in this sector. They often emerged in the scenes of the small festivals on the beer bowls, but they grew into world players. Why are they world players? It's not about the material they use, it's about the talent, the people, the passion and the will to work hard. That talent has been at home for three months now and threatens to be home in the coming months. I think that the first and most important objective should be to give them a fresh perspective. Madam Prime Minister, is the government engaging with the event sector? Will the government further elaborate the rules and arrangements for the smaller events so that the summer is not completely lost after all? Is the government considering setting up a specific emergency fund for this sector? Investigates the government how we can speed up the process in consultation with the sector and the FOD WASO (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u5	Madam Prime Minister, everyone involved in the organisation of sport, culture, tourism, congresses and fairs begs for a real restart or yet clarity about dates and protocols. They have united and they have done a good job together with all the authorities involved. They realized the COVID Event Risk Model that brings uniformity to the COVID-safe organisation of sports, culture and other events. The sector proposes to use this model as a mandatory advisory model so that all events and concerts can be tested. The talks of the whole sector with various ministerial cabinets and, finally, with the GEES have brought him to the COVID Event Risk Model. The 80,000 people who are active in this sector today are begging for the application of that system, mandatory for all events. The sector will ensure that anyone who organises something will use the model free of charge and easily and have access to a clear, generic event protocol and associated sector protocols. Together they want to provide a national helpdesk for governments, organizers and individual questions. The COVID Event Risk Model is already included in the professional arts sector guide and as a protocol for sports events and sports competitions. Madam Prime Minister, can the next National Security Council approve the COVID Event Risk Model? Can he also record the dates on which both indoor and outdoor admissions can be increased gradually in July, August and September, preferably without a maximum number?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u6	Mr President, as I have pointed out on several occasions, the exit is a never-seen, complex and gradual exercise where a balance has to be struck between the desire and the need to be able to live a normal life again on the one hand and the health requirements on the other. Unfortunately, some sectors cannot reboot at the same time as others due to the nature of their activity. Some perspectives have already been given today, including for the event sector. I am thinking, for example, of the performances with audiences that will be possible from 1 July with up to 200 people or of the meetings, such as fairs and village festivals, which will take place again from 1 August. However, mass events remain prohibited until 31 August, as we said from the outset. We are aware that between events limited to 200 people and mass events there are a whole series of events for which clear prospects still need to be given. It is in this context that ministers, experts and industry are currently working on a security matrix, the Event Risk Model, which will enable event organisers to assess whether or not an event should take place and under what circumstances. This matrix will be put online as soon as possible, but indeed still needs to be discussed in the National Security Council. At the same time, yesterday, the Concerted Committee met again. We often meet in order to organise the recovery of the still confined sectors. Further meetings are obviously scheduled in the coming days. The relevant ministers are also responsible for drafting protocols with the sectors concerned in order to ensure a safe resumption, and these protocols, as in each case, will have to be validated by the GEES. This very morning, Minister Ducrame met with representatives of the Alliance of Belgian Event Federations to work with them on a containment exit protocol that includes all the necessary dimensions: safe reception of customers, staff who work in the necessary hygiene and safety conditions, guidelines vis-à-vis the organizers. I can see that this situation is difficult for many people who are still waiting. Events always or often require an organization that spans several weeks or months in advance. However, I would remind you that we must remain vigilant about the virus and its evolution. Health must remain a priority. And it is true that it is very difficult today to anticipate already what this health situation will be in two or three months' time. In order to support the sector, I would point out that many measures have already been taken within the framework of the social and economic protection plan. And, as you know, last Friday the Council of Ministers restricted itself to the political formations that gave confidence to the government - this is a distinction that must now be made - has met to agree on a series of additional support measures, including the 100% deduction measure that you mentioned. There was also a request on the course. It is true that there is a maximum course in July to 200. The matrix will help us assess whether a course is still possible. The discussion, I have to say, is still ongoing. Things have not yet been determined and the final decision will be made as it has always been made since the beginning, i.e. on the basis of a detailed opinion of the EGE as to whether or not to maintain a course for August or September, for example, but also taking into account the imperatives of the ground, always with the preservation of the health of our fellow citizens. I repeat that this remains the top priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u7	Thank you for your reply, Madam Prime Minister. As you know, almost all economic sectors have started today. The reboot goes safely and well. The figures are also good, but it is now also time to give a perspective to the event sector. You're hinting at the next National Security Council. That's a good perspective. We are all talking about relance, but if there is one sector that is capable of launching that relance, then it is the event sector. It is a sector with 80,000 people and 9 billion euros turnover. In the trade fair sector, every euro that is spent means 7 euros extra for the economy. You must realise that the sector has already lost two seasons today, spring and summer. They look forward to a good autumn. I hope you can get them that good autumn with the National Security Council. It's about professional people. Crowdcontrol is hun corebusiness. They're the best in the world. So we must also give them the confidence. Go, go, go for the event sector, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers on the resumption of activities. It is indeed important that there be a resumption of life in all its economic aspects – I mentioned it in my question – and on the rest, on life in general. This is a priority for us with, of course, the health aspects. On the other hand, with regard to the proposal for a moratorium on bankruptcies, which I asked you to comment on, you did not reply. I don't understand. This moratorium was extinguished yesterday, June 17. The question is very important to us because we are talking about potential bankruptcies. I do not understand that we were left unanswered because only your government can extend it because it is a royal order. We are seeking a solution. A text is on the table which was discussed yesterday by your political group but which will not be voted on until September on legitimate Council of State issues. It is not clear that this debate is not taking place and that you are not extending this moratorium. However, this is a demand from all the players (UCM, SNI, etc.) of the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. I would have appreciated an answer from you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. However, I regret that we cannot offer a little more perspective to a sector with 80,000 employees and self-employed people. That perspective is so important, not only for professionals in the sector, but also for the many suppliers and volunteers. The perspective is particularly fundamental for the preservation of talent in this sector, human capital. The talent that we have, we really need to be able to preserve. We know that events have a long lead time. An average of three months of preparation is really no exception. We are now on the eve of summer, the high season of events, which is already de facto lost. This sector is not a production company, we cannot build stock that we can sell later. Every day without events is a lost day. The turnover loss is already many billions. I am fully aware that we still have a lot of re-launch measures to take in the long term, but I think that the sector is particularly looking forward to the next National Security Council, which should give them hope. I hope we can give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. COVID Event Risk Model, that is the word we will have to remember in the coming weeks and months. That is the way in which we will organise not only commercial fairs, but in which the entire cultural sector will be able to work with 500 festivals and thousands of small events from amateur organisations and so on. They're all gonna do that together. I understand that you will be doing this in the next few days and hopefully we will know your decision on this at the next National Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u11	Mr Vermeersch's question was a deliberation. We discussed this in detail in the European Affairs Advisory Committee. Mr Vermeersch's group could not be present at the time, but apparently he is based on new elements. The Prime Minister agreed that this question could be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, yesterday the Dutch Chamber debated the European recovery fund of EUR 750 billion. The Dutch MEPs do not want to know about gifts to the southern European countries. My first question, Madam Prime Minister, is whether you will support tomorrow, Friday, the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden? We deliberately call these countries 'the sensible four', not 'the economical four' or 'the foul four'. The term recovery fund is, after all, extremely misleading. There is hardly any connection between that fund and the recovery after the corona crisis. The vast majority of these EUR 750 billion will be distributed on the basis of unemployment rates between 2015 and 2019, population size, and GDP in 2019. Factors that have absolutely nothing to do with the corona crisis. Belgium has one of the highest mortality rates and today is labeled in The Economist as the country that has the worst impact on the world's corona crisis. Nevertheless, Belgium is divided into this fund. Corona is thus being abused by the European Commission to make the EU bigger and to push the transfer union further. The way this is done by this proposal is new. On the one hand, the Commission itself wants to take out loans on the financial markets, so it wants to make common debts, and on the other hand it wants to work on its own European sources of income. So European taxes. My second question is therefore: what are your views on the division of Belgium, new European debts and new European taxes? Finally, while our budget deficit amounts to EUR 50 billion, according to Knack and Le Soir yesterday, Belgium should contribute around EUR 17 billion to this recovery fund. Your minority government represents 38 seats out of 150 here in this House. Your minority government represents only 25% of Parliament here. So my question is: who are you speaking for, Madam Prime Minister? On behalf of whom will you distribute many billions of euros in taxpayers' money in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u13	Mr Vermeersch, I have not noticed any new element in your question compared to the debate we had in committee the day before yesterday. You have told me that there are new elements. In particular, a press article would have been published with new elements, but the Advisory Committee on European Affairs had a detailed exchange of views on the points you are raising. Your group has not taken the floor and now you are relying on new elements that are not there. In future, I will be stricter in assessing the admissibility of questions. I am giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to respond to the elements to which she wishes to respond, but for my part she can also refer to the detailed answers she gave the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u14	Mr President, there are indeed new elements. The Dutch Prime Minister stated in the press yesterday that he...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u15	Mr Vermeersch, you do not have the floor. You have put forward three elements, namely the representation of the government in the Chamber and so on, but on the basis of the debate we had the day before yesterday in the advisory committee, these are not new elements. I'm declaring that here formally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u16	Mr President, there were many people present at the interesting debate in committee. We have heard different views, but Flemish Interest did not have the courtesy to be there. However, there was the possibility of asking questions and no additional information has been available since the topical debate. I therefore refer to the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, I note that this is correct from your point of view. Mr Vermeersch, you are entitled to speak for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u18	Mr President, I think this is an outrageous display. Our economy is currently taking heavy hits and sectors like the catering and event industry are fighting to survive. Companies go bankrupt and hundreds of thousands of employees and self-employed people risk losing their jobs. Unbelievably many people have difficulty paying their rent, loans, health care and groceries for the family. Madam Prime Minister, how inappropriate and shameless it is to give EUR 750 billion as a gift or loan to certain countries, mainly Italy, Spain and Greece. Every penny left in our state treasury must go to our own people, our own economy, our own labour market and our own purchasing power. Mr President, we ask the Prime Minister to finally defend the interests of our own citizens and to veto tomorrow this EUR 750 billion pot to which we must contribute EUR 17 billion. Less is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u19	Your time is up. I repeat what I have just said, I find it shameful that you sent your cat to committee the day before yesterday and that you are asking this question here today. You are doing so to the detriment of all other colleagues who do have the discipline to come to a committee meeting to ask their questions. You're the only one who doesn't. Now you are trying to put up a number here in plenary. I regret that. From now on, I will consider the admissibility of each question much more scruply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u20	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, Belgium has given the worst response to the crisis of coronavirus among OECD countries. I'm not saying it. This is the title of an article published by CNBC this Wednesday, which refers to a ranking developed by the Economist Intelligence Unit. Various risk factors have been taken into account, such as the prevalence of obesity, the proportion of the population over the age of 65 or international movements. These factors were linked to three quality of response indicators: screening tests, continuity of non-VOCID care, and rate of virus-related deaths. As a result, Belgium is in last place in the rankings, just behind the UK, Spain and Italy. Our country achieves the worst score of the countries studied, in particular, but not only, because of its highest per capita mortality rate in the world. Madam Prime Minister, which countries seem to have provided the strongest and most appropriate response to this crisis? New Zealand, Australia, Denmark and Germany are at the top of this ranking. What is the key to success? A quick and strong reaction from the beginning of the crisis, while, at home, we spoke ironically of "rappet". It was said that wearing the mask was not necessary. The testing dragged. Today, the results of the tests are still waiting. What are the lessons to be learned, Madam Prime Minister? We must at least really avoid the mistakes of the past. Indeed, if all the indicators are currently green in our country, it would be unacceptable if we were not well prepared for the future. Prime Minister, what is on the table today? Do you have an effective, coordinated comprehensive crisis management plan? Are we ready to face a possible rebound in the epidemic or a possible second wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u21	Mr President, it is true that there have been many articles and studies. The results of these studies do not all agree. The conclusions are sometimes opposed. As you said, the ranking in question was determined by weighing three risk factors: the incidence of obesity, the proportion of elderly people in the territory, and the number of international travellers present. These three risk factors are linked to three quality of response indicators: number of tests, availability of health care and mortality rate. The first important element in the overall outcome is the mortality rate; it weighs four times as much in the overall outcome as all other factors. We need to be careful about that. While Belgium's rating for indicators on the number of tests and availability of health care is good or very good, the fact that we have a high mortality rate does have a major impact on our final outcome. I have not yet had time to deconstruct the entire methodology. It is always worth visiting the sources and methodology. But in any case, I can already tell you that, more generally, Belgium has often been pointed at in relation to the mortality it has experienced. According to a comparison of official figures, Belgium has a higher number of deaths per million inhabitants. However, how to account for deaths is fundamental. It is known that not all countries account for the number of deaths in the same way. For example, in some countries, only hospital deaths are recorded and therefore not those that occurred in nursing homes. In other countries, only deceased persons whose VOCID-19 has been confirmed by a test are included in the official data, excluding "possible cases". In others, normal accounting was applied, but later, without catching up with earlier deaths. In Belgium, we have taken into account both hospital deaths, deaths in nursing homes, confirmed VOCID-19 deaths and "possible cases of VOCID-19" deaths. In total, according to the latest figures, there are 4,710 hospital deaths in Belgium, 95% of which are confirmed as VOCID-19, and 4,849 deaths in nursing homes, of which only 27% are confirmed as VOCID-19. I recall that the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control congratulated Belgium on its transparent way of reporting VOCID-19 deaths, and invited other countries to draw inspiration from them. This complete and transparent way of reporting deaths, however, must not lead to hasty conclusions that would unfairly place us in the wrong students and lead to erroneous conclusions. Moreover, it is known that the spread of the virus is strongly linked to the population density of the country. Thus, comparing Belgium with other countries that are much less dense makes little sense. You talked about Australia and New Zealand. Personally, when you talk about Australia, it always makes me happy. But to have visited it or to know it by other means, I can assure you that Australia is a country far less densely populated than Belgium. It would be much more relevant to compare Belgium with comparable European regions in terms of size and number of inhabitants. In short, in order to compare countries well, it is necessary to compare what is comparable, that is, overmortality, which does not depend on the system of counting in relation to population density. In this case, Belgium is far from being able to be pointed at. Does that mean that crisis management has been perfect? That's not what I mean. But I'm just saying that you always have to be very careful when you go to school. We have to look back, the methodology and the sources, in order to avoid drawing conclusions that are more catastrophic than reality. I'll finish with a word, Mr. President. We're talking about deaths, we're talking about statistics. Behind, there are lives that have gone, there are families that are bereaved, there are people who are sad to have lost their loved ones. I think we can't finish this question without thinking about them, over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u22	Mrs. Tillieux, you'll have twice the time to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u23	Prime Minister, I hear your reaction, and I expected it. Indeed, the mortality rate is four times higher than the other components. It's a fact, in your opinion, in the study. You're talking about population density, but there are countries like Denmark where the population density is higher; yet it's not badly classified. Finally, you regularly highlight the method of counting to explain the significant number of deaths our country has experienced. Not all of this explains everything. Should I remind you today of the destruction of the strategic mask stock that has not been renewed? Should I remind you of the protective equipment that was missing for weeks at the beginning of the crisis? Remember, remember, remember, remember, And the saga of masks for the citizens! Hospitals, who have been ordered to stop non-emergency care, but have not received any other clear instructions, other clear guidelines. I am also thinking of the harsh conditions in which caregivers have faced the virus. How many questions did my colleagues in the Committee on Public Health have to ask before the number of tests increased? Do I also need to remind you of the budget cuts that have been imposed on our health care and that inevitably have had an impact on the management of this crisis? Of course, Madam Prime Minister, you have tried to do as much as possible to deal with this crisis, just as the situation is notoriously complex, but we must now change direction and act differently. That you must hear!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u24	Minister, for too long, our justice has been ill. For too long, our justice has been the same as the Brussels courthouse, which is now under water. After five years of reform and budget cuts, this justice is no longer only sick, it is in a coma. In the last election campaign, you made a commitment to revive it by injecting nearly 750 million euros into it. But a health crisis went through that, adding a little more to our budget deficit. One of the consequences of this crisis will be that justice will be even more sought by citizens facing debts, bankruptcies and dismissals. It is therefore urgent to democratize access to justice and to increase the resources of our courts and tribunals. Listening to the parties of the majority is impossible. They said in committee last week that this requires a full-fledged government. Except that when it comes to reforms that have nothing to do with the coronavirus crisis but that touch on essential aspects of our democracy and the rights of the litigants, we suddenly no longer need a full-fledged government. I am referring here to the legislative proposals drafted by your government – by your own cabinet – that seek no more or less to abolish the court of assizes, to abolish the investigating judge and to generalize the use of written procedure and videoconference. These proposals have aroused a real outcry among the entire judiciary, so that it has spoken of an anti-democratic coup de force. Minister, what do you have to answer today to all of these magistrates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u25	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you. As always, it is a pleasure to answer your questions. But I am surprised by the fact that these are bills that do not come from the government or your servant, but from the CD&V. The first concerns various measures concerning digitisation and effectiveness in relation to elements such as civil status, guardianship, and was first presented to the ten parties, including yours. This bill was passed with a large majority in this Parliament for urgent treatment and was then sent to the Council of State. At the time of its introduction to the Committee on Justice, we agreed - you agreed because I was not there - two things: first, we would wait for the opinions before discussing them; then, some things could be withdrawn in the absence of a consensus in this respect. I am already thinking, Mrs Rohonyi, of the written procedure because, let us be honest, it is only about that! The proposal sent to the Council of State came back on 10 June. Criticisms are expressed in some notices that I read in newspapers from time to time, before receiving them. You will tell me that it is a political method; I agree, it is no big deal. These opinions indicate that the debate in Parliament began before the various opinions were received. But the debate will only take place from 24 June and there will still be consultation between the ten parties concerned, including yours. In all requests for opinions, it was stated that obtaining opinions was intended to initiate a rapid discussion in Parliament, but flexibility was granted upon request, among other things, from the Supreme Council of Justice. You referred to the bill tabled by Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Bercy Slegers concerning criminal procedure. This is a continuation of the 2014 government agreement. The experts wanted to finish their job. Mrs Rohonyi, this is the third project in 40 years after the Bekaert and Franchimont projects. They all missed. This is the third attempt to reform the criminal procedure. If we continue this way, I am sure, the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1808 will survive Belgium. It's no big deal, but I'm afraid that's the case! Be open-minded enough to get to know it: it is a solid product, full of common sense, but it is highly contested in the judiciary, in the lawyer. There is no special agreement on such matters, as on the reform of the Belgian State, and Mrs Rohonyi. But we have to agree at some point. Opinions are not necessarily there for follow-up, but they must be taken into account. Most of you did not take into account the opinion of the College of Attorneys General, regarding the payment order for corona offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u26	I would ask the members of the government to respect the Rules of Procedure. There is a limit on speaking time. I shall have it applied to Members of Parliament. Minister, you have spent more than one and a half minutes on your reply time. I must note that, if I want to be just and correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I must clarify certain points. First, if the Royal Order of Special Powers made it possible to generalize the written procedure as well as the use of videoconferencing, it was only because we were then in the midst of a period of confinement. Such measures should be exceptional and temporary. In other words, today you cannot use this royal decree, in particular, and the special powers, in general, to perpetuate these provisions - much more so when they have the effect of violating the rights of litigants. Secondly, with regard to the reform of the criminal procedure, you say that it is ultimately a matter of implementing the Michel government agreement. Only, and you know very well, the Michel government is no longer relevant. Thirdly, let me tell you that you are wrong about fighting. At this moment, what justice needs is not an umpteenth rotten law, which will lead to the emptying of justice from its meaning. No! What she needs is human and material resources that are commensurate with her mission. If there's an emergency right now, minister, it's that one!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u28	Mr President, Minister, fortunately there is social security in our country! This security which the right-wing parties so often attack, it is happy that it is there; otherwise the impact of the crisis of the coronavirus would be a social catastrophe. Despite its existence, a new report by the National Bank of Belgium shows the serious effects of the pandemic on the incomes of the weakest. Consider, in particular, small self-employed people, job students, temporary unemployed workers. These three categories have lost more than 30% of their income in this coronavirus crisis. Last month, another study by the National Bank found that in three years, 80 per cent of the population had become impoverished, while the richest 20 per cent had seen their wealth increase. We know that internationally, someone like Jeff Bezos, Amazon's boss, had raised 18 billion. We know that in Belgium, the case also arises. The Colruyt family testifies to this. I printed the curve of his action. In mid-March, the course of the Colruyt action exploded. I would remind you that this is Belgium's seventh fortune. Minister, my question will ultimately be very simple. Who has to pay for this crisis? Let us, as always, ask the population (social workers, workers, etc.).), by blocking wages and austerity measures affecting public services and social security? Or, for once, could we not reach the richest 1% or 2% of the population – like the coronavirus tax proposed by the PTB? This would be an exceptional tax, one shot, of 5% on the fortunes of more than three million euros. There, the alternative is simple. So I would like to know what your choice is, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u29	Mr President, Minister, according to the governor of the Central Bank, the health crisis has modestly affected the purchasing power of the Belgians. Move, there's nothing to see! The crisis has nothing to do with inequality, and inequality has nothing to do with the crisis. Moreover, savings are increasing, since Belgians have consumed less. Hide these inequalities that I can't see! Out of my sight, this vulgar poverty! Minister, there is the Governor's speech, and then there is the reality of the numbers. Figures from his report. And then, the inequalities explode in our faces. The first victims of the crisis are the lowest incomes. The less you win, the more you lose, and for the longest time. Those low incomes, who are they? Workers in hotels, restaurants, maintenance staff, job students, small independents in the sectors who had to close pavilions, etc. Yes, minister, the savings rate is rising. But it's about saving the richest. Half of Belgians can hold no more than three months with their savings. And 28% of them have no savings at all! The inequalities that had already been excavated by the Michel government, the crisis of the VOCID-19 only further deepened them. You will never be surprised to hear me quote Joseph Stiglitz or Thomas Piketty. But perhaps you will be a little more so by hearing me quote Paul De Grauwe, former Senator of the Open Vld, who, lucid about the situation, launches the idea of a contribution of crisis of the big assets. A one shot that would make ten billion. Ten billion in the name of tax justice, in the name of recovery and against inequality. I could also quote Bruno Colmant, who calls for massive state support for the lowest incomes. Minister, what is your response to all these evidences that the crisis of the VOCID-19 has deepened inequalities? How do you respond to this idea of Mr. From Grauwe a crisis contribution as a solution to finance recovery policies at the same time as fighting inequality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u30	Mr President, gentlemen, a study by the National Bank always gives the opportunity for selective readings. In these reports, everyone is looking for the elements that please him most. I read the study. For me, three main conclusions are to be drawn. First, the self-employed were the most affected. They lost 40 per cent of their income. Often, their sectors were the most affected. Second, temporary unemployed workers also suffered considerable income losses. Thirdly, the lowest wages are the most affected, often also because of the sectors in which they work. People with low incomes often do not have much financial margin. Clearly, if a crisis persists, the impact on them could be very lasting. What was the government's policy in the face of this crisis? Firstly, the system of temporary unemployment has been extended, with one aim: to limit the number of redundancies to a maximum. Moreover, we have increased the replacement rate. In addition, an ONEM supplement has been provided to prevent people from losing too much purchasing power. Second, the bridge right for the highly affected self-employed was relaxed. In addition, we have not only worked on revenues, but also on expenditures. For example, the banking moratorium system: 120,000 mortgages were placed in a moratorium system. For these 120,000 families, this has made a huge difference. The question is: what should we do now? I can see from hearing you a very Belgian creativity. You are still looking for new taxes to solve an economic crisis. Mr Van Hees, you said, "Happily there is social security." The real question, and I hope it is the one that will arise in this Parliament, is: "What is the financing of this Belgian social security of which we are so proud?" It's an economy that's recovering. Without an economy that recovers, there will be underfunding of social security. The real question is not whether to tax more or point at one or the other, the real question is how to restart this economy, how to help people who have lost their jobs to find a new job. These are the real questions. It is not by taxing more that we can revive the economy and allow people to find a new job, it is by working together and returning to the real priority, namely the economic recovery to which – I hope – we will soon be able to tackle with a strengthened government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u31	Minister, you are asking the question of who is funding social security. Who finances the latter? Workers. What definances social security? These are your measurements and gifts to the bosses for years. Today, 16 billion wage subsidies are allocated to them, an amount which definances social security. That is the reality. The policy you have been pursuing for years is to make the workers pay to enrich the richest. Today we see the result. Twenty years ago, there was a billionaire family in Belgium. They are currently 27. These 27 families together have more than 100 billion euros. Your policy has led to a pile of fortunes in the hands of a few (1% of the population). They are the ones we want to charge rather than the others 99%, as you have traditionally done. But I hear your answer: there is no question of changing. We're gonna do what we've always done. We're gonna make people pay and the rich will be able to keep getting rich without paying taxes. Here's your message, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u32	Minister, thank you. You have provided answers to the urgency of the crisis and we have participated in it with constant concern for the situation of workers. Now we need to think about the recovery and how we will activate an effective recovery policy. To do so, we will have to review our fundamentals and structurally rethink our economic system. I would point out that 5% of the richest have at least EUR 1 million and 30% of this group of rich own 30% of all assets, i.e. EUR 475 billion. Mr Minister, in the face of urgency, we must show common sense and opt for creative solutions: a contribution of crisis of the great assets which, according to your "camarad" Paul De Grauwe, would earn ten billion euros. This kind of solution cannot be neglected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u33	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago you decided to grant a loan to Aviapartner to ensure that the company can continue to operate. Of course, there's something to be said for that. The aviation sector has been hit very hard by the corona crisis. As aviation activities at Brussels Airport are beginning to start up again, the aircraft leaving and arriving must be loaded and unloaded. That's exactly what Aviapartner does. Aviapartner will, of course, like all other airlines, also go through very heavy weather. A week ago, however, we regretted that 1,500 people lost their jobs because Swissport went bankrupt. Swissport also handled planes. Swissport was also strongly affected by the crisis. Because of the bankruptcy of Swissport, we must now look for a second handler. That is compulsory. According to Mr Bellot, this search could take six months. The obvious question then arises as to whether it would not have been better for both companies to keep their heads above water. Then maybe 1,500 layoffs wouldn't have happened. On the basis of what criteria does the government decide not to help one company and the other? What conditions are attached to the support to Aviapartner?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I once heard you say that you would only spend solitary firms' money in order to survive the corona crisis. Now you're giving Aviapartner a 25 million loan. Aviapartner's been making a ten-year loss. Since November last year, it has been paying virtually no more bills. You can check it yourself, the airports of Ostend and Antwerp both have 300,000 euros to pay. This is the second company that threatens to go bankrupt because of the ruthless competition and the prices imposed by Brussels Airlines and TUI. Aviapartner came to you in April and then asked for 15 to 20 million euros. Swissport asked for 20 to 30 million. You didn't give Swissport anything and the result is 1,500 people. You'll give Aviapartner $25 million. Based on what solvency standards did you do this? While Aviapartner was negotiating with you, the company was sold. You are well aware that a certain Mr Laurent Levaux has probably bought out his American partner for 1 euro. You give 25 million to this person, with a holding company in Luxembourg. I'll give you his track record. Aviapartner is basically a wandering cesspool. Do you remember ABX? You know 3i. 3i bought ABX for EUR 100 million, which remains to be doubted, and resold for EUR 750 million. Who's gotten richer? The Danes have become richer and Mr Levaux has become richer. We know more about Mr Levaux, including Nethys and Electrawinds. One company, Swissport with 1,500 employees, lets you go bankrupt and the other company, Aviapartner, will favour you. What's the guarantee? For a convertible loan one can usually (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u35	Mr President, last night the Council of Ministers gave the Federal Participation and Investment Company (FPIM) the green light to grant a convertible loan to Aviapartner. Perhaps it is important to point out the elements. It covers a maximum of EUR 25 million and a maximum planned duration of six years. If the loan is not repaid, it can be converted into shares, in accordance with the characteristics of a convertible loan. The coupon is progressive. There are also two important side-conditions. The funding should only be used for Belgian activities. As long as the loan runs, Aviapartner is not allowed to buy capital, pay dividends, etc. From a legitimate concern, you are both asking a question about the criteria we use to decide which companies we finance. Well, we use four criteria. The first criterion is the question, if the company goes overboard, or if it has a systemic impact with wide-ranging consequences for our economy. In the case of Aviapartner, that is clearly the case. It's about 60,000 direct and indirect jobs around our airport. If the airport does not have a ground handling agent, the activity will stop there. The granting of a new licence to a new player takes many months and would lead to a de facto blocking of operations at the airport. The second criterion is whether there is a future plan, a plan that indicates where the company wants to go and whether the company can develop a profitable activity. The third criterion is whether the owner is willing to make an effort himself. With Aviapartner that is very clear. We have forced a shareholder loan, i.e. a loan from the current shareholders, to be converted into capital. It concerns an amount similar to the amount injected by the Federal Participation and Investment Company. So I can say more or less that for the resources we put into it, the shareholder himself is also obliged to cross the bridge. The fourth element is that the aid must comply with the framework of the temporary scheme established by the European Commission. That's the case. We will, of course, notify this as a form of state aid, which is permitted in these circumstances. So I come to the question you have both asked: why Aviapartner does and Swissport doesn't? Swissport held a meeting with the Federal Participation and Investment Company on 14 April and informally informed there about the conditions for financing. The FPIM then communicated the four criteria I have listed here, and I can only conclude that there was no follow-up on the Swissport side after that. So if the question is why one is supported and the other is not, then the answer is because one has asked a question, has listened to our criteria and has drawn up a plan on the basis of them. The other asked the question, but nothing happened after that. It's about a private company. I find this particularly regrettable and very hard for the 1,500 Swissport employees, but the Swissport owner has never asked a formal question to the FPIM within our criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u36	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. The criteria are very clear and I take note of the fact that one company is taking action and not the other. Colleagues, I hope that if a second handling company is found, we will still consider the race to the bottom that is going on in the aviation sector. It is not true that until before the corona crisis, the number of passengers at Brussels Airport continued to increase and that the two handlers were both loss-making? There's a race to the bottom going on that's paid for by the employees of those companies. Heavy work, low wages and no protection, that is the real price of the cheap tickets with which airlines compete. I welcome the fact that you have thrown a lifeboat, but that is only the beginning to restore the health of that deadly sector and ensure that workers in that sector can count on a decent future perspective and proper protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u37	Mr Minister, the race to the bottom was only possible because there were monopolists like TUI and Brussels Airlines and also because those companies were stopped. We must also look honestly at what has happened in the past. Minister, I absolutely have questions about your solvency assessment. It is again a structure of la Belgique à papa. Everything behind that walking cesspool doesn't date from this year. For fifteen years there has been an incredible competition between Aviapartner and Swissport, and that battle has been conducted politically. Now that whole monopoly is being re-established. You give a monopoly through Aviapartner to a person who, in my opinion, represents la Belgique à daddy and does not deserve it. At the moment when there is a very big corona crisis, you give 25 million euros to a person who is buying out his partner, and they are probably rumors, but they are usually just about one euro. I have the greatest reservations about this, I have the greatest reservations about the past, about what happened with 3i or Nethys. I don't want any more stories like in the ARCO file or the Belfius file. Also today this pot stinks just as hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u38	Mr President, Minister, in the wake of the demonstrations in the United States, a debate was born in Belgium on police violence against "racised" people, if I believe some presses who use this expression that I personally do not appreciate. This morning, on Radio 1, the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, Marc De Mesmaeker, stated that there is no structural problem of racism in the police but of course does not deny some specific slippages against which it is obviously necessary to fight. We must condemn any form of police violence, any slippage, any inappropriate behaviour on the part of our police officers. But these behaviours and the echo of them must never leave us unreacted in the face of violence against the police. Those acts of violence must also be condemned and acted upon. That's not always the case. Minister, the police staff announced that they will be demonstrating tomorrow in several major cities across the country. One of the motivations of the demonstration is the media bash that police officers consider to be the object of. As Liberals, we are committed to freedom of expression, to freedom of the press. It's fundamental! But the atmosphere is unhealthy. Police officers feel they have become targets, especially in the media. In recent times, it seems to us that a hasty generalization is being made and spread. All in the same bag! This feeling is of course unbearable for all police officers who exercise their profession rigorously and professionally. Minister, do you share the analysis of the Commissioner General of the Federal Police? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u39	Mr Pivin, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u40	Minister, the police have been in the news a lot lately and it is not stopping. There are the shocking images of violence against the police; demonstrations are hijacked by plundering youth gangs who show an appalling lack of respect for the police; reports are constantly posted on social media and elsewhere that portray the police as racist and even violent; problems that occur on the other side of the ocean are being transferred into our police force unannounced. Like many others this morning, I also heard the indignation of the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, Marc De Mesmaeker. We share that deep indignation. There's no way the cops are always head of Jut's. There is no question of creating an atmosphere as if the whole of the police had a structural problem of racism. It is not true that when there are clear cases of manifest violence against the police, they begin to relativize or to contextualize them. The police have a vital and crucial role in society: it is responsible for our security, the security of all our citizens. A well-functioning society needs a well-functioning police force, which can do its job with the necessary authority, authority and respect. We therefore want a very clear signal from the government, and above all from you as Minister of the Interior, that the government is behind its police and its policemen. The police expect it and deserve it. Hence a very simple question, Minister. What will you do about this in the next few days and weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the problems you have outlined are concerned, there is a bad social trend in the country and the country, although the situation abroad cannot be an alibi in our discussion. I am fighting this bad trend with all the means I have been given. You know that; so do the police. I listened to the message from the Commissioner-General this morning. I have heard the messages of the Commissioner-General. I fully agree with him that our policemen deserve our daily respect. I have also explained this in both national languages as a result of incidents in Brussels and in other places in our country. The policemen stand in for our safety day and night. They have helped and are constantly helping to overcome the corona crisis. They sometimes need to tackle particularly violent manifestations or expressions of violence. Too often, I think, they end up in threatening situations. There is really a problem that policemen can hardly build up their defenses as long as an investigation is ongoing, while the other parties involved in the incident can often spread a one-sided view of that incident and of social problems through classical or social media. Colleagues, I understand their exasperation. I referred to complaints of racism or violence against the police at the last meeting of our committee. These complaints are a regular counter-strategy used by criminal groups and I will never accept that. On account of this, there is an appeal within the police to take action to denounce violence against the police. I understand their feelings. I therefore ask the police to respect the health measures related to coronavirus and to be creative in keeping in mind their role as an example. Violence against the police is not and will never be tolerated. The police services find me a reliable partner. They know that and they support me in my approach. In addition, hearings will be held shortly in this Parliament on violence against the police and relief services. On this occasion, I will plead for zero tolerance, which is applicable, and for a policy of immediate justice response. In short, there is no room in our country, no place for violence against our police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u42	Mr Minister, thank you for your extremely clear and precise answer because, at the time of continuous information, at the time of social networks, the risks of amalgam, as you know me, are very great. There is therefore a need for more pedagogy, nuance and objectivity, particularly in the media. Otherwise, there is harm to the rule of law and harm to the police officers who are the guarantors of this rule of law. The police officers, as you said before I pointed out, were among those professionals on the front line and we were keen to support them during the peak of the pandemic. Today, I say this again strongly and clearly: we support what we can call the blues of the police and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I can only repeat my call to ensure that the police feel supported in their actions and that they know that the government is behind them because they also show this in the support they will provide in the coming period. I am very much looking forward to the hearings on police violence on 7 July 2020 and to the position you will take on that occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u44	Mr President, Minister, healthcare personnel are taking action today. They ask for more staff, better working conditions and better remuneration. In short, they demand much more respect. Over the last few months, the staff received applause every night. Applause is not enough, however, and there is a need for a structural solution. Today, Madam Minister, we are already taking a very important step in this Parliament. I am therefore proud that Mr Bertels has taken the lead in bringing EUR 400 million to the care staff this year, for additional recruitment, additional training and better working conditions. However, more is needed. Structural measures are needed to genuinely re-evaluate this sector. That's a question that's been asked before the corona crisis. It takes more staff to get more hands on the bed. Better working conditions are needed because staff are under enormous pressure. We need a better reward if we really want to respect those people. The government has made several promises. You say you want to reach an agreement by 21 July. Will you respond to the demand of the sector and will they finally get the respect and appreciation they deserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u45	Mr President, Minister, sometimes politics is about life and death. I said those words here in December in a debate on the healthcare sector, when we learned from a study that our nurses have to take care of too many patients, which costs people's lives. The care sector said it's on its gums. Then a global pandemic broke out. Our healthcare sector, our doctors, nurses and care staff, have given the best of themselves for months. They did not ask in advance when the demands already existed before the corona crisis were met. The people have seen that they gave the best of themselves and saved lives at the risk of getting sick themselves or infecting their families. The population recognized the profession more than ever, including by applauding every evening at 8 p.m. and by statements of support from all sides of the country. With applause, the loan cannot be paid off. Support statements do not reduce the workload. The recognition does not bring extra hands to the bed. More is needed, and that is a political choice. We have gone beyond the limits of savings in the healthcare sector. The care sector was already on its gums before the corona crisis. The crisis has only made it painfully clear that the questions were justified. That is why the healthcare sector is taking action again today. Madam Minister, how will you answer the questions that the healthcare sector is asking today in the short term? The care sector literally turns its back on you, out of anger. What do you say to that? At the same time, the healthcare sector is reaching out to you to form a pact together. How do you respond to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u46	Madam Minister, if there is one title that has been awarded more than deserved in recent months, it is: the heroes of care. Every week, in this plenary and in the committees, we are right to ask for respect for these people and for the hard work they have done. After more than three months of hard work, the healthcare sector is now putting its demands on the table. More staff are required to meet the high workload, and they are also asked to be financially rewarded for the hard work after this unprecedented health crisis. Soon we will vote on the bill on the Health Care Staff Fund, which I have submitted, together with a number of colleagues from almost all the other parties. It was adopted unanimously in committee. I hope that we will soon be able to approve it by a very large majority. We are already taking an important first step with the Health Care Staff Fund. We provide EUR 402 million for the healthcare sector. A significant part of this money should allow more hands on the bed, in the hospital and at home. We also provide resources to attract additional people, including by educating people to become nurses. Currently, around 20,000 people have a degree in the healthcare sector, but they are not active in the healthcare sector. We want to re-activate these people. In this way, we also want to help residential care centres and home care services to find staff more easily. We also want this fund to make the profession more attractive, so that even more people choose to take care training. An important point of attention is also those who keep people on board. That requires, among other things, a better remuneration. My question is therefore, Madam Minister, how do you intend to make the profession of nurses and healthcare professionals more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, Mrs Creemers, Mr De Caluwe, thank you for your questions. The healthcare sector is asking for structural support in health care today on its day of action. The proposals are on the table of social consultation with the federal health sector. I and my fellow ministers Muylle and Clarinval have already succeeded in having three constructive meetings. This is a matter of consultation with the social partners, in which they put their demands on the table. The intention is to make a social agreement in the coming month, which would also apply in the coming years, as we did last time. Last time we made a social agreement for a period of four years. Mrs Kitir, as you mentioned, is the first step, which is also important to them, the Health Care Staff Fund. This is a proposal tabled by Mr Bertels, which has been widely supported by the Chamber. I hope that the proposal will be adopted here today. The proposal is the result of a difficult exercise in the Chamber, which lasted eight months. The Health Care Staff Fund provides for the possibility to recruit more caregivers to get more hands on the bed, as well as to train more people to be nurses or caregivers. More hands on the bed is a long-heard cry. We understand that. After all, there are more than 5,000 vacancies in the healthcare sector, where we know that only one vacancy in three is filled and that fewer people from the training are received than they are retired. There is therefore a structural problem in this area. The next step is to examine, together with the sector, the needs of health care workers in terms of pay and working conditions, and to see how we will respond to these needs in the future. You are asking me specific questions. However, it was agreed at the table to discuss in serenity. You have pointed out that they reach out to me. I'll take them. We sat around the table. We have every interest in ensuring that the consultations are conducted in a serene manner and not all of us stand on the barricades. I fully understand the actions that the sector had planned and will take in the meantime. We will continue to work with three people in this government to facilitate social dialogue and to conclude a social pact for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u48	Madam Secretary, you acknowledge the problem and everything begins with it. It is good that you have taken the necessary steps to reach an agreement and that you have appointed the industry's demand for more staff, more training, better working conditions and better remuneration. I sincerely hope that there will be a result. We have shown our respect and almost everyone here has applauded every evening, but in order to really show those people our appreciation, you must come to Parliament with a good proposal that meets their demands and that we can vote unanimously here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Constructive consultation in a serene atmosphere can only be welcomed. Let us hope that it will be a very good agreement, with which everyone is satisfied. The applause, the recognition and the statements of support show that there really is broad support for the people to honour the heroes of care, but actually all the essential professions that have kept our country running over the past three months and to take structural measures. That applause is not enough. I'm glad everyone here understands that more needs to be done. The Health Care Staff Fund is very good. My colleague Laurence Hennuy has been very helpful in bringing that to a good agreement. Please don't let that be a cloth for the bleeding. We need more, in the interests of the caregivers and the patients they care for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am also very pleased that you have grabbed the outstretched hand of the care staff and of the sector. I am also pleased to hear that you are doing what is necessary to reach an agreement, together with the social partners. It is indeed important not only to focus on financial resources. We must also ensure that there is additional influx. No one has any false promises from extra nurses who can't be found on the market. You said it yourself, out of 5,000 vacancies, only a third are filled. We must therefore make the profession more attractive. We need to make sure that people who want to start studies, and more importantly, that people want to remain active in the job. I look forward to the agreement you will conclude with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u51	Madam Minister, it is time to take stock of the last three months, because all citizens are entitled to the truth. What just happened to our mouth masks and the strategic stock of the mouth masks? Many scientists point out that, because we did not have a strategic stock, we sent our caregivers to the front without proper protection against COVID-19. Probably killed because we didn't have a strategic stock anymore. So the point is very important. We already knew, Madam Secretary, that you decided in November 2018 that millions of masks would be burned. That's what you decided. What we didn't know, ladies and gentlemen, is why that decision was made. Why was this decision made? You answered, minister, saying that the renewal of this stock was too expensive. In other words, EUR 100 million was too much to ensure the protection of our healthcare staff. Minister, who made this decision exactly? Did you decide that it was too expensive, without consulting anyone or was this decision taken after discussion in the Council of Ministers? We have the right to know the truth. Secondly, Madam Secretary, in an interview with Knack you say: "The plan for a new stock was not really ready when I looked at it. It was only a draft." Was there a plan or was there no plan for a new stock, Madam Secretary? We are entitled to an answer. Third, you state that it was not possible to spend such an amount because of the current business period. Remember: this means that the continuity of public service, the continuity of strategic stocks can no longer be guaranteed in this country because we are in day-to-day business! (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u52	Mr Hedebouw, the subject has been discussed repeatedly in committee meetings. The strategic stock was destroyed because the expiration date had expired and the quality was undersized. That's why the stock was destroyed after an inspection by the FPS Public Health. There was indeed a plan to build a new stock. That plan was in preparation. There was indeed a draft of that. We opted for a rolling, rotating stock to avoid 22 million masks or more being destroyed at some point, because they have fallen. And yes, we were indeed not ready the moment the corona virus reached us. That cannot be explained. I can't rewind the time to make another decision. It won't take long. Could that stock have saved us during the whole corona crisis? I don't think so. Countries such as Finland, which had a huge strategic stock, have also become in need of masks, precisely because market mechanisms have been completely disrupted since January. Belgium too, like all other countries, has to look for masks all over the world. Mr De Backer has already given a detailed report on the way in which he has ordered, received and distributed millions of masks through his task force. Every hospital got masks. Every general practitioner's practice, every health care provider's been dealt with by us. This also applies to institutions within the competence of fellow ministers in the Länder, such as housing centres and institutions for people with disabilities. You are forgetting that the virus has spread all over the world and that the market has been disturbed all over the world, not only for mouth masks, but also for everything that should be used in a hospital to treat such a patient. Thanks to the larger scale of orders we have now distributed more than a few hundred million mouth masks and you will always come back, perhaps rightly, on something we cannot change. We can change the future, but not the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u53	Minister De Block, you have not answered any of my questions and have repeated your generalities – as you have been doing for eight to twelve weeks. It's really amazing! You claimed it was because of the money, the $100 million, that you didn't renew the stock. You do not answer this question, nor did you give the reason for the absence of a plan. You denied it. That alone, ladies and gentlemen, requires a committee of inquiry! We need ministers who answer the questions asked of them and who are not content with generalities. I ask you the question, minister, in both languages. You really don't think you should resign as a minister after such blunders? Do you not think that with such mistakes, it would be appropriate to resign as minister, Minister De Block? You keep going. You denied here the importance of strategic stock. The importance of strategic stock! In Finland, they also had one, and that did not solve anything. Can you hear me, ladies and gentlemen? This strategic stock debate is downplayed by the minister here in detail. While everyone knows very well that at the beginning of the crisis, we would have needed this for our healthcare staff. You continue to deny your responsibilities on this strategic stock. And don't look at Mr. De Backer, it's not his fault! It was you who were competent at that time on this file. You should draw the conclusions, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u54	Madam Minister, it would be forgotten, but Corona has not made all the other problems disappear, unfortunately not this problem either. I have a specific question for you. Each year you will publish a KB with the quotas for the graduation year of the medical students who must now start their training. Normally this happens in March or April, very exceptionally sometimes in May. That KB is, of course, necessary, otherwise one cannot install an entrance exam with legal certainty. What is stopping you from setting quotas for 2026 this year? Don't come off with the corona crisis, because the Planning Committee has been delivering its opinion for over a year now. I would like a clear answer on what is the reason for this. In the meantime, universities are getting into more or less trouble with the organization and are aware of prospective students who may be even worse, not whether they are studying for nothing for an entrance exam that may not be available in August. You have communicated about something else, Madam Minister, as always at a very well-elected time. This time that was at the beginning of the corona crisis. Then you sent out a press release that you will give all students a RIZIV number again this year and you will have them graduate without further work with your French-speaking colleague Marcourt. You're talking about 1,695 students in that press release. Where did that figure come from? I know there will be a lot more in Flanders this year, but that is also necessary, because we still have some catching up to do. I know, however, that there will also be a lot more in French-speaking Belgium than that figure, so I wonder if you will keep your leg stiff for the first time. Is it your intention to say this time that a good filter and an entrance exam have not been met and will therefore be punished? What exactly is the point? Are you just kidding us? Please provide a good explanation of the non-publication of the two mentioned royal decrees at a time when they should have been published long ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u55	Mr President, Mrs van Peel, I did think that you had forgotten and that you were working on other matters, because I hadn't heard from you in so long, even in committee, but you are here and you asked your question. We have indeed taken the decision to issue the supplementary certificates for this year. Normally, the decision to set quotas should also be submitted to the government. Questions are rightly asked when the additional certificates are issued. These are people who are now graduating and who we can use in hospitals over the next few months and years. It has been chosen to deliver these additional certificates so that these doctors can start their internships in hospitals or in general practitioners in July, as we can indeed use everyone on the ground. The Royal Decree was published and estimates indicate that there are 224 additional certificates for the Flemish Community and 241 for the French Community. As far as quotas are concerned, this must be done at the time of full medical training, i.e. before the beginning of the academic year. The government will decide on this in the next few days or weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u56	Madam Secretary, I did expect you to use corona here. I find that very intellectually unfair. You are well aware that this will not solve the problem of the surplus on the French-speaking side. You're talking about a royal decision that would already be there. That has not yet been published. I don't hear anything about the quota for 2026. What I hear blowing in the corridors is that you are currently a little under the curate of your French colleagues in this file and that there is not even a chance of a royal decision. If that were true, if we could have done everything we wanted to do for 20 years along one side of the language border and now, at the end of the day, we are legally undermining Flanders' entrance exams, then you will hear me ask a lot of questions here. While you continue to argue for the re-federalisation of health care, which I really do not understand, this dossier is, above all, Belgium at its best. French-speaking Belgium does its will, you let them do it, the Fleming pays the bill and you still have no assurance that this will change in the future. I hope you will finally show some courage in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u57	Minister, this morning you announced in the press the recognition of nursing and nursing jobs as difficult jobs. You said that "their profession will soon be recognized as painful." You thus put on the table the dossier of the painful professions which you have repeatedly announced, promised, postponed and on which the acts have never followed. It's been going on for five years. The VOCID-19 has gone through this and you discover today, like many other policies, that caregivers are investing without counting, that they have a particularly important workload, that they are dedicated... Let me tell you that it has always been, and well before the VOCID-19, that caregivers, nurses, caregivers are dedicating themselves and investing themselves without counting. I want us to look at the credibility of your announcement this morning. You're the Minister of Pensions, and you're referring to a bill from the MR, which I have in front of me. Let us accept that this proposal is being voted on, and nurses and caregivers would still not be recognized as hard jobs. Indeed, in this bill there is no list of painful occupations: there is no agreement on the famous list that had been agreed on in the public sector in May 2018. This bill refers to a royal order to be made by the government that would determine the list. Normally, as a minister, you're in control. Do you have the government's agreement? Is the first word of this royal decree already written? Is the list of arduous occupations established? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u58	Minister, the pandemic that we have been experiencing for several months has highlighted certain sectors that have been referred to as "crucials" or "essentials". Among these, I will mention one in particular: the profession of nurse. For months, these men and women have demonstrated how essential their role is to our society. Beyond this, everyone has realized their working conditions, the physical constraints of their profession, and the risks they take daily for our health and safety. We applauded them every night at 8:00 p.m. to thank them for taking care of us by risking their lives. Minister, it seems that today we can no longer simply stay on the balcony to applaud them; we must take concrete initiatives for all these people. It is not to you that I must recall what the previous government has undertaken to recognize the painful duties: the bill to recognize the arduous trades - including that of nurse - was ready. For the public sector, two out of three unions had expressed their agreement, with the exception of the socialist union. For the private sector, no agreement could be reached. The result is that we are still at a standstill. Today, Minister, the whole profession has its eyes on us. I say 'all', because not only the nurses in the public sector, but also those in the private sector are waiting for us to give them a concrete answer with regard to their painful function. They're right. Minister, can you tell us whether the discussions are under way or whether they have resumed in order to achieve the recognition of these difficult jobs? Can we finally move forward on this path?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u59	Mrs Fonck, Mr Bihet, thank you for your questions, which allow me to take stock of this issue. I have always considered that, in the appeal of the profession of nurse, nurse and caregiver, there is of course the whole training component, the whole part of the organization of work, baraemic organization, remuneration but there is also, at the end of the race, the organization of career ends. The health crisis that we have experienced clearly confirms the need to continue the work undertaken in the field of the career ends of the healthcare staff. I therefore received a letter dated 7 June from the National Federation of Nurses of Belgium (FNIB). The Federation and the professional associations partners ask me to consider the profession of nurse as an arduous profession according to the criteria set by the National Pension Committee. I'm not gonna call them back. These are four main criteria. As you know, in the previous Parliament, I drafted a bill that allowed all employed, self-employed and public servants who had a difficult job, either to anticipate their retirement or to pursue their professional activity and in this case to benefit from a higher pension. This bill was approved, as I recall, on May 23, 2018, by two of the three trade union organizations on Committee A. At the same Committee, a list of difficult trades was presented on which the trade unions could agree. This list includes nurses and caregivers in hospitals, care centres and other government-recognized institutions, who are recognized as having a high level of penitibility to increase the career taken into account in opening up the right to early retirement by 15 per cent. The health crisis that we are going through more than ever confirms the need to recognize this tenacity of nursing and nursing personnel in pension regulations. However, it is essential to move towards recognition of penitibility in a way that is similar in all three schemes – civil servant, employee, independent. This concern is all the more important given the precise distribution of nurses across the three sectors. Unfortunately, for the private sector, the social partners did not manage to reach agreement on a list of difficult functions until the government entered into its day-to-day business in December 2018. As I indicated in my response to the FNIB, I hope that this reform, which is at an already very advanced stage, can be pursued by the next full-fledged government, and that an agreement will be reached quickly between the social partners in the private sector. This is an important reform that is the result of lengthy negotiations and has several components that cannot be dissociated. The finalisation of such a reform must ideally be ensured by the next government. In view of the agreement reached in Committee A, however, the project could, as soon as the new government was in place, be adopted for the public sector, with an extension of recognition for similar functions in the private sector. It was also a recommendation of the social conciliators, Messrs. of Callataÿ and Soete, who had been appointed to bring together the views of the social partners in the private sector. This would, as I would like, make it possible for healthcare staff, regardless of their status, to benefit from the provisions enabling them to anticipate their retirement or to receive a higher pension. I believe that it is entirely legitimate today to express in concrete terms both recognition and appreciation of the reality of the work of the health care staff, thus contributing to the attractiveness of the nursing profession and the professions of all health care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u60	Minister, as far as attractiveness is concerned, I am delighted with the proposals that both have here. They've been joining the fights I've been waging with others for years. When the nurses and the paramedics looked at the gazette this morning, they said, "Okay, that's it! It's done! It is enough to vote a text in Parliament." But what your text does not contain, even if it was voted on, is the list of difficult jobs. With this text, which you say will be voted on and it will make things right, nurses and caregivers still have no recognition of the difficult jobs. On the other hand, what is contained in this bill, Minister, is the removal of all the tantheme preferences in the public sector: teachers, the military, the police, the fire department and many others. Do you know what's going on, minister? You still don't have the slightest word of the royal decree that will define the legal basis of the list. I see the other parties in your government: they all have their noses in their office. You clearly don't have a government agreement. I'm disappointed about the nurses. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is necessary to take full account of the urgency of the issue of recognition of the tenability of trades. I remember two things from your speech. Firstly, the extension to similar functions of the private sector in the agreement reached with two of the three trade unions for the public sector. Secondly, the upgrading of the nursing profession through an improvement in its attractiveness to fill the glaring gaps that have been highlighted by this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u62	Mr Minister, last week it became known that the Belgian Competition Authority started an investigation in January into possible illegal market practices, such as price fixing and the sharing of the growing market among the security companies sector. The companies mentioned were Seris, Securitas and G4S. The government is involved in two ways, firstly as a customer of those companies and secondly through the figure of the CEO of bpost. Indeed, since the attacks in 2016, public authorities have been using security firms more and more and in 2017 the possibilities for the security companies have been extended with additional tasks taken over from the police and the army. Even the operation of an asylum centre is now entrusted to security firms. Governments are, in other words, important customers of the sector, and if there are price agreements, I speak in a conditional manner, then the government will have to stand on its feet, because that would be at the expense of Community resources. Secondly, there is of course also the impact on the public sector bpost, because the CEO used to be the director of G4S for Belgium and Luxembourg. Surely we can assume that the CEO of a public body is an undisputed conduct. This will undoubtedly have been a condition for his appointment. Until further notice, of course, there is no reason to ask questions, although it is not very reassuring that you have only been informed this week of an investigation that has been going on for months. Minister, has the matter already been discussed by the board of directors of bpost? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u63	Mr Van den Bergh, thank you for the questions. Indeed, I was not informed of the Belgian Competition Authority's investigation until Tuesday morning. I should first like to say that it is neither for me nor for the government, but for the board of directors of Bpost to decide on the appointment or dismissal of the CEO. The matter was discussed yesterday morning at the Governing Board meeting. At present there is only an investigation by the competition authority. No further information is therefore available. There's been a conversation with the CEO that clearly shows that the investigation is still ongoing. The investigation will be awaited. The Management Board has not yet taken a decision on Mr Van Avermaet's position. Consequently, the contract cannot be terminated at an early date, if one wishes to do so. On the contrary, I believe that the presumption of innocence must continue in a rule of law, just like the secret of the investigation, which meant that I could not be aware of what the Belgian Competition Authority is doing. The contract can, of course, always be broken if there is an effective problem. If the competition authority or a court decides that Mr Van Avermaet has committed an infringement, he may be liable for any pre-contractual liability, in which case there would be no breach compensation due and could therefore be taken action. I await the further investigation in all transparency before I discuss it further, as will the Governing Board, which will have to take the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Of course, there is not much you can say, which makes sense given the state of the investigation. What you have not addressed is the interest of the various authorities in our country that are customers of the security companies and are involved, possibly as victims when it appears that price agreements have been effectively made. As far as Mr Van Avermaet is concerned, it is important to know when the competition authority informed him that the investigation also concerned him. It can be expected that a CEO will at this time inform his supervisory minister and his board of directors that he is involved. He was appointed by the government in January and the investigation has been going on since then. I do not want to link both facts with each other, we have to wait for the investigation, but openness and transparency are now very important in order to maintain confidence in the CEO. Until further notice, we must do so. As a Parliament, we must not condemn anyone. We need other bodies to do that, and we have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u65	That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u66	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 June 2020, you have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 June 2020, you received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u67	The document bearing the name of the candidate was distributed to you. (1232/1) The document with the candidate's name has been distributed. (1232/1) You received by mail a ballot containing the name of the Dutch-speaking candidate. You received a ballot by post with the name of the Dutch-speaking candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u68	Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. The blank envelopes containing the ballot, which were sent to the House, were slipped into a ballot box. The blank letter covers with the ballots that were sent to the Chamber were put into an urn. The two youngest members present, Mélissa Hanus and Kristof Calvo, are invited to attend the counting of the ballot. The two youngest members present, Mélissa Hanus and Kristof Calvo, are invited to attend the recording of the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mrs Verhaert, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u70	Mr President, I think it would be useful to say a few words about this draft law, which confirms some of the positive changes made by a royal decree. We are, of course, fully in favour of this. I am thinking of the catch-up ban for trucks for which the regulation was amended last year by a royal decree. There used to be a general catch-up ban on 2x2 roads unless the traffic signs indicated otherwise. Since September 1st it is allowed to catch up unless a sign forbids it. This is an important change because it will give our country the same rules as neighbouring countries. I believe that this is not insignificant for a transit country like ours, with a lot of foreign freight traffic. I would like to repeat the point I made in committee against the Minister. Because many changes have already been made to the Road Code, either through royal decrees or through legislative proposals, the logic of the classification of the offences by degree is a bit unclear and not always clear. The Minister has confirmed that this needs to be addressed and that the adaptation of the new Road Code could give rise to this. We therefore hope that the next government will be able to do this quickly, because we urgently need to get rid of this illogical classification in the interests of road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u71	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u72	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1186/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1186/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporter is colleague Van den Bergh, who refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u75	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1258/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1258/3) The bill has 21 clauses. The draft law has 21 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u77	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 196: Mélissa Hanus, Laurence Zanchetta, Jean-Marc Delizée, Sophie Thémont, Malik Ben Achour, Daniel Senesael, Joris Vandenbroucke - 788: Kim Buyst, Sarah Schlitz, Evita Willaert, Cécile Thibaut, Tinne Van der Straeten, Georges Gilkinet, Dieter Vanbesien, Julie Song, Kristof Calvo, Marie-Colline Leroy - 936: Jef Van den Bergh, Hendrik Bogaert, Steven Matheï, Nawal Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u78	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (196/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (196/6) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to support international rail passenger transport at European level". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on support for international passenger rail transport at European level." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Verhaert, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 January it seems like an eternity ago I travelled on the first night train from Brussels to Vienna for seventeen years. The ÖBB, the Österreichische Bundesbahnen, made a trip down memory lane, because so many years ago I also regularly took the train to travel abroad. One chunk of nostalgia. The first time I was eighteen years old, then I tracked friends from Brussels to Marseille. In the late '90s, I took a night train, more specifically to Venice. During this period night trains began to disappear in Europe. SNCB stopped with all its night trains in 2003. Since then, times have changed. The last decade has been the warmest worldwide since the beginning of the measurements. During the same decade, the night train, the most climate-friendly option, was completed everywhere. Even more, the aviation sector took a high flight during that period. Even for distances for which the train makes more sense, we take the plane today. However, Belgium, as a member of the European Union, signed the Paris Agreement in 2015. According to that agreement, 195 countries are committed to limiting global average temperature increases to well below 2 degrees. In order to achieve this objective, there must be an immediate and long-term shift in all sectors of society and the economy. One of these sectors is the transport sector. Since 1990, emissions from the transport sector in the European Union have increased by 25%. Even more, that share is likely to increase, unless the necessary measures are taken. If we want to make a difference in terms of transport, then rail also plays a central role in cross-border movements as an energy-efficient and environmentally friendly mode of transport. The railways are at the centre of an ecological change in transport. No other means of transport can move people in a similar energy-efficient, safe and space-saving way. That is why, together with our group, we had written a motion for a resolution on the rapid expansion of international passenger transport. The colleagues of the PS, sp.a and CD&V also saw this need and had submitted a similar text. Through constructive cooperation at the committee meeting of 3 March 2020, I believe that we came to a strong, balanced and supported proposal of resolution, a plan of action with a number of important points of attention for the future of international rail traffic. Investment in infrastructure for cross-border connections is essential to create an integrated rail network and really challenge aviation as a means of transport for both short and medium distances. Too often rail travel is treated as a purely national matter, making aviation and road transport the most obvious choice for cross-border traffic. The European level is therefore essential to finance important cross-border projects primarily, as well as to formulate concrete and binding objectives and to develop effective instruments. On a proposal from the European Commission 2021 shall be the year of the train, the year of the train. As an Ecolo-Green Group, we think it is a strong signal that the Member States want to join forces to provide more international passenger transport. In order to make this choice even more attractive, it is necessary to simplify the choice process for trains and other means of transport. That is why, in this plan of approach, we also advocate the creation of at least a multilingual travel planner and ticket site, which gives the traveller neutral and multimodal travel information from door to door. By 2030, we want Europe to organise an international rail network that integrates all the capitals of the European Union and other major cities and agglomerations. For this, the night train offers some unbeatable advantages. Not only is it a sustainable way of traveling. One can also travel sleeping without losing time. One arrives at the destination equipped and also saves on accommodation costs. In addition to a number of important environmental benefits, climate-related transport policies also have a major economic importance. In June 2019, the Commission published a study that estimates that the external costs for transport in the EU amount to €1,000 billion per year. The same study also concluded that only part of that amount is passed on through taxes and levies. That is why we call on the next federal government in the European Union to call for external costs to be included in the price through, for example, a European kerosene tax. Fares can not only generate new sources of income, but also reward companies for making their sustainable choices. In short, it is clear that there are sufficient reasons for a future government to ensure a real revival of international rail transport. That is why our group fully supports the plan. I only need to thank the committee members for their excellent cooperation in the Committee on Mobility. Take it from me: 3 March 2020 was a beautiful day for me in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on night trains under consideration immediately received the support of my colleague from the Sp.a. Joris Vandenbroucke, also particularly sensitive to the development of our railway. Subsequently, this text also received the support of other parties that came to feed our reflections. The redeployment of night trains has an important symbolic value not only for our society, but also for my personal history. Since I became a candidate in the elections, I have always carried out high and strong values that make sense to mobility and the environment. As some of you may already know, I never had a chance to travel when I was a kid because I came from a family of nine children. Together, we learned to stick together. On my first trip, I was already 17. In front of you today, I have the firm conviction to put my stone in the building to allow every citizen of Belgium to travel more easily, while respecting the environment. Encouraging the return of night trains means reconciling mobility and the fight against global warming. Colleagues, this return is expected by our fellow citizens. Those interested in night trains know that it is not the natural evolution of things that brought these continental lines to an end, but that it is the consequence of several choices. The first choice was that of the national operators who decided to bet everything on the high-speed train for long journeys. Almost twenty years later, it is known that this choice was unfortunate; on the one hand, because the high-speed train and the night train are not opposed, but rather complementary, whether in terms of the destination or the audiences to which they are directed, and, on the other hand, because there was no transfer of users from night trains to high-speed trains, while the sleeping trains were still busy and profitable when they disappeared. The second choice was political. It has thus been decided to promote the development of low air cost at all costs with the fiscal, environmental and social consequences that we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u81	As a result, the night train has almost disappeared for several years from European rail networks, certainly from the western side of the continent. But the acceleration of global warming has revived a citizen's interest in this sustainable means of displacement. Since the Scandinavian countries and, above all, Austria, more recently, an offer is developing that responds to a demand that has, in reality, never disappeared. Because, beyond the environmental gesture, travellers understand the advantages of the sleeper train. No more departures and arrivals two hours in advance at an airport far away from the cities! And while saving a hotel night, the stay starts in the morning in the center of Vienna, Berlin, Venice today and why not Madrid, Prague, Lisbon tomorrow. That's all we can hope for. Offers are expanding. Since I tabled this proposal, a line has opened between Brussels and Vienna. Today, the Swedish government wants to launch a line between Malmö and Brussels. And, while we welcome these initiatives, there is certainly no question of contenting ourselves with them. Let's be clear! We can only be satisfied when the train journey is a real and accessible option to travel to each of the capitals of the major European cities. When we know that a Brussels-Berlin route by plane is twelve times more carbon emitter than it is by train, it is time for policy to take over and support current and, above all, future initiatives on sustainable travel. Whether at Belgian or European level. We can no longer stand by in the face of distorted competition from the air sector. Citizens cannot be called upon to be responsible if we do not adopt a proactive policy. Today, the resolution we are about to vote on is not just a vague principle of preference for rail. Thanks to the work in committee, to the amendments which have completed the original text, the eleven requests in this text offer a precise framework, both at Belgian and European level, for financing, the process to be followed to identify destinations or the accessibility of users. The proposal is both clear and concrete. I thank colleagues once again for their support and, above all, for their constructive contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, the revival of our economy must be both ambitious and built on a sustainable basis. The granting of a Rail Pass to all Belgian residents, decided last week, is part of this process. We call for a similar initiative at European level for all people who reach the age of 18. For my group, a fair transition to sustainable mobility is not to ban travel but to ensure that everyone has access to sustainable transportation to travel our continent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u82	Mr President, a motion for a resolution on European support for international rail passenger transport, a motion for a resolution on the rapid development of European international rail passenger transport and a proposal for a resolution on the substitution of air transport by rail transport: these were, depending on the names of the applicants, the various titles of the proposals that were finally incorporated in our committee into the final proposal for a resolution, which today is entitled 'Proposal for a resolution on the support for international passenger transport at European level'. Allow me to use the title which I think is best suited to the content of the motion for a resolution before us. I am voting in favour of the title 'Proposal for a resolution on the replacement of air transport with rail transport', because that is what this is about. It's about realizing a green dream: away with the polluting, naughty planes and live the cozy train. The content of the proposal certainly contains elements for which there is something to be said. A train is of course less polluting than a plane. You won't hear me fight that. We are also in favour of promoting the best possible interests of our environment. The idea that a well-coordinated rail network is needed in Europe, technically, cost-effectively, plannedly, in terms of connections and so on, is quite okay. There is also something to say that there might even be unfair competition between rail and other modes of transport, but there is certainly something to be said about it. However, I am free to express some reservations, including on the screens with the numerous citizens' initiatives across Europe in favour of restarting night trains. Among other things, reference is made to the organisation Back on Track, which advocates more environmentally friendly alternatives to the aircraft. I have looked at that organisation's website and I am almost going to think that the motion for a resolution comes from her hand. It could have been written by that organization. There can be many initiatives. However, the question is how wide these proposals are ultimately supported by the consumer, the passenger. Is that that wide? I'm not so sure about that yet. There used to be a network of night trains. And yes, I also took the night train from the CM to Maloja, I enjoyed that very much. I wasn't into politics at the time, which is why I was still at the CM. What I do remember is that that trip took a long time. I thought it would take a long time, despite the fact that that train didn't drive slow after all, it drove pretty fast. However, the use of the night trains later, including after the arrival of the high-speed trains, after the further development of the air traffic and for other reasons, has deteriorated. Even in the end, they're completely gone. There are many reasons for this, but I think two elements are very important for a traveller: comfort and, above all, speed. Air traffic has developed very quickly and, apart from the whole coronage situation at the moment, still has a considerable margin of potential. The fact that an aircraft is more polluting than a train is correct. But in any case, the reality is that an aircraft is faster than a train and that it brings a passenger comfortably from point a to point b in no time, and that very often also to perhaps not for everyone, but still for a lot of people affordable prices. I am not saying that this argument is blissful or condoning everything, but this situation is reality. That's not unimportant. I understand that the proposers of this proposal to get their case sold, so to speak, not only advocate the use of the night train, but also specifically target the aviation sector with this motion for a resolution. For example, within the EU, there is a call for a policy that provides financial support for the development and accessibility of international rail transport. The financial support for rail transport consists of the introduction of kerosene charges for aviation. The aim is also to launch an investigation into the possibilities of substitution of air transport by rail transport, which is fairly open and clear for short-distance travel in our country, with a profile of passengers travelling from our country to a short-distance airport. As far as unfair competition is concerned, in my view, the game is sometimes played a bit strangely. On the one hand, some of the unfair and possibly artificial competition that the aviation sector would enjoy is being complained of. On the other hand, this proposal takes back how else can it be if it is a proposal from the left, socialist or green to the old classic of handing out so-called free tickets? This is Interrail Passes for all 18-year-olds from across the EU. Perhaps Minister Bellot can start a tender for its distribution. I come to the essence of my speech. Environmental development and/or the pursuit of uniformity of rail transport within the EU is quite okay, but not the way. The aviation sector is under attack at a time when this sector is facing an unprecedented crisis due to COOVID-19, when thousands of jobs are being lost there, when thousands of jobs are at stake and people do not know whether they will soon be able to pay off their loans and their accounts. Just now we are in favour of adopting a resolution which advocates the introduction of kerosene charges and which calls for the substitution of the squatting of air traffic by the unexpanded rail transport sector. It almost seems as if our national airport in Zaventem is not under enough fire after the many Brussels green bullyings on noise fines. In particular, I am looking at our colleagues in the PVDA-PTB in this resolution. The PVDA, whose group leader came here a week ago with his usual theatre expressing his indignation at the massive redundancies of Swissport Belgium and Swissport Belgium Cleaning employees. I am also looking at Mrs Vindevoghel, active in the airport in a previous life, who always calls with the necessary decibels that saving jobs in the aviation sector should be a priority. I see her nodding to my great satisfaction. Mrs Vindevoghel and the PVDA have approved this motion for a resolution, the substitution of air transport by rail, including the introduction of kerosene charges for airlines, in committee. I hope that the redundant workers and the redundant workers in the aviation sector and by-sectors, perhaps ex-colleagues of Mrs Vindevoghel, will bear in mind that when there is another bad news and the PVDA comes to express its sympathy, that party has approved this here. I call this a dance at the grave of the redundant workers in the aviation sector. Flemish Interest doesn't go along with that. We are fully on the side of those many workers threatened in their jobs in the troubled aviation sector rather than perhaps pursuing noble but currently inappropriate green dreams. That is why we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u83	Mr. Toventors, I'm replicating because you're addressing me personally. The PVDA-PTB Group itself has a proposal in which we want a sustainable, social and environmental solution for both the airport and at the same time a solution for a good, comprehensive rail transport. There is no contradiction between the two. Air traffic is also necessary for long distances, but for shorter distances we know that the development of much more rail transport is a good thing for the environment, but also for the people. You must not make any contradictions here where there are no contradictions. I come to the airport every day to defend the interests of the workers and we have a very good solution for the airport, which you may not support either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u84	Mrs Vindevoghel, I would like to point out that the import of a kerosene tax is ultimately simply passed on. The citizen will eventually pay for this. Also short-haul flights depend on a lot of jobs. The adoption of this proposal will have an enormous consequence. I just want to point that out. Eventually, the ordinary workers will suffer, no matter how they look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have pointed out in committee, our group agrees with the main purpose of the proposal, which is to concentrate more on the creation of an international train network, whether it is night or not. However, like the amendments we have tabled, we believe that there should be much more support than just financial support or a reduction in the price of the furrows – which is already low during the night – as this resolution calls for. This point of the resolution is, moreover, cruelly lacking in scope by focusing only on the financial aspect. Instead, the role of the Union and the Member States should address the obstacles to the development of international rail transport in each Member State and promote this type of approach, e.g. TGV, Eurostar or other investments. If we consider it necessary to review the policy of taxation on kerosene at European level, we also believe that this should be done at international level by amending the Chicago Convention. However, linking the principle of railway development to a levy on another sector is problematic. Moreover, in the end, this amounts to supporting a sector through a tax which does not yet exist and which is previously decided to allocate. This may be a question, even if it was just an example. As has been pointed out, this is an example that hurts. This motion for a resolution is still wrong today with the crisis we are experiencing and while we are trying to save jobs in the air sector. Once the aircraft is taxed, this type of reasoning will then work to tax road or sea transport more. This will be a worrying precedent for our people. The resolution also calls for a call for the generalisation of the DiscoverEU initiative. We tabled an amendment in committee to delete this request. I believe that the N-VA is resubmitting an amendment to that effect, and we will support it. We stress on this point that once the EU budget has been approved by the European Parliament and the Council, no less than 1.5 million young people under the age of 18 could benefit from this initiative between 2021 and 2027. A generalisation is therefore not yet timely but could be considered according to the results obtained for the period 2021-2027. This demand for generalization is particularly populist in the current economic context. Although we agree with the main objective, our group wants to be mixed in terms of the real impact of this resolution. We will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Buyst has already referred to it. Since three months our country has had another night train to Austria, which is an important event and an important turnaround after the years of international night train connections. However, what we see in the night train operation is that it is difficult and very difficult and remains difficult to establish international train connections in a commercially interesting way, especially compared to air transport. Rail transport is organized mainly within national borders today, while air transport, with the exception of air transport, is dealt with at international level. Let me give you some examples. For starters, trains obviously have to run on tracks. The construction and maintenance of these tracks costs a lot of money. Every train that runs across the tracks must pay for its use. This is not only the case in our country, but also in other countries that cross the train. Each country has its own system and price for collecting the usage fee. It's not uniform. Moreover, the safety systems that each train must have on board are still different. We are evolving towards a European standard. Our country is a pioneer in that. Each country still has its own rules for the time being. Each train must be authorised by national security services to operate on tracks. That consent is expensive and time-consuming. Every train driver needs training for every country and every train coach also needs training for every country. Train drivers often still need to be changed on the way. In addition, train tickets and energy costs are subject to VAT. This means that there is, of course, a competitive disadvantage for rail compared to air transport. In the case of air transport, kerosene is exempt from taxes, no VAT is to be paid on tickets and no trace is to be made. In this sense, the contrast between aviation and railways, which is being raised here, needs to be somewhat related. The efforts for rail transport, which we want to see, will be much needed to get more people on the track and to make more people travel by rail, which is also a growing demand. This is more necessary than the cannibalisation of air transport. That contradiction does not need to be beaten up. I have already mentioned the difficulties faced by train companies when they want to deploy international trains, but there are also many difficulties for travellers today when they want to use international trains. Let me give you an example. If you want to plan a train journey, you cannot do it with just one route planner. There must be a long way to go before you get the right information and the right tickets. If the train is delayed and a switch is missing, for example in the faraway Czech Republic, then a whole administrative mill must be completed to be reimbursed for its new train ticket and it is not even certain that it will be reimbursed. Moreover, passenger rights are not yet as solid as those for air travel, also a focus on the European level. If you stranded at an airport for a few hours on the way, there are the necessary amenities in terms of comfort, there is good Wi-Fi and so on, while many train stations in that area still leave a bit to be desired. There are also many steps ahead for the traveller before he can be tempted to take the train for his journey. That makes a plane ticket for a lot of travelers more interesting. We should not condemn them for that either; it is a choice that everyone must make for themselves. A Dutch study on the substitution of air to rail transport shows the advantages of the train. The research shows that a large-scale shift from the plane to the train in Europe can reduce CO2 emissions by 8,35 million tonnes each year. That is one tenth of the total emissions of air travel by Europeans, or the total annual emissions of nearly 420,000 Flemings. It's about decent amounts. If we can seduce some of the passengers to take the train, I think we can make a good contribution to reducing CO2 emissions, which remains an important challenge. But then there must be a good international offer, which is also the intention of this resolution. We must indeed focus on short-haul flights. We think it is right to do research on this, for example, to get a good view on which short-haul flights are mostly inbound to and from our country, who the passengers are and why they are taking the plane and whether a train could offer an alternative. So mapping the challenges is an important first step. Moreover, it is important that Brussels Airport is also better connected to the international train network. Today there is only 1 international train that stops under Brussels Airport, especially the train between Amsterdam and Brussels. Of course, this is not enough to have a good interaction between rail and air transport, a combination on which Air France, for example, has been trying to use for years. They are also forced to do so through the rescue plan drawn up by the French government for Air France. It says that short-haul flights should increasingly be exchanged for train movements. A third element to which we pay attention in this resolution is the need for a common vision of the government and the aviation and rail sector in order to be able to convert short-haul flights into international train journeys. A common vision with a plan is also needed in Europe. I just pointed out the obstacles that train companies face in laying international trains. We need a stronger Europe if we are to achieve a single European rail market. The Dutch Government recently offered the European Commission a position paper aimed at raising international rail passenger transport to the European agenda. After all, the Netherlands felt that the current ambition for international rail transport in the European Green Deal was not enough. It would be good if our country could give the same signal to get more passengers on international rail transport. Mr President, we can conclude that international rail transport must have wings. This requires initiatives on a number of fronts, and our country, too, must take action in this area, both here and at European level. With this resolution, we want to push that process in the back. We have discussed it for quite a long time in committee in a constructive debate. I would like to thank my fellow Members for this and hope that we will be able to adopt this resolution with great agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u87	To allow everyone to organize their evening, I would like to point out that there are still three speakers on this project and that there are still six more items on the agenda with a total of 47 speakers planned. That makes it possible to see coming...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u88	Mr President, our group will support this motion for a resolution. Perhaps it would be a good idea to ask ourselves why we should come to a resolution. International rail and night transport have been greatly reduced over the last ten years, which, of course, has a lot to do with the privatisation of rail transport. One of the reasons is the division of the railway companies, with the important result being the introduction of paying lanes. Unfair competition and the ageing of the rolling stock are also causes. Additional investment and uniform legislation are therefore crucial to promoting international rail traffic. We may ask ourselves whether the liberalisation of rail traffic might have caused the fall in international rail traffic, in addition to the many savings measures and an increase in ticket prices. Moreover, within the European framework, the Member States still have sufficient opportunities to combat this liberalisation. Today, no private company wishes to set up a train connection in Belgium. Recently, in April, FlixTrain was the last candidate to put away its plans to exploit the Brussels-Paris rail link. This proves that we should not wait for private initiatives, but should go in full for the public business. Mr President, I am a little confused. The next page of my statement is missing. I suggest that you give the floor first to a colleague and that you give me the floor again later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u89	I suggest that you give the floor to Mr Vandenbroucke, as long as you put your papers in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u90	I support Mrs Hanus' glowing plea and the other initiators of the resolutions we discussed in the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. The resolution has already been explained in great detail. I will not add much more, but I would like to point out a pertinent contradiction in the resolution. This contradiction makes the resolution so relevant. It is no longer possible to explain that the train is still struggling with a competitive handicap vis-à-vis aviation at the time when so many climate agreements have already been signed, when it is established and when no one is in doubt that the train is the most energy efficient and least polluting means of transport for short and medium distances. At the same time, aviation's CO2 emissions are still rising spectacularly. People who want to take the international train and book a slightly more complicated journey than Brussels-Paris experience a kind of agony that some call the romance of slow travel. It is downright annoying and retarded that this is still organised in this way. It is not normal for people from the province of Luxembourg, Limburg or West Flanders to take longer to get to Brussels by train than to travel from Brussels to Paris, while from Brussels airplanes still take off several times a day to Paris? It is completely insane that there is still flown from Brussels to Paris, London, Amsterdam and so on. Those who regard this as a sort of anti-aviation resolution have certainly not understood it properly, Mr Tusters. Do you know why 1,500 people were put out on the street last week? Because there is a race to the bottom in aviation, including on those short distances, where airlines compete with each other. In exchange for these cheap tickets, people have to do heavy work for scandalously low wages and little protection. That's gotta stop. There's nothing antisocial about calling off that race to the bottom. Aviation is an essential link in our economy, but it destroys itself with that business model that is not sustainable and certainly not for employees. I would like to take you to two years ago when, as opposition leader in the Flemish Parliament, I tabled a resolution banning Flemish cabintards, ministers and officials from taking a plane even longer to destinations less than 500 kilometres or destinations that can be reached by land in an alternative way in less than six hours. That resolution, which makes it impossible to fly any longer to Frankfurt, Lyon and Cologne, was adopted unanimously, including by your party. The reason why I tabled that resolution at the time was because it is completely insane that, at the time we expect great climate efforts from citizens, government officials take the plane to destinations that are perfectly accessible by train. Let's stop that. This resolution goes a lot further and tries to make that even more possible for more people. Our country was historically a pioneer on the trail. Our country is in the centre of Europe. Few countries are literally or figuratively so connected to Europe as Belgium. I hope we can take that lead back. I hope that this resolution can also be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u91	Mr Vandenbroucke, I do not know what you have been listening to. I have said that I understand a lot of things that are on the table here. I have just made it clear that now is not the time to give the aviation sector, which is almost flat on the ground, another kick. You've done a very good analysis. Yes, there are other needs, including in Flanders. Look at the opening to the east, to the Netherlands, to the German hinterland. These are all economically important connections that are not there. There's a lot we can do for the environment. I am thinking, for example, of the transfer of goods to rail transport. You did a lot of explaining, but what I do not understand is that last week you expressed your sympathy and concern for the redundant workers in the aviation sector in order to pay them a kerosene tax a week later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u92	Mr Toventos, I find it incomprehensible why you mix these two things together. I'm on the premises every day in front of the airport. We have long-term proposals for the aviation sector, with good solutions for the people who work there, including working and wage conditions. That's what I want to say. As far as rail transport and short distances are concerned, we want to move more towards the use of the train. Ryanair, for example, now has prices of EUR 20, but that is unheard of. Ask the people who work for Ryanair, under what working conditions they do so. There are proposals on the table today, for example in Austria and the Netherlands, for a minimum ticket price of 35 to 40 euros to stop dumping. So we also want to take the path of ecologically sound solutions, and for the people at the airport we want good working conditions, not being thrown out, as is happening now. Let me give you an example: the Flemish Minister for Mobility, Lydia Peeters, took a private flight last week between Brussels and Antwerp to promote a friendly entrepreneur, a distance of 40 kilometres. While the tram line along the coast is 67 kilometers long, Lydia Peeters took a flight for a distance of 40 kilometers to promote a private jet company. That is what the liberals propose: private jets for rich people, but nothing for ordinary people. The PVDA is convinced that the government needs to invest more in public transport and especially the train. The European continent has a rich tradition of international train connections. The United Kingdom has shown that the hacking-up of the railways by privatisation of rail traffic is always turning into a failure. The division of railway undertakings in Belgium is not a solution, quite the contrary. Twenty-five years after the privatisation of the British railway, Prime Minister Johnson's liberal government is now returning to nationalisation. The British railways are to a large extent in the hands of the British government. Because the system of privatisations was stalled, it had to be reversed. The railways suffer from fragmentation, lack of coordination and outdated infrastructure, and the prices for commuters are falling apart. In a year's time, two more railway lines have been nationalised across the Channel. In Scotland, too, the government had to intervene by early termination of ScotRail's contract because of the failure of the private railway company in all areas. The best examples are those countries and regions which join forces and do not increase competition, as users in particular are the victims. The Flemish nationalists even argue for a division of SNCB into regional transport companies. But what would be the consequences of such a project? Splitting up means speeding up the privatisation of the railways, and the nationalists want to use the lever of separatism to accelerate the privatisation process. For example, the Lijn is already being privatised in the north of our country at an accelerated rate. Which we see all the consequences of. Splitting up means less security. This is evident from the various train accidents, including ours, in recent years. Splitting up means less punctuality, as the example of the British railways shows. Splitting up means different rates according to the companies, and that in the same country, with a price increase, as is the case in the United Kingdom since liberalisation. Splitting up would mean worse working conditions for the employees of the different companies, and only enter into competition. Splitting up would be the end of the unity between the railway workers and the impact force needed. Those who do not wish to divide must unite. That is why this resolution is a good step towards building a more efficient rail network across Europe. The disappearance of night trains since the early 2000s seems to be the result of various changes, both at European and national level. The liberalisation of the various sectors has clearly helped the long-distance buses and the low-cost airlines to skip the balance sheet. The liberalisation of the rail sector has clearly failed to achieve the objective set by the European Union, and has undoubtedly had a negative effect on classic long-distance trains such as international night trains. The current situation of a market which has been fully liberalised for 11 years leaves little illusions about the survival of this means of transport if no action is taken. I can tell you that, in the aviation sector, we are now seeing the consequences of liberalisation, the race to the bottom. That is what is happening now, a situation in which workers always work under worse working conditions. We are also in favour of a national airport and a national airline. That is the best solution for the aviation sector, not what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group fully supports this motion for a resolution. We can only congratulate ourselves on the fact that, today, initiatives to re-establish night trains are flourishing in all parts of Europe. You know their advantages, which are very well summarized in the text of the proposal. In this regard, we hope that the recent Brussels-Vienna link will be a success. The European Union must play its full role in the progressive development of alternatives to air transport, whose intra-European traffic has increased thanks to particularly attractive prices and low cost flights, despite their extremely polluting nature. The consequences of these flights in terms of working conditions and job security among the employees of these companies are also regrettable. Mr Vandenbroucke was right, in my view, to refer to it. It can't last any longer. It is essential to develop and support intra-European rail transport, not to tackle the air sector – the comments made in this regard are caricatural – but simply because it has become a real necessity in our common fight against global warming. The proposal contains a single request for aircraft and for a fuel tax to be drawn up at European level. The aim here is to restore fiscal and environmental justice because airlines currently do not pay VAT, or CO2 tax or tax on mineral oils, as opposed to motorists or landowners. At the tax level, air traffic is even privileged over rail traffic. However, rail passenger transport is not competitive in terms of prices. It is enough to convince yourself to compare the price of a ticket for a Brussels-Marseille flight on a low cost airline with that of a TGV ticket for the same trip. The complementarity between the current offer of TGVs and a future offer of night trains is very real. There is a real window of opportunity here to relaunch this process at European level. Our country must contribute to this for what it can offer as a perspective, not just to introduce a kerosene tax, even if such a measure is – as I said – one of the many ways that can limit intra-European air traffic that will soon be saturated. Our group therefore fully subscribes, as you will understand, to this vision of the future of rail transport. Progress in this area is still timid, of course, but there is more reason to support this motion for a resolution which, I hope, will undoubtedly play a leading role in promoting ever more sustainable mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long since my colleague, Mr Buyst, has already summed up our remarks very well. I'll only answer what I just heard. First of all, this is precisely the right time to vote on this motion for a resolution. It is ripe, since we have been working on it since the beginning of the legislature. We have organized two hearings. Mrs Buyst and I even went to Vienna to discuss with the Austrian transport company (ÖBB) how it had instilled a real forward-looking dynamic in order to put new night trains into circulation for years. In short, this text is everything but a draft and, at the time of this crisis, really falls to peak. Indeed, if we have been able to take the measures that were commensurate with the danger we face, it is therefore high time to take the measures necessary to combat the climate crisis, against the dramatic consequences that the experts have been warning us of for years, because they will be inconsequential with those we have just experienced. I am also shocked to hear that workers in the air and rail sectors are being opposed. First of all, rail transport provides many jobs. On the Brussels-Vienna line alone, railwaymen drove trains from our capital to the border. It is therefore wrong to think that this sector has no future. And then, as some colleagues have said, we have to show some decency, given the working conditions of the employees of the low cost aeronautical companies. It is, moreover, a subject on which we can work. In any case, it is truly indecent to compare these two sectors. In addition, apples and pears are compared to costs. Taking a night train to go to Vienna or another city, if you have the opportunity to develop new lines, it's leaving in the evening and arriving in the morning after a good night's sleep. It's saving a hotel night and it's happening in the heart of the city. I would add that the cheapest ticket is 39 euros. When you take a low cost flight at 35 euros, for example, because the prices are variable, you arrive outside the city, often at impossible times, late at night. You need to take a paid shuttle for a trip that sometimes takes an hour to go to sleep in your hotel or hostel. You have to have a certain honesty when comparing prices and taking into account all the parameters. On the kerosene tax, I think it is simply a matter of justice. At one point, even for the greatest defenders of the invisible hand, we have to look at things in the face and put justice between these two sectors. This is really a situation of unfair competition. This tax and environmental justice must be restored. Other countries have understood the opportunity to develop night trains. Austria, as well as Sweden, approached us to develop a new train line. Yesterday we had an interesting exchange with Minister Bellot, who told us that Belgium, along with other countries, had agreed to join the working group proposed by Sweden to consider putting this new line on the track. We also learned that a reduction in furrow costs would apply as of December 1, 2020. We welcome these announcements. This resolution goes in this direction and proposes to go even further. What is proposed through the resolution we will be voting for today is to defend a policy of financial support at European level but also to have a proactive policy at Belgian level. It is not just a matter of watching the trains pass and watching others embark on this new sector of the future without getting involved. We need to be really proactive in this area by looking at the new international routes that have potential for Belgium. And Belgium has potential. We are located in the heart of Europe. We have the opportunity to develop lines to Spain, to Italy. In fact, there are many opportunities in terms of travel and jobs. The aim is also to replace the shortest flights in kilometres; removing them is a matter of common sense. Thank you and I am delighted with all the work we have done with colleagues in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u95	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u96	Demand 3 • 15................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u97	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u98	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Joris Vandenbroucke, Jan Bertels, Hugues Bayet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Steven Mathei.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u100	I'm bringing you a synthesis of the synthesis. The draft law contained three parts. The first part concerns the exemption for future losses in personal income tax and was adopted following the rejection by nine votes to eight of an amendment by Joris Vandenbroucke and his associates to create an alternative but also a tax credit. The second part concerns the exemption to strengthen the company's own funds, which was adopted as amended. For the third part, the company reconstruction reserve, an amendment to delete the item was first rejected by nine votes to eight. The underlying articles were also rejected, with eight votes against seven and two abstentions. The draft law before us today thus contains only the first two parts. For the rest, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u101	Colleagues, when a crisis strikes, the first thing that is done is to ensure that the war chest is filled and that there is enough money in the cash to bridge a closure. Many measures have been taken in this area in the area of liquidity, thanks to Parliament, the Flemish Government and the municipalities. Today we are in a new phase. Most of the businesses are open again, but they are faced with strict security measures, which put pressure on their profit margins. For example, they have fewer customers, reducing their activity and profits. That is why new measures are needed. We are particularly pleased with the draft law before us. We will certainly support it. Entrepreneurs will be able to deduct the losses they make this year from the profits they made in 2019, which will give them some breathing space again. That is particularly important. I'd like to point out that the work isn't finished yet. The Minister will come up with new proposals to do even more in the field of taxation, and we are really looking forward to them. But we need to do more, including in other areas. I am thinking in particular of employment, because we really need to ensure that our companies can get people to work in a flexible way. Companies that are not yet able to put everyone to work must, where necessary and where possible, continue to be able to rely on the temporary unemployment system. That's what plans are on the table. Those who can employ people must be able to do so much more smoothly. There is a great deal of work to be done in this area in Parliament. This is necessary, for example, in order to deal with delays in orders much more quickly. That is why we need to see how we can make night work more flexible, increase voluntary overtime and continue to encourage telework where it is useful and possible. The burden on labour also remains a fundamental problem. Let us look at the reduction in social security and corporate tax, and let us use these three packages of measures within a clear, temporary and limited framework to tackle the crisis. The proposals, which are important for our companies and for workers on the one hand and for social security on the other, because they reduce the payment of benefits and increase the income to social security, were also put on the table last weekend. Unfortunately, they didn't immediately get the support of everyone. In any case, we call on everyone to cooperate with what we decide and approve here today, so that the measures for our companies and employees are given the necessary support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u102	Mr President, this draft law provides additional support for companies in difficulty. It allows the losses incurred this year to be deducted from last year's profits, so that the tax on last year's profits does not have to be paid first. This will undoubtedly meet the liquidity needs of our companies and safeguard their solvency. As in the case of the scheme whereby companies receive deferred payment of advances on corporate tax, a number of conditions are imposed on companies to benefit from the measure. That's normal, too. We must ensure that the right companies are reached as far as possible and that we do not object to public finances by supporting companies that do not need them. For example, in order to benefit from the aid measure, companies will not be allowed to have links with tax havens, to pay dividends, to reduce capital or to buy their own shares this year. In the law on advances, there was the additional condition that bonuses should not be paid to top management. The Minister had forgotten to include this condition in the draft law before us, and that is why we had submitted it to the committee by means of an amendment. Unlike last time, the condition was not supported by a majority this time. The liberal parties had changed their minds. That is surprising in itself. The representatives of those parties in the Committee on Finance, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Leysen, have been more and more irritated over the last few weeks by the fact that groups are putting forward legislative proposals that cost money, that spending is being decided quickly in contrast to revenue and that unnecessary gifts would be distributed. Well, our amendment today only reduces the number of companies that can make use of the measure and eliminates the number of companies that do not need the present. Now it's not good for some people again. So, Mr Leysen, I really wonder what we can do to ensure that you approve of cooperation; you will certainly explain this shortly. Let us be clear: our condition effectively excludes companies that do not need the aid. Financial intervention by the public authorities must be accompanied by an effort by the company. A company that finds sufficient resources to give top management extra bonuses on top of basic salary clearly does not need public support to strengthen solvency and equity. We must ensure that the measures are directed at those companies that need them. In the specific case, it is about companies making losses. Lose and at the same time award extra bonuses, don't go together. That is why we want to exclude these companies from the measure. That is why I hope to have sufficient support for the amendment in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact going through an economic crisis following the heavy health crisis that we are experiencing. From this point of view, it is obviously essential to ensure that our economic fabric can overcome the hardships imposed on it. It is known that companies are aware of, or have experienced, complete closures for some of them. We were talking the other day about the horeca area. This is one example among many others. We were still talking this afternoon about the event. It's an additional demonstration. And then, a whole series of other companies did not close but saw their turnover drop because they saw their order books weaken, weaken. As a result, companies are now facing very serious cash flow problems. Fixed charges remain, but turnover is no longer there and, as a result, there is no more revenue. A whole series of measures have been taken to address precisely this cash flow problem: deferment of payment of social contributions, VAT, to take only a few examples. That is not enough. We see him every day. Even yesterday, I met a Brussels federation of room and event managers, a group of companies among many others, explaining to me that they were now obliged to either deposit the balance sheet or try to obtain additional credit from their bank, but with the difficulties we are experiencing. And, of course, their customers are also asking for down payment refunds. This is one example among many others. I spoke with them about the bill that we are going to vote for, which they did not know existed, but which obviously interested them. So that's not enough to meet their problems. They ask that we move towards a normalization of the situation. They ask to be able to continue operating their rooms with a sufficient number of customers and sufficient assistance; but nevertheless, in the batch of their requests, the answer that I provided with reference to what we are going to vote seemed to be partially encountering one of their difficulties. Therefore, this possibility of exonerating in one way or another, or in any case of being able to have an anticipated tax use of this year's losses on the profits of the preceding year, is obviously an element of creativity – but the Tax Code is full of them – which, I believe, is in the right direction. Of course, there will continue to be some practical questions, such as not having made it a separate law, but rather having made the choice to amend the Income Tax Code. This suggests that the measure will be of a permanent nature. Perhaps it would have been better to make it a specific law avoiding any form of ambiguity in relation to that. In the same way, we regret the choice of the technique used. It's not the simplest thing. We go through the technique of reserves. It would have been better, in our view, simply to go through the technique of deduction or imputation. That is why we are asking that, in one way or another, the Minister remain vigilant about the way in which they are implemented. The aim is not to add elements of a bureaucratic and administrative nature, but to apply a simple mechanism. That is why it may also be necessary to provide answers through appropriate circulars, which can be drafted quickly. There is therefore here, in my head, an appeal to the Minister for the adoption of an administrative circular by his services as soon as possible. Similarly, the discussions may not have resulted in clear and definitive answers on a particular issue. In practical terms, how will companies obtain, in ringing and tripping cash, by transfer to their bank account, the recovery and imputation of their losses to previous profits? Will this be done through a complaint, through an ad hoc form? These are questions that companies are asking themselves. I would naturally welcome the fact that the minister - and I must thank him frankly - has been consistent in the arrangements he has proposed to Parliament, with regard to the exclusion of these favourable measures which cost the community money, whenever it is shown that there are, in one way or another, ramifications in tax havens. It is good, I think, to keep this reflex to think that, in the end, public money is so valuable in general and especially in times of crisis that to avoid that some, who go up to tax havens, benefit from it. From this point of view, of course, we must rejoice. I will of course not go back to the episode which saw the dossier of the reconstitution of reservations, which seemed to us not to have to be adopted at the same time. I also welcome the desire expressed by the Minister to be able to move forward and postpone the debate until later. That is why, with all these precautions and adaptations, we will vote for this text, which we believe is in the right direction. We simply ask the Minister to give us an evaluation, as he has done with regard to bank guarantees and other texts, in the context of constructive discussions in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u104	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, recent meetings of the Finance and Budget Commission have been conducted under a special guise. President Dewael, who came to the Damian Room on Tuesday, will have seen that. The spectacle that unfolded there has been giving me sleepless nights for a while. Mr Minister, I am not fortunate that you have fallen in your turn when, according to your father's fistful autobiography, at least you were awakened as a little boy every time your father came home after a long working day to tell you and your sister some stories after which you had an even better sleep. No, I have to deal with the stories of my colleagues Leysen and Van Quickenborne, who have actually plunged me into a deep identity crisis. After all, the Flemish interest is accused of systematically supporting "selling out in the left-hand shop" and, in this way, of getting a rising bill on the bus of people who work or do business. That's nicely put, isn't it? It's literally from their press release. At the same time, however, we in committee were accused by colleagues Calvo and Vandenbroucke of supporting an amendment by the N-VA referring to an opinion of the Council of State. That opinion stated that, by virtue of the caselaw of the Court of Justice, companies active in the proverbial tax havens should be allowed to provide proof of their legitimate financial and economic need to operate there. Mr President, for the Open Vld we are left, just like no cryptocommunists, while for sp.a., Green and PVDA we are uncut defenders of big business, multinationals and bosses. Hence the confusion, the identity crisis and the sleepless nights. Fortunately, I have counsellors like my group chairman who have given me the remedy for my confusion and fears. Could it not be, Mr Calvo, that we simply judge every bill, bill, resolution, motion and amendment that is on the table on its merits? I know that we are in a rather private position in the Rue de la Loi and in this Gremium too. Whether it is an initiative by my always very charming colleague Wim Van der Donkt, or a proposal by my colleague Marco Van Hees, who has been pretending for a year that I do not exist for him and therefore am not part of reality, or better his reality, we always look at the content and never judge a priori. Therefore, pay attention to predictions about relative majorities. A lot has been published on this in the newspapers in recent days. So we have also looked at the draft law before us with full attention and indiscretion. We can agree to the Minister's choice for the carry-back scheme or early loss deduction, whereby companies can sell their expected losses of this year compared to their taxable income for the financial year 2019. In this way, they may or may not partially request their advance payments back. Thus, the tax invoice for the 2019 revenue year is significantly tempered. Self-employed persons and businesses will be able to create a duty-free corona reserve in order to strengthen their own capital. Indeed, the carry-back mechanism strengthens companies' equity in the short term and in a direct way by improving both their cash position and their solvency. Deduction of the expected tax losses of 2020 is one thing to bring forward to 2019 and now incorporate it into the introductory part, because strict conditions do apply. Sanctions are foreseen for those who greatly overestimate their expected loss of 2020. That sanction takes the form of a tax increase in personal income tax and a special tax on corporate income tax. Having a double tax advantage is therefore effectively not the intention. In any case, the method of calculating the special assessment is likely to become very complex. Mr Laaouej has rightly drawn attention to this. However, Minister, we were unable to approve the third measure, the measure on the reconstruction of capital, not all of which is the smell of roses and moonshine. It concerns the duty-free reconstruction reserves for the tax years 2022, 2023 or 2024, in order to gradually restore the solvency position, provided that maintaining own funds and debt instruments is indeed of particular importance in maintaining the level of employment. Minister, you may not blame us, but we felt it necessary for the Council of State to have given a sound opinion. The urgency was not motivated by your government. Mr President-in-Office, the reconstruction reserve seemed to us to be a rather structural measure and is therefore more part of a global package of re-launch measures. Mr Vandenbroucke, you may do this later, but I will not interfere with your debate with the Minister on whether or not your alternative mechanism of tax credit is a disguised subsidy system. Colleagues and Mr Vandenbroucke, however, do not worry if we ensure that the Minister's choice is made. After all, on the basis of the reports from the day before yesterday, the situation is changing every day, and if I may believe your chairman and Mr Magnette, you may soon have sufficient opportunity to discuss the matter with Mr De Croo in a net no majority government or relative majority government. However, Mr Verherstraeten, after yesterday, we now know that Mr Lachaert and Mr Coens are afraid of such a government. I wouldn't dare in their place. There must still be at least one Flemish loser from 26 May 2019. Minister, with the exception of the N-VA, the super core has now reached an agreement on a number of matters relating to taxation and financing for and for companies and self-employed persons. We can also endorse them as liquidity measures in themselves. I mention the cost of catering and events, which will be deductible by the end of 2020 in personal and corporate tax at 100%. The VAT advance to be paid by companies in December 2020 was also suspended by one month. Of course, there was also the expansion of the tax shelter for impacted SMEs, which financially stimulates citizens wishing to invest in a company through a tax reduction. I am also looking forward to your draft law, which, on the basis of the new circumstances, will amend the bank guarantee scheme. The moratorium has apparently been used fiercely in the meantime. More than 250,000 loans have been requested for deferred payment. You seem to have an agreement with the sector to extend that moratorium until the end of 2020. Thank you for your attention and, in turn, I am pleased to accept your thanks for our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u105	Mr President, Minister, we are in a serious economic crisis and this draft law provides for a number of measures, in line with those already taken. A number of weeks ago, we adopted a number of measures, ranging from the untaxable nature of the aid granted by the Länder to measures relating to advance payments. These are all measures which have an impact on the ground and which are also appreciated there. Today's proposals are aimed at promoting the liquidity and solvency of our independent companies and SMEs. The first part of the proposals deals with the possibility of taking into account the losses that will be recorded in a company this year as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis and to offset them against last year's profits. That is what is happening in this year's tax return. The result is that they will have an effect quickly, either by getting more back or by having to pay less taxes. This creates a lot of oxygen for independent companies and SMEs. It's not a general measure. There are also a number of restrictions, which is a good thing. For example, only healthy companies can use it and there is also the ban on a link with tax havens. It is, of course, also a temporary measure. The estimate of the loss, which must be done and which can make it complicated, is a correction, which means that one cannot just lose in the wild. The same system is also provided for in corporation tax. The last part, and I have just said it, hasn't made it for a while. It concerns the reconstruction reserve, but it is a measure with some effect, which is mainly linked to important conditions, such as the maintenance of employment, which will become increasingly important in the coming months. As the Minister has announced, this part will come back to one of the following draft laws, with additional measures. In conclusion, we can say that our group will fully support this bill because we are convinced that this will provide an additional incentive to promote the liquidity and solvency of our independent companies and SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u106	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, there were two parts to this bill, as it was put before us in committee. One aspect, still present, contains an urgent measure in the context of the coronavirus crisis and concerns the liquidity problems of the self-employed and the companies. This is a sort of retroactive recovery of losses. Normally, one-year losses are deducted from profits in the following year or years. Here, the opposite is true: a loss in 2020 can be deducted from 2019 income taxes, a measure relating to personal tax and the other to corporate tax. Another component introduced a replenishment reserve, a long-term measure running until 2024. The Council of State also pointed out that this aspect was not urgent. Finally, the minister tried to pass a mixture of genres, a little insidious, mixing texts with quite different staves. In my opinion, this mixture was not appropriate at all, since this second part involves a form of recovery plan. Even the Governor of the National Bank says that a stimulus plan of giving gifts to companies to make them invest is not a good idea in the current situation. And you can't say he's from the radical left. This second part was not accepted in committee. Therefore, this urgent measure to ensure liquidity remains. We can support this measure. However, we believe that it should not be unconditional. Conditions are laid down in the bill; I want to go back to two of them that are the subject of an amendment that we have tabled. The first condition concerns employment. The amendment is intended to deny the benefit of the measure to companies which would carry out dark cuts in their staff. We find it inappropriate to grant aid to a company that would dismiss half of its employees. For this reason, we added a conditionality in terms of employment that did not exist in this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u107	The second condition we have is tax havens. Some colleagues have said that it already exists. Moreover, the Minister has not deprived himself of boasting this conditionality excluding companies operating in tax havens. However, the measure seems a little hypocritical to me. First of all, let us take the list that serves as a reference – in other words, article 179 of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code. We note that these are not among the most formidable tax havens on the planet – listed by Oxfam – that offer the greatest benefits to multinationals and are therefore the most damaging to people. The Minister could therefore update and expand his list. It seems to me, moreover, that this competence falls within its remit. In addition, the Tax Code provides for regular updates. But that is not the case. So that's what the first problem is. Second, the text itself excludes from profit companies which hold a direct interest in another present in one of the tax havens set out in Article 179. A "direct interest" means that the measure applies, for example, to a Belgian company with a subsidiary located in the Bahamas. On the other hand, a Belgian company owned by a company in the Bahamas would not be excluded. In short, the "daughter" – the subsidiary – is excluded, but not the parent or the "granddaughter" – that is, the subsidiary of the subsidiary. Similarly, there is no exclusion of the "co-factory", i.e. another subsidiary of the parent company. You understand, therefore, that limiting the exclusion to direct participation in a subsidiary is meaningless. What needs to be done is to identify the whole group to which the company benefiting from the measure belongs and to identify whether, in the organisation chart of that group, there are subsidiaries in tax havens. That is the meaning of a real exclusion from tax havens. It was this problem that probably escaped the minister. Now that this problem has been pointed out, the Liberal parties will be able to vote in favour of our amendment, which aims to resolve it and effectively exclude companies active in tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, companies want to do business and are not created to be saved. Companies are set up at all times, even in this corona crisis, companies are set up and thrive, such as soap manufacturers and mouth mask producers, which unfortunately appear in the street. There are also companies that are disappearing. Some disappear a little faster than others due to a crisis. It is a government's mission to ensure, through smart measures, that companies that were healthy and healthy at critical times give a boost and help to survive a difficult period. A booklet by West-Flemish entrepreneurs developed by Mrs Kathleen Verhelst, The clear view on corona, says "Back to work, please," "We'll get more work than ever" and "Return is better than state aid." We are actually talking about a liquidity measure in which a certain logic is that the correct tax calculation is carried out, not in one year, but in two years' time. In committee, I have already said that the measures that exist, of which there is only one for the vote, are part of a very complex tax legislation. I am in favour of fewer rules, clear rules and better rules in the future. I also noted that in the draft laws before us the technicality is sometimes too high. I should like to address the previous speaker. It is nice that everyone wants to add something nice to every bill, a bonus that is popular with their own supporters, such as banning bonuses. I fully understand the need to combat excesses. However, is it not in the public interest for companies to return to profitability and to be able to pay taxes as soon as possible? That should almost be encouraged, especially at a time when we are looking at a budget deficit of 50 billion. It is about liquidity, but the discussion is also about how we can strengthen the solvency, the backbone of companies. I don't think the state's supposed to give money for that. In the context of relance, it is important that we support those companies that want to increase their solvency and thus strengthen their liquidity base as they become more creditworthy. I am thinking in particular of the companies that are anchored here, of the family enterprises. That goes from UCB and Solvay to small SMEs and self-employed. I'm having a bit of a hard time with Mr. Vanbesien, but how can I make him happy? I will make you happy by giving you that booklet, not only for you but above all for your colleagues from Ecolo who can learn something in terms of business economy. Mr Ravyts, that identity crisis is happening in all parties at the moment, but I have seen that there are very often combinations that are very exceptional. Don't worry. My colleague and I are on the same page, but everyone has their own words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has shown that the corona virus also has a number of unknown, unexpected side effects. It seems to have plunged some colleagues into a deep identity crisis. I do not think that a draft law, whatever it may be, can remedy this. I don't know if we should help with that either. I know that this bill is very important, useful and necessary, Minister. Our economy has, of course, suffered a very heavy blow and, in particular, many companies that are the backbone of our economic fabric. If the government throws out a lifeboat for these companies, the sp.a considers this to be fundamentally constructive. Even now, we have done so. You will have noticed that this bill is linked to a bill from us, along with colleagues from the PS. We have packed that bill in a number of amendments to improve Minister De Croo's bill, to make it more targeted and to throw a number of things, ballast, overboard. As far as the latter is concerned, it worked. Admittedly, not because of our amendment, but because of the opinion of the Council of State, which fell out of the chapter on the reconstruction reserve. Quite rightly, we think. This is a long-term structural measure which is potentially toxic to our State's income. This deserves a separate debate within the framework of a fully-fledged re-launch plan, should it occur in the short term. What remains of the draft law is the very important possibility of early loss deductions. In itself, we can fully support that. We think it is a wise choice to give companies and self-employed people the opportunity to offset the expected losses of 2020 with the taxes to be paid on the profits of 2019. This gives those companies and self-employed the necessary breathing space that is now needed to make a start to the post-corona era. However, we find it extremely regrettable, Minister De Croo, that you and colleagues from the other groups have missed the opportunity to incorporate another of our amendments into the draft law. The purpose of this amendment was to provide for a tax credit. After all, I do not understand, certainly not from a liberal minister, nor from the Liberal Group or groups, I do not know how many they are now; much has already been discussed in the Finance Committee that companies and self-employed persons who have not made taxable profits in 2019 are completely out of the loop. It can be perfect that a company is healthy and has turned accounting break-even in 2019. It may be perfect that a company has indeed made accounting profits that can eventually be reduced to zero tax, for example by tax losses from the past. I do not understand why those companies, which have also suffered a heavy blow, are being pushed completely out of the boat. I would like to repeat our proposal. Of course, it cannot be the intention of companies that were already in difficulty, on the brink of collapse and were structurally loss-making, to pay taxes so that they can stumble through the crisis. That is not the proposal of the socialist groups. Our proposal is for companies that have not made taxable profits in 2019, but which also have no RSZ debts or tax debts and which have a positive equity capital.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I really do not understand why I have reread the report of our discussion and why this government has chosen not to give them a lifeboat and why it believes that these companies, when they are seriously affected by the crisis, do not deserve support. They too are part of the economic fabric that we will need to give our economy a start. Minister, I hope that you will use this debate to either understand and recognise that a new initiative will have to be taken to support these companies or to provide an acceptable answer to the question of why healthy companies, which did not make taxable profits in 2019, should not be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u110	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group will support the measures proposed in this bill. Indeed, with the crisis of the VOCID-19, our economy is truly crossed by an earthquake. These measures, which provide liquidity and solvency support for short-term enterprises, are obviously important and positive. These crisis measures enable them to compensate for the particular situation we are experiencing today. As you know, together with my colleague, Josy Arens, I have drawn attention, in committee, to a problem related to the text. Indeed, for some companies, the latter was missing its target in the carry back segment. These companies could not use this mechanism since the period imposed for the application of the scheme did not correspond to the period during which they actually suffered the most significant impact related to the VOCID-19, in particular due to the uncertainty of the balance sheet date. We have therefore tabled amendments, and I would like to thank the colleagues who supported them because this has made it possible to correct the scheme and not unfairly deprive certain companies of the advantages of this mechanism. This will allow companies to freely choose the year they consider the most representative of the loss related to VOCID-19, regardless of the balance sheet closing date between March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020. Without these amendments, therefore, some companies would not have been able to benefit from this scheme. I think, for example, of a company in my region that you all know, that you may visit this summer, with your children or grandchildren, not to name it Pairi Daiza. In any event, it was important to make this correction, which is why I would like to thank the minister, but also the colleagues who allowed this to happen. Before concluding, I would like to extend, Mr President, for a moment the part relating to the replenishment reserve which has been rescheduled in committee. It is true that this is probably not a step that needs to be taken quickly. On the other hand, it is a measure that needs to be considered in the longer term, particularly in the context of the recovery package. I therefore hope that we will come back to this issue in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u111	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all the members of the committee for the very broad discussion, broad on the subject and on the political colour. Many have evaluated the proposal on its merits and have really looked at what we want to achieve with our answer. Even though the vote was sometimes somewhat chaotic and some people undoubtedly thought that this was a mistake, the text that was finally adopted has proved to be coherent. Some say there's some complexity in what's on the table. But this complexity comes from the fact that we want to avoid abuse. As you know, we need to estimate the 2020 loss to be able to offset it over 2019. If there were no sanctions measures – which makes the measure more complex – there would be a clear risk of abuse. I prefer to have something complex that avoids abuse to something simple that opens the door to abuse. Many have referred to the measure as a solvency measure. That's correct. However, it also contains a very substantial element of liquidity. Companies that have made advance payments may, on the basis of the declaration, which will be published shortly, be able to respond to Mr Laaouej's question on how to recover prepayments made in the very short term, which may be a very important liquidity element today. What logic have we based ourselves on? I hope that this will also provide an answer to the points of criticism raised by Mr Vandenbroucke. The reasoning is that we are helping profitable companies through the crisis by allowing them to take advantage of their profitability. In principle one always looks to the future, but here we give the opportunity to make use of the profitability of the past. This also means that the measure is budgetaryly neutral over the years. This year's losses could take a company to the future, but they now take it to the past. Of course, this does not apply to future profits. It is therefore clear that the measure is not a subsidy. In my view, that is essential. Taxation is not intended to set up a subsidy system. If one were to work with a system of tax credits, in some cases the tax credit would become a de facto subsidy. I think we should avoid that. I know that some say that there are many conditionalities in relation to tax havens, but not in relation to the employment rate, for the time being. But in the next steps, it's different. In the discount, a condition of employment is present, and to the extent of the replenishment reserve. In this regard, clearly, the opinion of the Council of State was not given in an urgent manner because it had not been sufficiently motivated. This is an element of maintaining employment. I think it's completely defensible. It is not the first time that we have imposed the condition of tax havens; we have already done so for the postponement of advance payments. If we want to make use of certain tax conditions, I think it is absolutely justifiable that those who use tax arrangements in tax havens cannot be eligible. This has led us in a direction that I believe can be followed. Some asked whether the Belgian list used was sufficiently extensive. I would like to quote two professors of tax law in this respect. Professor of Tax Law Luc De Broe van de KU Leuven said in an article in De Tijd that quite a few companies are at risk of falling out of the boat, because our country uses not the European but the Belgian list of tax havens as a reference. De Broe says: "On the European list there are only a negligible number of countries, on the Belgian list there are 30 countries, not only Mickey Mouse tax havens, which means that the range of companies that are at risk of falling out is much larger." A little further, his fellow fiscalist Axel Haelterman says: "This pushes companies to the ground that contacts with tax havens should be justified if one wants to enjoy other tax advantages. It also supports the credibility of tax measures to the wider population, which is at least as important." I agree with what both professors say about this. Mr Laaouej, you asked a question about the administrative element. A circular is being drafted. It will be distributed as soon as possible. I believe that I have answered most of the elements. As Mr Matheï said in his report, there was a third part, which was related to the reconstruction reserve. But for that they will wait for the opinion of the Council of State. Some felt it was a measure too long-term. But where is the beautiful center? If we take short-term measures, they are not bad but too bad for the short term. If we take a longer-term measure, we are not satisfied with it either. In any case, I will see in committee in the coming weeks how the measure on the reconstruction reserve is dealt with. I think it is just as necessary as we are going to approve it today. I am very grateful for the fact that we will at least work on the other measures and thank again all those who have assessed this draft law on its merits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u112	Mr Minister, I note that, in your view, the self-employed and companies that did not make taxable profits in 2019, who do not have tax debts or RSZ debts and who have positive equity capital, do not deserve support. You are insinuating that what we are proposing is a subsidy. It's not that. It is a one-off and limited credit, which must be repaid because we believe that such healthy companies will be able to do so, at least if we help them now. According to your reasoning, it's not even overstated, a loan of 25 million euros to Aviapartners is therefore a potential grant. I am talking about self-employed and SMEs who are fundamentally healthy. Our proposal is subject to very strict conditions. I conclude that you do not use logic here, but simply choose to abandon potentially thousands of SMEs and self-employed people, who are also part of our country's economic fabric for our group and which we will also need to get on top of. That's not logic, that's a choice of yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u113	I have just said that everyone is trying to add a bonus to that legislation for their own people. On top of that, sp.a also wants to make itself popular with companies and self-employed people. If they do not ask for it, spare your enthusiasm and your willingness for legislation that will follow. We have a budget deficit of 50 billion. Everyone says that it is debts that will never be repaid and that we will have to repress money. I take this opportunity to refer to statements by the well-known and popular professor Paul De Grauwe in the Gazette of Antwerp. On the question of whether there was a limit to the printing of money, he replied: yes, because if people put too much money into circulation, people would buy more and prices would rise, leading to inflation and even hyperinflation. When the journalist comes up with a scoop by asking if he means as happened in a few African countries, where a wheelbarrow with money bills had to go to the baker's shop to buy bread, Paul De Grauwe replies and points out that this also happened in Germany, where postage stamps of 5 billion German marks were in circulation after the First World War. Now, as Liberals, we are once pleading for modesty, even though that is surprising. I propose that the enthusiasm for other measures be preserved. Perhaps it would be useful to evaluate whether there is an effective question. In fact, companies do not want to be subject to a government infusion, they do not want to make their payroll subject to the approval of Members of Parliament, let alone to political groups with opinions far from the economic reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u114	Mr Vandenbroucke, I am receptive to your reasoning. Indeed, some companies made little or no profit in 2019, for example because they invested a lot. Those companies are partly excluded from the present measure. I know plenty of entrepreneurs who have made investments. We need to look at how we can also give them extra support. In the past, under then Minister Johan Van Overtveldt in the Swedish government, for example, the investment deduction was approved. A similar reasoning would not work now, but we might find other appropriate measures for that group. Mr Vandenbroucke, the problem with your proposal is more fundamental. The Minister also points out that your proposal is not so much a tax measure as a subsidy measure. In the plenary, the Minister did not say that so explicitly, but it was discussed in more detail at the committee meeting. It is also a question of competence, because such a theme comes on the tension between taxation and subsidies. When it tends more towards subsidy, it is a state power and has less place here, in the Federal Parliament. You know that we are not immediately jumping for re-federalisation ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u115	Applause!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u116	Let's hear it on some couches. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u117	Mr Vandenbroucke, during my speech you must listen carefully to every word I have said. I have indicated that in some cases the potential could lead to a subsidy. If the companies concerned subsequently make a profit, it is not a subsidy. You're right about that. If, however, they never make a profit again, because, unfortunately, they go overboard, for example, it has been a subsidy. That is why I have some fear of your measure, which has good intentions. I am not pushing that measure away because I would be convinced that you would have bad intentions, I simply believe that the measure could have some side effects that I think are dangerous. You note that companies that make losses are not in the scope. I will not raise the issue again, but my measure on the reconstruction reserve will apply to companies that are making losses, and we will have the debate on that. There are also other measures. Of course, all measures of deferment of expiry will apply. The measures still to be taken, such as a reduction of EUR 460 million in the farm levy for companies rebooting, of course, apply. The tax shelter is valid. The investment deduction is being re-implemented, now at 25% by 2020. We have therefore taken very broad measures. Nor did I claim that the carry-back arrangement would be the solution to everything. This scheme operates on the basis of the logic that profits can be sold in relation to losses. It's better to keep that logic. You are right to be concerned about helping companies that have invested heavily and that have not made a profit by chance in 2019. The question is how do we do that? I don't think that's according to the system you're proposing. However, I am open to other solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u118	The Minister gives the example of a company that receives a credit according to the Vandenbroucke system. If that company goes bankrupt, the credit can no longer be repaid. De facto, then, it has become a subsidy. However, I would like to go back to the example Mr Vandenbroucke used earlier, namely that of Aviapartner. It's the same thing. If you give 25 million euros of credit to Aviapartner and the company goes bankrupt and doesn't pay back the credit, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u119	That's correct. But there is no tax measure in that file. What we do with Aviapartner is exceptional. I also explained the conditions for such an exceptional situation this afternoon. The consequences are known if, despite our support, it still goes wrong. But if we don't take that measure, then what happens? That consideration must always be made. Your comparison doesn't go far enough. If one invests in the capital of a company, there is a certain risk. That's correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u121	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1309/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1309/4) The bill has 27 articles. The draft law has 27 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u122	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 17................................................................................................................................................................................................ • 18 "Marco Van Hees" (1309/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u123	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u124	Sustained: the amendments and Article 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u125	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 19 and 21 to 27.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u127	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Özlem Özen, Ludivine Dedonder, Sophie Thémont, Patrick Prévot, Evita Willaert, Julie Song. The rapporteur is Mrs Lanjri, but I must give priority to a point of order by Mr Anseeeuw, who seeks to consult the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u128	By e-mail of 18 June 2020, Mr Björn Anseeuw tabled a motion on a request from the House of Representatives to the Court of Auditors for an inquiry into the budgetary impact of the proposed law improving the situation of workers in the cultural sector, Nos. 1154/1 to 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u129	On the basis of art. 54 of the House's Rules of Procedure and with reference to the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors, we request that the examination of Bill No. 1154 'Improving the situation of workers in the cultural sector', previously referred to as 'Proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment with a view to bringing to an end the rule for the reduction of allowances in the event of the cumulation of unemployment benefits and income from the exercise of an artistic activity', be submitted to the Court of Auditors in order to estimate the budgetary impact of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u130	The vote on this bill in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions has been rather chaotic. When the bill was considered at second reading on 9 June, it was added to the bill, by way of amendment, extended provisions which were adopted at the same sitting. The aim of these provisions is, in particular, to significantly increase initial access to unemployment benefits for workers engaged in artistic activities. The budgetary impact of the provisions contained in the bill is not known.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u131	It should be noted that the above-mentioned provision, which was added by way of amendment at the committee meeting on 9 June, is clearly based on Bill 1200 'to protect workers in the arts sector from the crisis of the VOCID-19'. During the examination of Bill 1200 in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions of 19 May, it was proposed by our group to seek the opinion of the Court of Auditors. This request was not granted. On the same day, Bill 1200 was passed at first reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u132	The recently published economic projections of the National Bank of Belgium indicate that public debt and the budget deficit will rise sharply as a result of measures taken to combat the coronavirus crisis. In view of these conclusions of the National Bank, it does not seem appropriate to adopt the proposed law in question before at least an estimate of its budgetary impact is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us no longer resembles what was originally tabled. That's not without importance. That is why I tabled this motion to ask the Court of Auditors to make an estimate of the budgetary impact of what is before us today. The original intention of this proposal was no longer to deduct non-wage income from artistic activities from an unemployment benefit for artists. From now on, artists should therefore be allowed to accumulate unemployment benefits with income from work. However, it is a basic principle of our unemployment insurance that the benefit is granted only to people who have no income and no work. This proposal runs counter to that basic principle. We say this not only, but also the RVA says so in so many words in its opinion. More importantly, the RVA says that this proposal was not the solution to the problem faced by artists. As far as we are concerned, and I have also said this in committee, there is no reason to favour income from non-wage artistic activities in the calculation of unemployment benefit in relation to other self-employed activities in the secondary sector. If we have to give people who have an income from work unemployment benefit at the same time, the end is completely lost. It is, of course, very tempting to become an artist as soon as possible with this proposal. It's not that imaginary. There is another bill on the table, No. 1 200, a legislative proposal aimed at significantly lowering the threshold for access to the artists' statute. Everyone's an artist. When we read these two proposals together, we see a container for disaster, which is to allow everyone to enter unemployment, and then allow it to accumulate indefinitely with other income from work. Why am I referring to Bill No. 1200? You are well aware, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Social Affairs, that this text is based on Amendment No 2. 15 entered in the text before us today. In other words, there is now a legislative proposal that can have a particularly large budgetary impact. If the threshold to unemployment is significantly reduced for artists, and in fact for anyone who could become an artist, and at the same time allows the accumulation of unemployment benefits with income from work, then one does not know what one is getting into, and certainly not what one is getting out of. If we then see the recently published economic projections of the National Bank with regard, among other things, to public debt and the budget deficit, and especially as a result of the measures taken in the fight against corona, it is my belief that it is not appropriate to submit this bill for approval without any idea of the possible budgetary impact. From the precautionary principle, from the point of view of social security, but also for the sake of common sense and good governance, I think it is appropriate to ask the Court of Auditors for an estimate of the budgetary impact. It won't be any less so anyway. A door is being opened here, without us being able to assess the consequences. I think it is important to take an informed decision on the bill, not least when it comes to the budgetary impact. Hence this motion, hence this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, each group may take the floor for five minutes. Mr. Anseuw, hadn't you done it yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u135	Mr President, I would like to add something very briefly. As far as I'm concerned, that can go fast. It is not my intention to set up a delay manoeuvre. As far as I am concerned, the question may be put to the Court of Auditors as a matter of urgency, so that it continues. I am aware of the concern of many of my colleagues here. We may differ on the content, but it is not my intention to make this a game. It really is the intention to be able to judge with knowledge here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u136	Mrs Dedonder, you wish to speak on the point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u137	Mr President, perhaps I will let colleagues speak and then conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u138	Yes, but it is not necessary for everyone to intervene. There is a wish to ask the Court of Auditors to calculate the budgetary cost. Unlike the Council of State, we cannot impose a deadline. We cannot, of course, impose a deadline on the Court of Auditors, but we can insist that this be done as a matter of urgency. There is an order motion before which everyone can take the floor, after which they normally sit down and get up. In order to streamline our work somewhat, I assume that we can vote on and stand up, in accordance with the procedure for the urgent requests that we apply every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u139	Of course, I hear my colleague's remarks very well. In fact, we asked for the Court of Auditors to be consulted in committee. I have also heard that there would be a request to entrust this analysis to the Council of State. On the substance, we do not find it difficult to request quantitative or legal analyses by seeking the advice of the Council of State. We usually do. But given the state of the case and the situation in which we find ourselves, we can obviously only seek these opinions in an emergency. If it is to return the file after parliamentary leave, it makes no sense in relation to the sector concerned. It is clear that in a number of areas we have made important and costly decisions. But this is one of the areas that needs to be supported, even if there are others, including real estate and travel agencies. Things may be built with bric and broc, but they've been built. I have no problem asking for these opinions, but it can only be done within a short time, otherwise we will be ineffective. If we obtain the consultation of the Council of State, which will be requested earlier, within five days, there is no problem. If we can have the opinion of the Court of Auditors in a very short period of time, no problem either. If this is not the case, we will abstain from the Court of Auditors, and as for the Council of State, we will only support it as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u140	For the sake of understanding, I am not, for the time being, taken up by a question for an opinion from the Council of State. In any case, the request for an opinion from the Court of Auditors has priority because it is the most far-reaching proposal. We have to exhaust it first and then we can see what else is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u141	Mr President, I do not rule out the possibility that Mrs Willaert or Mrs Chanson will be asking for the floor, since they have been responsible for the matter in committee. They were looking forward to starting the debate today and voting on the proposal. This is not only the feeling of colleagues in the committee, but also of a very large group in the cultural sector itself. I ask to speak because Mr Anseeeuw's demarche to seek the opinion of the Court of Auditors in plenary is highly unusual. It is quite traditional and customary to ask for an opinion from the Court of Auditors in committee, but this is very unusual in plenary and, with all due respect to Mr Anseeeuw, seems to be a delay manoeuvre. I myself have occasionally exhausted parliamentary procedures in recent years, but I do not remember having asked for an opinion from the Court of Auditors in plenary in recent years. I also think that this is a very unfortunate signal towards a sector that has been very badly hit. We have discussed the budgetary problems of the federal government, but the main aim of this proposal is to solve the budgetary problems of the artistic sector. I would therefore like to invite you not to take part in the delaying manoeuvres, ladies and gentlemen. One cannot put a deadline on a question for an opinion from the Court of Auditors, so that might mean a very long period of uncertainty. That is why my group will absolutely not support that. The delay manoeuvres must stop, tout court. The problems in the sector are enormous and the government has explicitly said on this dossier that it would not include them in the aid package because there are parliamentary activities in this area. Members who now announce that they would like to ask the Court of Auditors or the Council of State for an opinion had agreed that Parliament would work on this issue. In fact, the Prime Minister said so in plenary. When she was asked about the artistic sector of colleagues Chanson and others, she said that she would give Parliament full space for that. It would be a very bad signal to the sector if we stopped the parliamentary initiative now. Mr Anseuw, I am not surprised, because it is in line with the cultural policy you are pursuing at regional level, but it is very difficult for the sector and that is why we will not support the request for an opinion from the Court of Auditors. If the question were to come up for an opinion from the Council of State... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u142	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u143	Mr De Roover, when it comes to the decisions taken on Saturday, you are the least appropriate to comment on them, because you are the only one of all 150 who participated in them. If anyone has to dim down a little bit about Saturday's decisions, it's you. For my group, the opinion of the Court of Auditors is not at issue here and seems to be a delaying manoeuvre. I hope there will be no question before the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u144	That's your point of view. That's obvious. Mr Calvo's intervention must not be regarded as polemical. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u145	Mr President, we too are surprised by this question in plenary. Both legislative proposals have had a second reading. I think there were plenty of opportunities to ask such questions back then. There has also been an opinion from the Council of State on the first legislative proposal. What I deeply regret is that the sector has been in lockdown for more than three months now. Those people who work there have sent out cries to support them. It's often people in very precarious contracts. That is why we are taking this measure. It is therefore a temporary measure so that these people can temporarily bridge this crisis and simply fill their 'frigo' with food. That's what this is about. That is why we cannot support the request for advice. We will not be supporting the Council of State's request for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u146	I just said that not everyone is obliged to intervene. This will be followed up well again, because in the meantime I have everyone on my list. I think the Chamber will have to give its opinion. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Moscufo. Then Mrs Lanjri, Mr De Smet, Mrs Matz and then Mr Anseuw, the author of the motion, may intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u147	Mr President, before we take a decision on the proposal put on the table to ask for the opinion of the Court of Auditors, I would like to briefly recall what this is about. We have lived and are still experiencing a global health crisis that has serious social consequences for the vast majority of workers in this country, including workers in the cultural sector. Since the beginning of this crisis, we have here, in the various committees and especially in the Committee on Social Affairs, discussed the temporary emergency measures that we are going to take to deal with this crisis which, I would remind you, the workers are not responsible at all. At the same time, there was a debate in this committee specifically for this cultural sector. It was felt that some people did not want to understand or want to hear the specificity of this sector, which precisely led us to this reflection included in this bill, namely the cumulation between an unemployment benefit and the moment when the actor receives income for its creation. No one in this committee wants to impose a basic principle of cumulation of unemployment benefits with work. Here, we're in a specific sector. I have the impression that some people do not want to hear that we are dealing with specific workers who are in a situation where they can no longer fill their fridge for three months. That's what this is about! It is true that this committee has also discussed the continuation of the debate on how to envisage the working conditions of these workers in a structural and longer-term manner. There is a point of substance on which I can agree with the request, even if I do not accept it globally, this is obviously the issue that this crisis imposes on us. How are we going to refinance our social security? There's some leads here. Secondly, who will pay for this crisis? And here we have our corona tax. It's a little easy to say that we don't want to make those with the widest shoulders pay for this crisis and then tell others that we don't have enough money and that we're going to ask the Court of Auditors for its opinion. We have not done so for other social proposals that have been decided in a broad, progressive consensus in this committee. Of course, we will not support this proposal. We are convinced that this is a manoeuvre that does not surprise us because, from the beginning, the applicant for this motion was not prepared to defend this sector. I think the arts sector will have understood that. From the beginning, it was already the position that was defended at the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u148	Mr President, we must have a fair and correct debate here. At the beginning there were two legislative proposals, the first of which dealt with the cumulation. The opinion was requested from the Council of State, it was amended by the MR and adopted at first and second reading. At second reading, however, the second legislative proposal, which regulates access to unemployment benefit, was suddenly introduced into the first legislative proposal. I warned against this and said that it was better to keep the two legislative proposals separate. In that case, the first legislative proposal had passed without any problems, as the Council of State had already given its opinion on this matter. However, they wanted to insert that second bill, although there were enormous objections to it. I, too, have objected and expressed my concern at the fact that there would be discrimination, because some artists have access to unemployment benefits and others do not. Discrimination would be made even greater than it is today. I also think it is only logical that people should ask for this to be calculated. After all, once you are in the unemployment benefit system, you will remain in it because after that you will no longer have ten benefits but only three. So it is obvious that we are asking for a calculation. When the second proposal was introduced, we made it very clear that it would be better to ask the Council of State for its opinion on it. If you had agreed to ask for that advice at the time, it would have been there by now. We could then have asked for an opinion in the short term, after which the comments of the Council of State could possibly have been taken into account. In that case, there would have been no delay. However, this was refused, although it was known that Parliament could still decide in plenary to ask the Council of State for its opinion. So now there are actually two questions ahead, the question to the Court of Auditors and the question of the Council of State's advice. I support this question because it increases discrimination against the ordinary unemployed. I do not get it sold to the man in the street that a certain group of people gets much easier access to the unemployment benefit, after all, the bar is almost on the ground, whereas another group of people has to work 312 days for it. This creates not only discrimination between groups of people, but also between the artists themselves. Some may just come up with proof of ten performances for the period from 13 March 2019 to 13 March 2020, but some of them are just outside, just before or just after. Those artists won't get access. This also creates discrimination in the group. It also works through, increases discrimination. I think it is only logical that we should now be asking the Council of State for its opinion, which we have asked in committee. If we're gonna pass a law, it's gonna have to be a good law. It's not like we don't understand that artists are having a hard time. There are a lot of people in society who are having a hard time today. We must also do something for them effectively, including for those artists, but in a correct way. They have no interest in us voting a law that will soon be destroyed by the Constitutional Court for the sake of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u149	It is now about the opinion to the Court of Auditors, the budgetary consequences. Mrs Matz, Mr De Smet, Mr Vermeersch and Mrs Dedonder will be next.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u150	Mr President, what amazes me is that we should be debating the substance of what has been adopted in committee as we debate the form. We are complacent in completely sterile debates and politicians. Those who watch us on the Internet must be appalled and this will not reconcile the citizen – in this case the artists – with politics. We come at the last minute with requests, certainly made in committee but not accepted. Democracy speaks. I wonder how the opinion of the Council of State will bring added value and, moreover, we will not have the opinion of the Court of Auditors in five days. There were statements in the press, particularly the MR, on the need for a cultural programme and support for artists. As soon as we can do something, we don't do it and we do contortions. There has been a democratic vote in committee on these texts, which have been the subject of several discussions. This isn't something new that we're discovering now. There was a second reading of the text. We have to go now! We know that this sector needs special help. Last week, we also voted for Horeca with special measures. It is not a question of opposing one category to the other. Our goal is to try to help all those who need it, and we know that the cultural sector has a specificity in relation to the assistance we have to give it, given that it cannot resume its activities. We all know that even before the VOCID-19, there were already weaknesses in the artist status system. We are committed to reviewing this system, which does not correspond to their situation. They work and are not unemployed: they repeat, they create, they invent. We must, of course, take these elements into account. We cannot act as if we still had to oppose categories: if we give to the artists, we will not give to the Horeca, we will not give to the people who are in precariousness. This is not what we are talking about today. We must stop our manoeuvres based on the principle that this sector is not part of our electorate and think of the general interest. Indeed, culture is in the general interest, especially in these dark times that we live in. It brings together, it creates links, it fights against selfishness, differences. It is a sector that needs our full support. Let's stop the maneuvers with a blow yes, a blow no, a blow maybe, a blow we don't know, we'll see! Today we have an opportunity to help this sector, even if it is probably imperfect. At least this text has the merit of existing and obtained a majority in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u151	The only question before us now is whether we are presenting it to the Court of Auditors. Every speaker says that he will not mix that question with the substance of the matter, and every speaker starts off with the substance of the matter. Mr De Smet, make the exception today!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u152	Mr President, I will be brief. Our colleague said earlier: "This is not a delaying manoeuvre." What will it be the day he tells us it is? I regret it, but it still looks a lot like a dilatory manoeuvre. We're talking about thousands of people, artists. Many are looking at us right now and must indeed be appalled. We are talking about an emergency measure which was to end on 31 December. Some of us even wanted this to go until March, but it was only until December 31. We find ourselves with debates which have taken place in committee, in a fair and equitable manner, with a text which, perhaps, is not perfect but which had and still has the merit of helping a large number of players in the sector. Now, these people have been sent back to their status as unemployed for 15 to 20 minutes, while it is much more complicated than that. The status of an artist is precisely not a status like any other, and that is what is at stake. Without going any further, yes, we will of course oppose these demands, which are dilatory manoeuvres aimed at delaying as much as possible what should be a help to actors and technicians in the cultural world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u153	Mr De Smet, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr. Vermeersch.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u154	Mr President, I will not go into the substance of the matter, but I can only say that colleagues are concerned about the cost and therefore would like to ask the Court of Auditors' opinion. I see a number of colleagues who do not want to ask for this opinion. Mr Calvo, you want this approved here. Do you know what the cost of what is being voted on here today is? Colleagues of PVDA and sp.a., do you know the cost of what is in store here? You don't seem to be worried about that. I also refer to Défi's colleague, who recently tabled a bill on soaps. This bill then turned out to cost EUR 130 million for the budget. We then asked the Court of Auditors to correct that. Amendments were tabled to correct that cost, so I think this is a legitimate question. I would ask those Members who do not think that an opinion from the Court of Auditors is necessary what is the cost of what is before us today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u155	Mr President, we will support this question because we are concerned about the financial implications of the proposals. When you took office, you said that you wanted the Court of Auditors' advice to be systematically sought. Mr Leysen also tabled a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in that regard. It is a perfect logic and a consequence that we will support this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u156	Mr President, I wonder. I participated in all the debates, as co-signator of the bill. I hear each other's arguments, but I do not understand why this proposal for a request for an opinion to the Court of Auditors was not put forward at any time in the three committees at which we discussed at length and in depth, for hours, not later than two weeks ago. I can hear my colleague from Vlaams Belang worrying about the costs. I would like to remind him that his party voted in favour of this proposal. No member of his party sought this opinion from the Court of Auditors. I'd like to, but we're going to waste some more time. I also have a doubt about the timing of this opinion. Some have called him back. We don't want to talk about substance now...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u157	Dear colleague, I'm interrupting you. You're the second speaker in your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u158	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u159	I'm just applying the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u160	This text was discussed for 18 hours in committee. I do not understand why this has not been proposed in committee! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u161	Madame Chanson, a little calm! I'm just applying the rules. The Rules of Procedure say that each group takes part in this debate. You're a band. Has that changed? No. Let's be serious! Mrs. Dedonder, you're the last speaker. We will then speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u162	Colleagues, almost two months ago to the day, on 16 April, the same plenary session decided to give urgency to the Socialist Party's proposal, which I wanted to defend at the end of the day. Two months later, the committee considered our proposal five times and an opinion of the Council of State has already been requested on the proposal for a non-accumulation. This opinion was not requested in five days, but in thirty days. Everything was a pretext for the postponement of these commissions. While we have organised hearings, heard from artists, technicians, sculptors, editors, writers, trade union representatives, representatives of the artistic sector; when we have heard all their cry of distress, that we have heard this deep disarray, that we have heard and seen the extent of the damage of the crisis for thousands of women and men forced to cancel, to lay off; when we have heard that many of them are unable to enter the boxes that allow social protection, we are now planning to give a first answer. I have heard all of you, on these committees, hand over to the heart, guaranteeing that you will bring a quick solution. All of you promised them during these hearings. Court of Auditors, Council of State, maybe another opinion while we're at it? We can go on. Who says better? You want to postpone the debate and the vote. Who today will join the N-VA, this great friend of culture, the one that has opposed our text since the beginning? The N-VA, whose love for culture is known, which, before the crisis, reduced the budget for cultural subsidies in the Flemish Region by 60%. I'm asking you the question. Is it the N-VA that leads the dance in this Parliament? Let's remember that we're talking about survival for some of these artists. We are talking about facilitating their access to unemployment benefits. We are talking about people who are severely affected by the crisis. This sector is still at a standstill, like its workers. We do not ask for alms, however, in this country! I am really thinking of all those who, tomorrow, will wake up again in the belly, wondering how they're going to get out of it, feed themselves and pay their rent and bills. I'm asking you to think about it. I find this situation today unworthy of men and women politicians who claim to take their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u163	Anyone else asking for the floor? Mr Anseuw, you can still have the floor as a speaker for your group, not as the author of the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u164	Mr President, I shall reply briefly to a few points. I find it strange that some groups are apparently afraid to put that question to the Court of Auditors. They conceal this by drawing up a smokescreen here, for example by starting to talk about the substance of the matter, or by throwing accusations around like one group was a little more cultural than the other. I find that fear strange, as it is our responsibility to make well-thought-out decisions. With what is now in store, the door is opened wide open to an artist's statute. Mrs Vanrobaeys, that is not a temporary measure. You may only open the door temporarily, but whoever enters it will be in it forever and ever. Mr Lanjri has already explained that the applicant must be able to demonstrate three artistic activities during a reference period. That's about nothing, it's negligible. Whoever's in it can hardly get out, even if the person concerned wants to. It's as simple as that. The budgetary impact of the proposal therefore continues to work for years, even throughout careers. The measure is not temporary, because its impact is forever and ever. I'd like to know why you're so afraid of the math. Perhaps the reason you know, as we do, that the budgetary impact will not be less, but you dare or do not want to say that because it does not fit in with your booth. However, it is extremely important to know the budgetary impact. I have already made a very clear announcement that I will also ask the Council of State for its opinion; that is another debate. If I had wanted to delay the discussions on this proposal, I would not have submitted the request on the same day, but I did so in all transparency on the same day. There is therefore no question of delay. Abstracting all the blameless accusations that have been directed in our direction, while we only want to make decisions in a decent way, regardless of whether or not we agree with them, I note that you are afraid of the result. That strengthens me in my conviction to keep my question. I therefore ask you to change your mind by supporting my sense of order. It's about our social security. It is important that we know the financial impact of this proposal. Making decisions as we sail blind is completely irresponsible. That is not explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u165	Everyone's been able to speak out. Some Members seem to be asking for the floor, but the Rules of Procedure do not allow that. If you approve another Rules of Procedure, I will apply the other Rules of Procedure. However, the Rules of Procedure stipulate that each political group shall vote on the motion for a vote for a maximum of five minutes. Moreover, it is not an obligation to hold an hour's debate on whether or not we consult the Court of Auditors in order to know the budgetary context. Anyone in favour of the motion will vote yes. If you're against it, you vote no. It's as simple as that. If you think you're gonna convince anyone else now, you're wrong. Everyone knows what he or she will vote for. If you want to make it all difficult, ask for a name vote. I would therefore ask you to agree with the fact that the groups are expressing their opinion on the way in which they normally do so in the case of urgent requests. [[Assent]] I'm gonna ask my two deputys to keep up with the count. I'm doing the group chairmen' rounds. I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this motion. I propose that the chairmen of the political groups vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, 66 Members support the motion, so the motion has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u167	We can now discuss the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u168	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u169	Mrs Lanjri, the question relating to the Council of State has not yet been formulated. We have now dealt with an order motion that was about the Court of Auditors. Don't confuse things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u170	Anyone asking for dispatch to the Council of State? That request must be supported by 30 Members. In fact, there is already a majority in favour of admissibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to ask for the opinion on the whole, because one is inextricably linked to another. The key here is the same as in the previous debate on the motion asking for the opinion of the Court of Auditors. By the text of Bill No. It is true that the door is very wide open by means of an amendment to this bill. There is a very strong influx into the artist's statute, but above all discrimination is created. That needs to be investigated. Today, artists, like all employees, have to prove a number of days worked within a certain reference period. The number of days is the same for each employee today, but this proposal would change that. In other words, one worker is treated differently from another as regards unemployment insurance. This requires some investigation and at least the advice of the Council of State. There is no point in adopting a law that would not later pass the test of the Constitutional Court because of great discrimination. Secondly, as Mr Lanjri has already explained, it is not really explained to people that they have to prove a few hundred days worked before they can claim unemployment benefit, but that artists should actually only prove twenty days worked. I do not know what makes them so much better than any other employee who can become unemployed. Because of the discrimination that is now being introduced, the opinion of the Council of State is not a luxury at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u172	Mr Anseuw, before I give the floor to Mr Laaouej, would you like to know whether you are asking for the opinion on the whole of the proposal? Amendments have also been tabled. Is this about the whole of the bill and the amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u173	It is about the whole thing that you are presenting here for approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u174	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u175	Mr President, I should like to receive a clarification of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Is Mr Anseew entitled to request an opinion from the Council of State on the whole or on the amendments that would have been tabled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u176	The request relates to referral to the Council of State for an opinion on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u177	I ask for clarification of the Rules of Procedure on the possibility of requesting a referral to the Council of State on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u178	Article 98 (3) states, and I quote: 'If a Member proposes that the President conducts this consultation in connection with draft laws or proposals or with amendments to those draft laws or proposals, that proposal shall be considered if 30 Members support it'. I checked before we started. "The President shall be obliged to request the opinion when the proposal for consultation concerns legislative proposals or amendments supported by at least 50 members." 30 Members must give a positive opinion on admissibility. If there is a quorum of 50 Members, I am obliged to seek the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u179	Mr. Chair, I would just like to point out that the bills that were subsequently consolidated to make one of them only received the benefit of the urgency. That was voted on. I would therefore not understand that the requested opinion is not also requested with the benefit of urgency. I therefore request that this request for the opinion of the Council of State be forwarded with an urgent request so that we can receive the opinion within five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u180	We are now discussing the substance of the case, the shipment. Each group may now intervene again for five minutes. Mr Laaouej has asked that, if we were to consult the Council of State, we should do so in a five-day period. That is not a full opinion, it is an urgent opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u181	The article to which you refer explicitly states that the President may request an urgent opinion within a maximum period of five working days. I think you do not even need the agreement of the plenary on urgency. I would like to put the same question as Mr Laaouej to you as President. The urgency seems easy to motivate. I hope that colleagues will be able to agree to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u182	Mr President, as I justified at the moment – under Mrs Matz' s sneezes – we agreed to a legal and accounting consultation as it was urgent, because this matter had been accepted as a matter of urgency and there was an urgent need. We are therefore in favour of consulting the Council of State in the emergency period. If we had been able to ask for the urgency period for the Court of Auditors, we would have supported this request for analysis. As it is impossible, we voted against this consultation. However, we are in favour of this for the Council of State. The laughs of those who know the sector less well than I do, I have nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u183	Mr President, I would like to turn to the chairman of the committee, who will be able to enlighten us. We have heard that Mr Anseeuw has asked for an opinion on the whole, but has the Council of State not already given an opinion on the whole? I want to know what we're talking about, 'cause you're making fun. We understand your goal, which is to block this file. When we voted for the cumulation of unemployment benefits with pensions, we did not ask for the opinion of the Court of Auditors and the Council of State. [[You're in the flabbus!]] I would just like to know how, so far, the Council of State has been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u184	Now you're going to cause a lot of surgeries. I think the situation is clear. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u185	I'm not gonna ask any questions. I am going to apply the Rules of Procedure. Thirty members supported the admissibility of the application for an opinion from the Council of State. That can only happen if 50 Members support it. There are two possibilities. In other words, the Court is in favour of an urgent opinion. That's five days, that's the marginal review by the Council of State. Either the Court asks for an opinion which it can have within a period of 30 days. I would like, if necessary, to present to the Chamber the possibility of a division. Are there any Members who claim to be in favour of an emergency opinion of five days, but against a normal opinion? The most far-reaching proposal is, of course, the opinion without a time limit. I have to put that to the vote first. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u186	You may sit here in the chair. What I am doing is applying the Rules of Procedure. Those are the two possibilities you have at your disposal, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u187	(...) I am sorry that we are getting involved in a course of proceedings. I read out the Rules of Procedure: 'The President shall not request an urgent opinion from the plenary session within a maximum period of five working days. In that case, special reasons shall be given for the request for urgent procedure." Those are the Rules of Procedure, which say that you can ask for the opinion in five days' time. In fact, a number of Members have expressed their views in this respect. There are also colleagues who would like an opinion from the Council of State, unlike our group. I am not even calling for social relevance; that could also be an element of urgency. But the plenum has declared itself in favour of the urgency of this bill. It therefore seems logical to me that you should now ask the Council of State for urgency, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure which you can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u188	The Chamber is now witty, Mr Calvo. I know my prerogatives in the Rules of Procedure. I can ask for that advice within five days. But if the Chamber is caught by a motion to refer the matter to the Council of State, it goes without saying that I am not going to prejudicate. Room's in the middle of nowhere. We shall first vote on the motion for an opinion of the Council of State without a time limit, and then, in secondary order, I would like to put the motion for an urgent opinion. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u189	Now I do not know why they want to discuss this further. That is the application of the Rules of Procedure, no more, no less. I do not know why you are asking to speak, Mr Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u190	If I am not mistaken, I have asked for a reference to the Council of State. I ask for a full opinion from the Council of State because it concerns a number of fundamental principles. My question is therefore to allow the Chamber to give its opinion on the reference to the Council of State for a full opinion. This proposal is not a mess in the margins.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u191	You're not adding anything to what I just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u192	Yes, I would like to clarify my question, Mr President, to allow the Chamber to give its opinion on the reference to the Council of State for a full opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u193	A full opinion, yes, I wanted to be the first to vote on it. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u194	I'd like to, but your group leader intervened. You need to know what you want in such a debate. One Member per political group may speak in such a debate. I didn't make up these rules. I'm just applying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u195	Mr. President, he was personally arrested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u196	Everyone's under arrest from time to time. Everybody! Otherwise, we can constantly invoke personal facts, and we're back for half an hour. Personally, I never mention a name. I think it's clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall first put the question to the vote. This is a full opinion. That question must be supported by 50 Members. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. Then we get to 66 members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u197	In addition, the President may, of course, at the request of the Chamber, request an urgent opinion within a period of five days. That is the marginal review by the Council of State, which we have regularly applied in recent weeks and months. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u198	I'll let the Chamber speak. (…): (…)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u199	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u200	Mrs Moscufo, I preside and there is no possibility in the Rules of Procedure to reply again. You're inventing articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u201	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u202	Mrs Moscufo, Mr Calvo has taken the floor for his group. (High protest) I will therefore ask the Council of State, on the basis of the consultation I have carried out, for an urgent opinion in five days' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u203	I have allowed both votes to take place, but the first vote actually made the second vote without an object. I was in the logic of the previous vote. I am correct, because the necessary number of 50 Members was reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u204	Mr President, I would like to make two points. Firstly, the reason why my colleague Leroy wanted to speak was because she was asked by Mr Laaouej to answer a number of questions. So I understand that today she does not understand why she is not allowed to speak. Mr Laaouej has explicitly asked her a question. That is why she wanted to clarify things. It was an argument of an order other than my explanation. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that 50 Members in the hemisphere want the opinion of the Council of State. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber say that the President may bring the time limit to five days. Mr President, if you want to put that in the hands of the Chamber, which in my opinion is not based on any article of the Rules of Procedure, you cannot do so with the approval of 66 Members. In that case, it must be approved by a majority. So there are two options for me. You decide, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that the President may request an urgent opinion within a maximum period of five working days. That's not up to the plenum. It's up to the chairman. That's your prerogative. That is the question that a number of Members have also asked you. There are also good reasons for that question. However, you cannot decide with 66 members that an opinion should be given within 30 days. We can't do that. Tell me on the basis of which article in the Rules of Procedure this could be done. The deadline is in no way fixed. If you want to put that to the plenary, a real majority is needed and not one of 66 Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u205	Colleagues, first of all, you keep your hands in the air and you continue to say, as Mr Calvo has said, that a colleague wants to come back to a number of things on the ground. I can't let you do that. We are not in the discussion of the substance of the proposal. Secondly, anything can happen. I was wrong about the vote that took place. If 50 members of the Chamber vote in favour of an opinion, it shall be acquired by law. I allowed a second vote to take place, which was interesting, but which was actually without an object. I apologize for that. The Chamber has established that 50 Members have voted in favour of an opinion from the Council of State, and I must accept that, Mr Calvo. You've been working on what I can do as chairman all along, but I won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u206	You set the time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u207	No, I don't set the deadline. I can do that, that is a privilege, but I do not do that in this case, especially after a debate in which the Chamber has spoken with 50 Members. I have to follow that and ask for the advice of the Council of State. This is not an emergency opinion, but an opinion requested by more than 50 members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u208	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u209	There is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that a proposal which has been given urgency cannot be submitted to the Council of State. We are talking about the cultural sector here. One can be creative in everything, but it doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u210	Mr President, I would like you to be able to draw the conclusions of all this brouhaha. I'm not going to be there anymore, I'm telling you frankly! I ask the question of referral to the Council of State and, depending on the answer, I may ask for a suspension of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u211	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u212	Mrs Leroy, you have no right to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u213	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u214	That's enough! I shall end the discussion and turn to the next point! I made a mistake having to vote a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u215	Mr President, I have asked for clarification of the Rules of Procedure. This is the least that a group leader can ask for in the meeting. He asks you to do so as President of the Assembly, with the support of the Registrar if necessary. I would like to know if we can still ask the Council of State for an opinion when it has already been asked in committee for an opinion. [[...]] Mrs Lanjri, I am not speaking to you, but to Mr President. I just want my question answered. Moreover, with all the hustle and bustle that took place, I don't even know what the result of the second vote was. As a group leader, I can ask the president what this result has been.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u216	Your statement does not change the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u217	No, should I give you other proposals that have been sent to the Council of State very recently from the plenary? One can always ask for the opinion of the Council of State in plenary. Well, that's for sure, isn't it? Even if I had to vote on one and the other, I wouldn't be forced to do anything. The Chamber has spoken out, and I say it for the last time now, by a sufficient majority of 50 Members, to ask for an opinion from the Council of State on the proposal before us. I will deliver that to the Council of State and we will now proceed with the discussion of the bill of colleagues Goblet... [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u218	Mr Laaouej, there were two votes. The first vote was without urgency and the vote obtained more than 50 votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u219	And you're not asking for an emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u220	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u221	Mr President, I would ask for a suspension of the sitting for the time necessary to solve the procedural problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-18-55-plenair-ip045x.u222	I'm going to make it very clear what's going on here. Then you may request suspension for as long as you wish. I repeat, there was no majority to ask for the opinion of the Court of Auditors. For this, the Chamber had to rule by a simple majority. We are then in a debate about an opinion request to the Council of State. It's possible. That could be about amendments. That could be about the text of the bill, about totality. Mr Anseuw has said: I am asking about the whole thing. Then a discussion began about a five-day period or within normal time. Mr Anseuw said: I am asking for a full period of time, because an urgent opinion of five days is not a full opinion. I voted in the main order, because that is the most far-reaching, about the advice within a normal time frame. The quorum of 50 votes was obtained. At that time, the opinion was obtained from the Council of State. Then I had another vote on a possible opinion within five days, but that was without object, as there were 66 votes in favour of the previous vote. If the Chamber decides to ask for that opinion by means of 66 votes, I, as President, am obliged to ask for that opinion. Now I want to arrange a suspension for as long as you want, but that is the application of the Rules of Procedure. No more or no less than that. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 18, 2020 at 8:00 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 June 2020 at 8 p.m.
