ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, normally oaths take place in the plenary room, where we are going to listen to Mrs Wilmès' government statement. However, for practical reasons, the oaths will take place in this room, the former International Hall, which has been renamed room Jacques Brel. Maybe that speaks to the imagination. Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister." Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that the member of the House of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or Secretary of State of the Federal Government or as a result of his election as Minister or Secretary of State of a Regional or Community Government shall be replaced by the first alternate in good order of the list on which he was elected. Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incompetences and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that a member of the Chamber of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government or his election as Minister or State Secretary of a regional or community government shall be replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which he was elected. We must therefore take the admission and swearing-in of these alternates. We must therefore proceed with the admission and swearing-in of those successors. These are the following alternates: - Ms Nathalie Gilson, alternate of the MR list for the electoral district of Brussels-Capital, replacing Ms Sophie Wilmès; - Mr. Sammy Mahdi, alternate of the CD&V list for the electoral district of Flemish Brabant, replacing Mr. Koen Geens; - Ms. Tania De Jonge, alternate of the Open Vld list of the electoral district of East Flanders, replacing Mr. Alexander De Croo; - Mr. Christophe Bombled, alternate of the MR list for the electoral district of Namur province, replacing Mr. David Clarinval; - Mr Bram Delvaux, alternate of the Open Vld list of the electoral district of the Flemish Brabant, replacing Mrs Maggie De Block; - Mr Mathieu Bihet, alternate of the MR list for the electoral district of the province of Liège, replacing Mr Daniel Bacquelaine; - Ms Isabelle Galant, alternate of the MR list for the electoral district of the province of Hainaut, replacing Ms Marie-Christine Marghem; - Mr. Benoît Friart, alternate of the MR list for the electoral district of the province of Hainaut, replacing Mr. Denis Ducrame; - Ms Bercy Slegers, alternate of the CD&V list of the electoral district of the province of West Flanders, replacing Ms Nathalie Muylle; - Mrs Magali Dock, alternate of the MR list of the electoral district of the province of Liège, replacing Mr Philippe Goffin. These are: - Ms Nathalie Gilson, successor to the MR list of the Brussels-Capital constituency, in place of Ms Sophie Wilmès; - Mr Sammy Mahdi, successor to the Flemish-Brabant constituency's CD&V list, in place of Mr Koen Geens; - Ms Tania De Jonge, successor to the Open Vld list of the East Flanders constituency, in place of Mr Alexander De Croo; - Mr Christophe Bombled, successor to the MR list of the Namur constituency, in place of Mr David Clarinval; - Mr Bram Delvaux, successor to the Open Vld list of the Flemish-Brabant constituency, in place of Mrs Maggie De Block; - Mr Mathieux Bihet, successor to the Liege's MR list, in place of Mr Daniel Bacquelaine; - Ms Isabelle Galant, successor to the MR list of the Hainaut constituency, in place of Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem; - Mr Benoît Friart, successor to the MR list of the Hainaut constituency, in place of Mr Denis Ducarme; - Ms Bercy Slegers, successor to the West Flanders constituency' CD&V list, replacing Ms Nathalie Muylle; - Mrs Magali Dock, successor to the Liege constituency's MR list, in place of Mr Philippe Goffin. The credentials of these alternates were validated in our meeting on June 20, 2019. The credentials of these successors were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of these substitutes to serve as a member of the House of Representatives in place of the members appointed by the King as Minister and during the term of their duties. I therefore propose that these successors be allowed to sit as members of the Chamber of Representatives in place of the members appointed by the King as minister and for as long as the term of office of the President of the Parliament lasts. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I would point out that the members elected by the electoral colleges in the French-speaking region are members of the French linguistic group and the members elected by the electoral colleges in the Dutch-speaking region are members of the Dutch linguistic group. I would remind you that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the French language area are part of the French language group and that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the Dutch language area are part of the Dutch language group. I would point out that the Members elected by the electoral college of the arrondissement of Brussels are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive. I would remind you that the elected representatives of the people of the Brussels district are part of the Dutch or French language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in Dutch or in French. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." After this lengthy introduction, which I am obliged to read out so that you could take an oath in a lawful manner, I will now ask colleagues to take the oath. I ask Ms. Nathalie Gilson to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Nathalie Gilson to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u3	Nathalie Gilson will be a member of the French linguistic group. Ms. Nathalie Gilson will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr. Sammy Mahdi to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr Sammy Mahdi to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u4	Mr. Sammy Mahdi will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mr Sammy Mahdi will be part of the Dutch language group. I ask Ms. Tania De Jonge to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Tania De Jonge to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u5	Ms Tania De Jonge will be a member of the Dutch language group. Ms Tania De Jonge will be part of the Dutch language group. I ask Mr Christophe Bombled to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Christophe Bombled to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u6	Christophe Bombled will be part of the French linguistic group. Mr Christophe Bombled will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr Bram Delvaux to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Bram Delvaux to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u7	Mr Bram Delvaux will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mr Bram Delvaux will be part of the Dutch language group. I ask Mr Mathieu Bihet to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Mathieu Bihet to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u8	Mathieu Bihet will be part of the French linguistic group. Mr Mathieu Bihet will be part of the French language group. I ask Mrs Isabelle Galant to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Isabelle Galant to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u9	Isabelle Galant will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mrs Isabelle Galant will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr. Benoît Friart to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Benoît Friart to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u10	Mr. Benoît Friart will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Benoît Friart will be part of the French language group. I ask Mrs Bercy Slegers to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Bercy Slegers to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u11	Ms Bercy Slegers will be part of the Dutch language group. Ms Bercy Slegers will be part of the Dutch language group. I ask Mrs Magali Dock to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Magali Dock to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u12	Magali Dock will be part of the French language group. Mrs Magali Dock will be part of the French language group. This brings us to the end of these oaths. I wish you all the best of luck. We are experiencing difficult, turbulent political times, but I am convinced that we will soon become very good colleagues and work together dance l'intérêt général.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-17-55-plenair-ip028x.u13	Veel succeeds. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 17 March 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
