ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an extraordinary meeting of our committee today, because last week there was a Security Council scheduled, so that the Minister could not be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed a guest in this committee for a moment because it is a busy day for you, Madam Minister. This morning you received a symbolic envelope from the trade unions concerning the benefits. The social problem is more topical than ever. Millennium goals came up with the poverty rates, which are rising in more and more municipalities in Flanders. The energy bill is an important part of the poverty problem. We know that an agreement was reached in October 2018 by Mr Peeters, the then Minister of Economy, in the presence of his colleague Marghem van Energie. It was a gesture of the gentilless and collégialité of Mr Peeters, Mrs Marghem said, but with my follow-up question she specifically referred me to you. People needed to understand more about their consumption, the cost and the modalities of their contract, so that they knew exactly how the invoice was split up and so on. This simplification had to be completed by 1 March 2019. However, statements by the Flemish Minister of Energy in April 2019, Ms Lydia Peeters, showed that the period of ongoing cases of the federal government has prevented the further implementation of the agreement, which is a simplification of the energy bill. Can you confirm that the October 2018 agreement to simplify the energy bill could not be fully implemented? What aspects of the agreement still need to be implemented if necessary? What major legislative changes are needed for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u3	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, people who are often present in this committee know that ping-pong is not my custom. I am somewhat surprised at your introduction and the fact that Mr Marghem places responsibility on me. It is true that little has been done in terms of the simplification of the energy bill, but in order to achieve this simplification, the law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Royal Decree of 3 April 2003 on the invoicing of electricity and gas should be amended at federal level. At the end of 2018, my predecessor, in cooperation with the administration, prepared a joint declaration for simplification. Because we also see the need for things to happen there, my cabinet acted as a moderator to set things in motion and to arrive at that simplified invoice from our Consumer Protection section. There has also been a joint statement with Mr Marghem, but as Minister of Consumer Affairs I cannot amend that law. It is the Minister for Energy, the Environment and Sustainable Development who must do so. I can tell you that we put the same concern on the table of the current government negotiations as in 2018. There will also be something in the text, and I really hope that the new Energy Minister will do so, because every day we identify the need for this simplification with regard to consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clarification. It is a pity that there is indeed a ping-pong game. I'm grateful to you for quoting those two laws. This is indeed a matter for your colleague. I hope that the new coalition agreement will include passages on this, because it is necessary. Soon I will be questioning you about another aspect, namely the code of conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u5	Mr Van Lommel is not present; his question cannot be converted into a written question, since Mr Prévot is present to put his question. Mr Prévot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u6	Minister, according to the latest estimates from one of the world's credit insurance leaders, no less than 11,490 Belgian companies could be declared bankrupt this year and 11,680 companies next year, more than 23,000 bankruptcies expected by the end of 2021, representing a 10% increase compared to the pre-crisis situation in 2019. More than 76,000 jobs could be threatened. So far, measures to support the economy have limited the impact on bankruptcies. Starting today, however, the crisis of the VOCID-19 is turning into a real liquidity crisis for businesses. How do you feel about the numbers I just mentioned? How can such situations be avoided? Could you take the time to remind us of the measures still in place to support our companies in difficulty? Finally, in the negotiations for the formation – which we hope to be quick – of a full-fledged government, have you heard of any further steps that could be taken to save these companies? If so, could you tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u7	Mr Prévot, you will excuse me for answering in both languages, because I have also answered Mr. Van Lommel. Many companies that, until recently, were healthy now suffer very strongly as a result of the coronavirus crisis. This government has temporarily assisted them, in order to best overcome this difficult period with necessary but temporary protection against seizures and bankruptcies. Statbel published his figures on bankruptcies in Belgium last week. In August 2020 a total of 382 companies were declared bankrupt. The main affected sectors with the largest number of bankruptcies are transport, commerce, catering and construction. At regional level there were 218 bankruptcies in Flanders, 103 bankruptcies in Wallonia and 61 bankruptcies in Brussels. This government, as well as the federated entities, have taken many essential steps to help businesses and self-employed people facing economic losses as a result of the coronavirus epidemic and to maintain the purchasing power of citizens. The first objective of these temporary measures was to support the liquidity situation of businesses and citizens. Mr Prévot, I am convinced that a re-launch policy is urgent and necessary to put our economy on top and also to re-establish sustainable economic growth as soon as possible. This requires a government with full power, which also has the support of a majority of Parliament. As far as possible fraudulent bankruptcies are concerned, they will of course always be prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, this matter falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u8	Minister, the question has been tabled last week and, as I have just said, we hope that the government will come into being in the coming days; it is, in any case, an appeal. You share the same concern as me, and I hear your willingness to convince the next government of the value of a strong economic recovery, which will be essential to save our businesses. I will not fail to follow the situation closely, in the weeks and in the months to come. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u9	Mrs Houtmeyers, the discussions in the framework of the inter-federal consultation were in a constructive atmosphere. The various stakeholders in the dossier, including the regions, have submitted their comments and have agreed to the draft text approved by the federal government and submitted for advice to the Council of State's Legislative Department. As you know, this is an extremely complex and delicate dossier, which seeks to establish an effective and efficient screening mechanism. We are currently waiting for the opinion of the Council of State, after which the opinion will be examined jointly and the text may be amended in consultation. The European framework for the screening of foreign direct investment and the White Paper action plan on foreign grants are complementary. Both pursue different objectives: the FDI screening mechanism focuses on security and public order, while the white paper focuses on addressing distortions of the internal market caused by foreign subsidies. The white paper is also not limited to critical assets and is not necessarily linked to investments. However, there would be an opportunity to initiate parallel proceedings if a foreign direct investment took the form of an acquisition facilitated by a foreign grant and would give rise to security and public policy concerns. My administration will continue to monitor the European Commission's action plan and the possible legislative proposals that the Commission would put forward in the future. At present, there is no direct contact with the European Commission on the Belgian proposal, but this may take place at a later stage and on the basis of the modified draft following the opinion of the Council of State, where it is still at present. My administration, the administration of the Foreign Affairs Office and representatives of the regions regularly consult within the framework of the work of the European Commission's FDI expert group on the application of the regulation. The expert group shall exchange experience, including on the different national screening mechanisms already in place or in preparation. As soon as we receive the opinion of the Council of State, we will therefore consider whether amendments should be made to the text and then we will submit the draft law definitively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u10	Madam Minister, we will certainly continue to follow up the dossier very closely, as it concerns very important protection for our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u11	Madam Minister, I am once again here with a question on the content of the consumer agreement, in particular with regard to the code of conduct. At the beginning of July, you issued a press release stating that the code of conduct for the energy sector should be better respected. The application of the rules should be improved. More suppliers should refer to the energy regulator's comparison tool on their website. Furthermore, the general terms and conditions for half of the suppliers are not easy to find on their web site. Some suppliers are most likely to charge advances up to 40% higher than actual consumption. You said that you would address the energy suppliers, I suppose via FEBEG, so that they would make the necessary adjustments in the short term to fully comply with the consumer agreement. Madam Minister, the consumer agreement is quite unique in Europe. We are therefore one of the European leaders in the field of consumer protection. I am not here to fully protect suppliers, but I do not need to remind you that they too are under pressure in corona times, for example due to late payments. In addition, many consumer protection measures were included in regional energy legislation. So perhaps the problem is more complex than some people think. Madam Minister, could you explain to Parliament the report of the Economic Inspectorate, because that was the basis of your criticism? Have you already consulted with FEBEG in order to remedy the problem? Does the legal framework still need to be changed? In the Energy Committee, we are working, together with my good colleague from sp.a, to regulate the dormant contracts. We have received an excellent opinion from the CREG on this. I hope that my colleague will amend his proposal in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u12	Mr Ravyts, the Economic Inspectorate did indeed conduct a study between December 2019 and March 2020 of the ten energy suppliers active in the residential market who signed the consumer agreement. In the meantime, one of these suppliers terminated its membership of the Consumer Agreement on 1 July, in particular Octa+. Since then, there have been nine of them. The investigation focused on two elements: firstly, the specific provisions applicable to the website and, secondly, the application of the other verifiable provisions of the code of conduct through a survey with submission of evidence. Most of the deficiencies identified relate to the mandatory notifications on the website. No controlled energy supplier complied with all verified provisions. In some, the number of shortcomings was limited, while in others there were much more. The provisions that were least respected are the mandatory link to the tariff simulator of the regional regulator and the indication of the contact details of the federal ombudsdienst voor Energie. Direct access to the contract conditions for different products is also not common to a number of suppliers. As far as the other aspects are concerned, the overall shortcomings are limited. That is also communicated, because it is true that it is not a one-sided negative story. In the margins of the general investigation, the inspection also questioned suppliers about a number of other aspects, including the repayment period in the case of a credit note, the level of advances compared to the billing bill and the level of the flat-rate flat-rate fee. On these points, the situation is quite different. As a result of the investigation, I instructed the Economic Inspectorate to take the necessary steps to ensure that suppliers would fully focus on the consumer agreement. I also asked for a more detailed analysis of the flat-rate flat-rate compensation in the light of the provisions of the energy laws. In the meantime, there was also a meeting with FEBEG, the Belgian Federation, to explain the results of the Economic Inspectorate's investigation. The Economic Inspectorate is now looking at the nine energy suppliers individually to see what is happening, for example on the flat-rate fee. Until the end of this year, together with the energy suppliers, we would look at how the problems can be solved. If, however, it appears that certain obligations have not yet been complied with, then the Economic Inspectorate intends to intervene. Furthermore, there is also a European dimension to the harmonisation of certain commercial practices. If the European framework imposes this on us, it is possible that we will take initiatives within the framework of the flat-rate flat-rate compensation. We have found that several energy suppliers have already adapted certain issues by means of the individual approach. This concerns, for example, access to the general and specific conditions of contracts and the addition of missing links. Some progress has therefore been made since the Economic Inspectorate pointed out these problems. For me personally, the flat-rate compensation and advances are important matters for the consumer. We will continue to work on this and if there is no solution, we will act repressively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I agree with the priorities you set for flat-rate flat-rate compensation. We shall see what European harmonization imposes in this respect. It is important that the problem is followed up, including by the next government. We are working in the Committee on Energy to ensure that energy policy is as social as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u14	Mrs Galant is not present and has not registered digitally, so her question No. 55007726C shall lapse. Debates of the European Parliament 55007759C by Mrs Dedonder will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u15	Madam Minister, the Belgian Institute for Postal and Telecommunications (BIPT) published the annual report on monitoring net neutrality a few weeks ago. In a particular piece, a number of complaints about unlimited offers from operators are discussed in more detail. The Telecommunications Office has also mentioned this in an annual report. This is specifically about complaints about misleading terms within a mobile subscription when talking about unlimited data usage. There is, in fact, a need to comment on 'unlimited'. Of course, it's not exactly limitless. Often there is a fair use policy in the contract terms and conditions, or a volume restriction. With regard to these complaints, BIPT explained that they cannot judge whether this is correctly carried out by the operators, whether it is a misleading or otherwise unfair nature of claims about the limit of the data volume, while the contractual terms nevertheless contain that term fair use policy. In Belgium, the competent authorities are the Federal Public Service Economy and the courts and courts. If the various unlimited subscriptions are compared, unlimited use is made by mobile data operators ranging from 750 megabytes per month, which is not excessive, to even 3 gigabytes per month, which is still not unlimited, but is already very difficult to cross in practice. From when can an operator really speak legally of unlimited? Which fair use policy can they use to offer unlimited data consumption? What rules apply when this limit is exceeded? Is this fair use policy in accordance with the Commercial Practices Act? Could you, by analogy with the previous problem of waiting a long time for customer services, also have a charter drawn up for the application of this for fixed and mobile telecom operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u16	Indeed, the telecoms law does not define or define the term unlimited or fair use policy. Under the rules contained in the Economic Law Code, it is possible to verify that telecom operators comply with the rules on fair commercial practices in their offers. When the Economic Inspectorate conducts an investigation in this respect, it will have to take into account all the circumstances of the case. Therefore, it cannot be said in a general way when the use of the term "unlimited" or fair use policy constitutes an unfair commercial practice. "Unlimited" often means that the download rate is reduced if the consumption limit is exceeded. It is important that the consumer is informed about this limit and the essential conditions of use in a clear, clear and sufficiently prominent manner before signing a contract. The Economic Law Code does not prevent companies from applying different conditions. Although the FPS Economy receives few reports on this issue, the discussion can certainly be started with the telecom operators and the BIPT. I've ordered my administration to look into this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is good to hear that something can happen to the problem. After all, if the limit is quite low and the consumer exceeds that limit, he or she will soon have to pay a lot to buy extra data usage. The price is often quite a lot higher and in that case the consumer does not have the right subscription. However, consumers often do very little to change their subscription.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u18	Madam Minister, the reason for my question was an investigation by the FSMA, which shows that during the corona crisis several insurers wrongly adjusted the fine print of their travel cancellation insurance so that they do not have to pay out customers. In that investigation it was found that some players only very recently, even during the corona crisis, began to adjust the general terms and conditions of the policies. Those adjustments had a clear connection to the corona crisis. The FSMA has also found that some insurers, for example on their website under the heading "Questions and Answers on the Corona Crisis', make quite straightforward mention that damages are excluded from cover if they are the result of an epidemic, whereas such exclusion is not mentioned in the general terms and conditions. Such statements could discourage customers from asking for a refund, while a substantial premium is normally paid for cancellation insurance. The number of companies that cover a cancellation due to an epidemic is still limited, but it is unheard of that in these times, which are difficult for everyone, such things occur. Firstly, in how many cases were the general conditions of the insurance unfairly adjusted? Secondly, in how many cases was there wrong and misleading information to consumers? Thirdly, and finally, how did these findings have been dealt with? Do you, for example, plan sanctions and can they be communicated to companies to deal with such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u19	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the FSMA has established that two insurers have adapted the contractual terms of their commercialised agreements for new contracts and that they also apply changed terms to the current agreements. Such adjustments must be made in accordance with the rules of the Civil Code. However, the FSMA may not prohibit the insurer from amending the contracts but may consult with the insurers concerned on the procedure followed in order to ensure that policy holders are transparently informed about the changes. Comments have already been made on this subject with regard to one insurer. The analysis of the other procedure is still ongoing. The FSMA has found in eight cases that incorrect, unclear or misleading information was provided on the website regarding the coverage provided by the cancellation insurance. These were websites of both banks that offer cancellation insurance with their credit cards, as well as of insurance companies and intermediaries. The FSMA immediately asked all the entities concerned to correct the incorrect information, which they did without exception after the first request of the FSMA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. If I understand correctly, we are dealing with two insurers, one insurer working on the comments and the second is still in progress. The other eight cases you are talking about concern banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u21	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u22	If I look at this in the consumer field, many people may be involved or disadvantaged. It is therefore a good thing that these eight cases have been corrected in the meantime. I hope that we will continue to play the ball on this matter for a short time. After all, it is very important that people are properly informed. It is already difficult for them to know what they are entitled to or not. In particular, I will encourage you and the FSMA to keep playing on the ball as short as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u23	Minister, tracing is an integral part of our strategy to fight coronavirus. It is for this reason that the Ministerial Order of 28 July 2020 had the effect of asking establishments in the horeca sector, but also other places, such as swimming pools or reception rooms, to collect customer data (telephone or e-mail), which would then be kept for 14 days and which, of course, can only be used in the fight against VOCID-19. The guide to the opening of the Horeca to prevent the spread of VOCID-19, which is available on the Economy FPS website, also states that customers must expressly give their consent, so that those who refuse are denied access to the establishment. In practice, unfortunately, as many as some institutions collect data, so many others do not do so at all. Legally, some lawyers note that it would have been wise to require such data collection by legal means and not by ministerial decree. Another criticism: the royal decree does not contain - or would contain, I prefer the conditional - any guarantee of destruction of the data after 14 days. Moreover, this recording of customer data leads to a tracing that is not based on a regulatory database defined by Royal Decree No. 44 of special powers, currently in force, nor on the proposal for a law on the Sciensano data bank, which was passed only at first reading. Finally, restaurateurs are not sworn agents and, in this case, indirect agents responsible for processing customer data, let alone agents responsible for refusing access to an establishment in case of refusal to provide such data. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know if your services have statistics to monitor this data recording with the Horeca establishments and other collective places covered by the Ministerial Order? What awareness-raising measures have been taken to encourage horeca institutions to register data? Finally, should the rule that the person refusing to disclose his or her data will be refused entry of the institution not be relaxed, given the entry into force of the digital tracing which is planned for the day after tomorrow and which did not exist at the time of adoption of this rule?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u24	Dear colleague, in accordance with s. 5.10 of the Ministerial Order of 30 June 2020 on emergency measures to promote the spread of VOCID-19, horeca establishments must record the contact details of one client per table. This registration may be limited to a telephone number or e-mail address. This data must be kept for 14 calendar days in order to facilitate any search for subsequent contacts. This provision of the Ministerial Order implements the decision of the National Security Council in this regard. Contact information cannot be used for purposes other than the control of VOCID-19 and must be destroyed after 14 calendar days. Contact information may be requested by the competent departments of the federated entities in case of contamination of one or more clients by VOCID-19. It is the federated entities that are in fact responsible for what is called the tracing of contacts. Customers must expressly consent to this registration. Clients who object to this will be denied access upon arrival. The horeca guide published on the SPF Economy website only reproduces the provisions of the ministerial decree and provides a model registration form drawn up by the horeca federations. Through this guide and with my colleague in charge of the middle classes, I want to offer our horeca establishments as many guidelines as possible for the proper observance of the rules applicable to them under the VOCID-19. In accordance with article 23 of the Ministerial Decree, the municipal authorities and the administrative police authorities are responsible for the implementation of the Order. The services under my jurisdiction do not have the power to act in this area and therefore do not have registration statistics. As for your question about the compatibility of the provisions of the Order with the privacy rules, I refer you to my colleague in charge of privacy, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that it is the federated entities that are competent for tracing. However, the federal government, in any case as far as your jurisdiction is concerned, still has the task of reassuring the restaurateurs with regard to this mission, which is quite new and to which they are not accustomed. I hear they're pretty disoriented by this new mission. For example, the practical guide that was put in place on the FPS site is a very interesting and important initiative that has helped them to implement the necessary measures. However, I continue to believe that this remains insufficient when I see that many restorers are not doing what is necessary to collect the data. I hope that your successor will take the necessary steps with the federated entities to make them aware of this. It must be said that if the restaurateurs do not do so, it may not be because they do not adhere to the measures, but it is also because they are facing financial difficulties such as this that they need financial returns and that denying access to a person is very difficult for them. I hope we can work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u26	Mrs. Rohonyi, I understand your concern. It's also mine because I went to institutions where my data was not automatically requested. The police and communes are responsible for monitoring the order and supervision of institutions where the rules are not adapted. I have also met with the federations of the horeca sector to which I have indicated that, according to the findings made, many of them do not strictly comply with the order. In any case, the checks are carried out by the police. My role is simply to inform, what I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament 55008158C by Mrs Dedonder will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u28	Madam Minister, I believe that everyone has noticed that one of the few benefits of the coronavirus is that several traders and entrepreneurs who have not yet taken the step towards online sales have done so. Although there is a lot of information available on how to set up a webshop and on what rules it has to comply with, that process does not go as smoothly for everyone. I therefore have the following questions. Have you seen the evolution of online purchases since the lockdown in March? Do you have an insight into the evolution of the number of online webshops since March? Is there an evolution in the number of complaints about e-commerce and webshops? What are the main complaints in this respect? Which rules are most often broken? Is this a case of malicious practices, or is it a case of traders or companies who unconsciously violate the rules, for example through carelessness? Do these complaints mainly concern Belgian webshops or webshops operating from abroad? Were there more checks carried out proactively by the Economic Inspectorate due to the increase in the number of webshops? Finally, on the basis of this information, will you propose adjustments so that the main complaints can be avoided?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, my answer contains a lot of figures. I do not have the figures on e-commerce since March. According to BeCommerce figures, the number of online buyers increased to 7.5 million during the first quarter of 2020, an increase of 2% compared to the first quarter of 2019. However, the total of online spending has fallen by 8% to 2.7 billion. The negative impact is entirely due to the service sector, travel and events, which completely stopped. By contrast, the purchase of products increased by almost 20%, i.e. mainly clothing, books, household goods, electrical, computer equipment and food. The number of new webshops is not known. However, I can tell you that since March 2020, 4,766 companies have registered in the FBO with the e-commerce activity. For your information, we see an increase in this number of tenders from year to year. I have the figures here from 2016 to now. In 2016, 3,642 tenders in 2017, 4,960 in 2018, 5,352, 6.658 in 2019 and 6,600 in 2020 until August. So we will definitely exceed the number of 2019 this year. The number of e-commerce notifications slightly more than doubled in the first eight months of 2020 compared to the first eight months of 2019. The complaints cover a wide range of subjects: goods and services which are not supplied and which are not available or do not correspond to the destination; the supply of unsolicited goods or services; unwanted or misleading advertising; fraudulent practices; unfair commercial practices; problems relating to price or tariff; problems relating to customer service, etc. The most common infringements concern fraud, non- or late delivery and general rules on distance contracts. The Economic Inspectorate received 12,381 notifications until the end of August, of which 8,418 notifications concerned fraudulent practices. According to the reporters' statements, 5.427 notifications were made to Belgian companies, 5.728 notifications to European companies and 662 notifications to companies outside Europe, while 464 complaints could not be made. The Economic Inspectorate is committed to increasing the number of checks. It is now focusing on files directly related to the health crisis, such as the online sale of mouth masks. The rules on e-commerce are European. I therefore expect a great deal from the new CPC regulation that we adopted in Parliament last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u30	Madam Minister, I will read the figures again afterwards, but I can already tell you a number of things from what you are saying. With regard to services, it is logical that digital (...), but there is an increase of 20% in products, while the number of complaints has more than doubled. So there's "a disproportion." We must do everything we can to prevent the Internet from becoming the Wild West, where anything can be done online. It is good that the Economic Inspectorate has carried out more checks. This is very important to maintain consumer confidence in online events. The CPC regulation will certainly help. It is also very important for consumers to know where to deal with complaints. After all, I have noticed in my own environment that many consumers do not yet know that Europe has a consumer centre in every Member State. It is important that (...) because the number of official complaints is undoubtedly lower than the number of people experiencing effective problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament 55008423C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, in order to buy, build or remodel a house, the insurer certainly also looks at the medical situation. In this way, he knows whether or not you are at increased risk of dying earlier than average. In people with severe or chronic illness, the risk of premature death is statistically greater than in the average reference group. That's why the insurer is asking for a medical supplement. In the worst case, he can even refuse the balance insurance. He must always motivate his decision. Those who have ever been ill or still have a condition that is perfectly controlled, such as diabetes, often have to pay higher premiums. In addition to diseases, different insurers also adjust their premiums when underweight or overweight occurs. The premiums often rise to almost double, even when medically it can be shown that there are no health problems at all with underweight or overweight. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. In order to have the right to be forgotten, someone must have been declared cured for ten years. Madam Secretary, what is your position on additional premiums for diseases that are perfectly controlled? Ten years is also particularly long. What is your opinion on the position to bring the right to be forgotten back to, for example, five years? Finally, many insurers charge an additional premium at a high but even at a low BMI. What is your position on such premiums?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u33	Mr. President, Minister, people with serious or chronic illnesses often find it difficult, for insurance reasons, to gain access to property. Indeed, access to mortgage credit is usually conditional on an insurance balance remaining due. However, for these people, access to these insurances is sometimes denied. In other cases, the cost of this insurance is so high that the offer is kind of a disguised refusal. To remedy these problems, specific legislative work has been carried out under the previous legislature. Mrs Lalieux's proposal for a socialist law was first tabled. Then a plan by Minister Peeters was able to win a majority. These new consumer protection provisions were laid down in a law of 4 April 2019. In addition, a decree of 26 May 2019 modelled Belgian legislation on the AERAS Convention already in force in France. This order establishes a reference grid of pathologies and circumstances in which it is not taken into account in determining the premium or in deciding whether or not to grant access to insurance. Minister, about six months after the coming into force, how do you assess the application of these new consumer protection provisions? Is the regulation on the right to be forgotten sufficiently well known? Is it properly implemented by insurers? Has the economic administration monitored the application of these regulations? If so, what were the findings? Has it been noted that new criteria for the segmentation of insurance prices have emerged since the Act came into force? In addition, Test-Achats has recently drawn attention to the situation of people with diabetes, who are sometimes claimed more than 10 000 euros of surcharge for outstanding balance insurance. Test-Achats calls for type 1 diabetes to be included in the reference grid for diseases with a right to be forgotten in 2022. Have you been able to examine this proposal? If so, what is your reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u34	Mr President, in order to ensure that many people with a medical history could be helped as quickly as possible, we have the right to be forgotten in a first stage in the short term. We have opted to take over the reference grid from France, since scientific research has already been carried out for the diseases included in the reference grid. It is true that the general deadline for claiming the right to be forgotten for cancer diseases is ten years. In addition to the general ten-year deadline, the Royal Decree provides for shorter deadlines for certain types of cancer, because it is scientifically and medically justified for these types of cancer to say that people have cured more quickly. Other types of cancer take ten years to be able to be explained or require additional scientific and medical research in order to reduce the time limit. It is therefore not possible to reduce the general deadline to five years, since all the deadlines and conditions laid down in the law and in the royal decrees are based on medically based scientific data. This also applies to the framing of additional premiums for chronic diseases. However, the reference grid is not a static data. For example, it may be adapted in the light of new medical information. Like my predecessor, I intend to complete this grid further, in a second phase. In particular, the law provides that, on a proposal from the Federal Centre for the Expertise of Health Care (KCE), and following the advice of the Bureau for the Monitoring of Fees and the FSMA, the King may adapt the reference grid for certain chronic diseases and may determine the conditions and deadlines that must be met. Type 1 diabetes is one of the chronic diseases that certainly needs to be examined since many people with diabetes encounter difficulties in concluding a balance insurance that remains due to an affordable price. But I repeat once again that this is only possible on the basis of medically and scientifically sound conditions. I am not aware of any new segmentation criteria that would be used by insurers since this new regulation came into force. In any case, an insurer may use only criteria objectively justified by a legitimate objective, and the means to achieve that objective must be appropriate and necessary. In addition, he must publish these criteria on his website and explain them in an understandable manner. For example, the BMI may be an element in the assessment of the state of health. The Insurance Ombudsman has received only one complaint regarding the right to be forgotten, suggesting that the new regulation is being applied correctly in practice. Frequent communication between patient and consumer associations also helps to ensure that the new regulations are sufficiently known to, among other things, former cancer patients. The application of the right to be forgotten is certainly being followed. The Economic Inspectorate is not competent to monitor implementation. FSMA is responsible for overseeing compliance with the rules of conduct of financial actors such as insurance companies. The FSMA has so far received no signals that problems would arise in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u35	Madam Secretary, you say that the deadlines are all based on medically substantiated data. That is, of course, very correct and very good. For the BMI that might be a different story after all. I've seen a file on someone with a very low BMI. Unfortunately, that's part of the family. However, she also has a medical certificate from her doctor, which clearly states that this does not pose any risk to her health. However, she pays double for her contribution. That is quite a lot and not in proportion if there is a medical certificate that literally states that there is no problem at all. That is to make a pure profit on the hood of a consumer who does not actually pose any medical risk. A little more attention should be paid to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u36	Minister, I wanted to thank you for your attitude to the potential integration of type 1 diabetes into the baseline, which would obviously be a considerable step forward. You nuanced the need for scientific advice, but you showed openness and I wanted to say hello to him. Access to property remains fundamental for all Belgians, and the presence of a discriminatory factor – such as health – in access to property is obviously not conceivable in a democratic state, where equality is enshrined in the pinnacle of our society and our Constitution in general. In addition, we will prepare for a recovery plan, the construction and renovation of which are important elements. Also, anything that can facilitate access to property, i.e. access to construction or renovation of property, should be encouraged. Banks and insurance companies must also play a role in this regard. Madam Minister, I do not know whether we will have a government in the coming days or what your professional future will be, but as a more personal matter, I would like to thank you for the quality of your work, for the respect you have expressed for Parliament and, above all, for your presence in this committee and for the way in which you have always responded, with precision, humility and a sense of construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u37	Thank you very much for this beautiful tribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u38	Madam Minister, since May, the shops have been allowed to reopen their doors after a mandatory lockdown that we hope will never see again. In order to further support trade and bearing in mind that traders could still sell their stock, so that their investments would not be lost, the government decided to postpone the sale period this year until August. Our group was not really in favour of this measure at the time, and now it appears that the solder period in August was only a patch on the wound. Madam Secretary, do you have an idea of the impact of postponing the solders? To what extent did the obligation to shop alone and wear a mouth mask constitute a restriction on solder sales? Do you still believe that postponing the solders was a good decision or do you have any other insights into the current state of the crisis? What are the prospects for the winter solders? Are you in favour of leaving the solder period as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u39	Mrs Houtmeyers, I do not have my own figures on the previous solders compared to previous years. We didn't have those figures in previous years either, and I can only rely on the Comeos press release, which surveyed the members. The clothing chains would have accounted for 35% less turnover. According to UCM, there would be a global decrease of 20%. Only a quarter of the traders questioned indicated that they were satisfied with the past solder period, with a status quo or a slight increase in sales. Fashion Union conducted a poll on 250 fashion dealers. Of these, 70 % indicated that they had sold less and turnover would have fallen by 21 % on average. Overall, the figures show a decline, but there are also traders who have had a good solder sale. No official evaluation has been made of the shift of the solder period. Moreover, I do not think it is possible to determine the impact of the various factors involved individually. The corona measures in force during the first period, which restricted funshops, will certainly have had an impact. However, as has been said, it is impossible to assess the precise consequences. However, it seems to me that the duty of masking was not of that nature to influence the shopping and the solders negatively. However, that is my feeling, there are no data available to give an explanation. The postponement of the sale has come at the request of a number of organisations representing the retail trade and at the initiative of Parliament. That question was not supported by everyone. While a number of organisations advocated a shift of this year's summer solders, some also asked to shift the winter solders. Today I don't hear that question anymore. Solden are so embedded in consumers that sufficient caution must be shown when discussing the periods. A large sample survey among consumers can certainly provide useful information. I don't have any official information on the upcoming winter bargains. I have been on the ground a lot in recent weeks, Mrs Houtmeyers, and I have heard a lot of people. They are now fully ordering for the next spring season and I hear that the traders are very careful in their purchasing policy. It is good news, however, that many fashion manufacturers are flexible in responding to this and agree that only certain percentages should be bought, while they themselves keep a lot in stock to deliver more, once the sale takes place. In my view, it is a good thing that they respond to the situation in such a flexible way. I have listened to Parliament and to the sector. It was divided, even if a majority asked to postpone the bargains. I do not know whether the same question would be asked, should we then have known what we now know. Of course, it's a very strange situation. Let us hope that we do not have to ask ourselves this question in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your honest answer. Of course, these are not very good figures we have heard: 35 per cent and 20 per cent turnover and only a quarter of the shopkeepers would be satisfied. We will indeed have to be very careful and examine what we are doing with winter sales. The sector was indeed divided. With what we now know, I believe that a number of other decisions would have been taken. Furthermore, like Mr Lacroix, I would like to thank you for the interesting months that have taken place. I believe that you have given us a very good Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u41	Lots of flowers today. They're never given until the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dedonder's 55008564 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u43	Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you two questions about the coronavouchers. I'm sure you know the system a lot better than I do, so I don't have to explain that to you. My first question concerns the possible consequences of the abolition of the coronavoucher, which could only be granted for three months. Has the end of the voucher scheme led to an increase in the number of complaints? What are the main complaints? Are more complaints now received from consumers who do not receive a refund within fourteen days of cancellation of the trip? There are still a lot of destinations that one cannot travel to. Are you thinking of re-launching the voucher scheme? There is also the fact that one still cannot travel to many destinations, so the issued vouchers cannot be spent. As a result, the travel sector runs the risk that the vouchers will still have to be reimbursed next year. They will then have a period of six months to do so. Are you thinking of setting up a kind of voucher bank, whereby travellers can exchange their vouchers with the travel organisation and get their money back, but where the travel organizations can take a kind of "loan" from the government and borrow the money for those vouchers from the government, and then pay it back at a later date? Is that a piste being investigated? I would like to know your opinion on this. My second question is specifically about the vouchers themselves. How many vouchers were issued under that scheme during that three-month period? What value was that? Those vouchers are covered by the Guarantee Fund Travel. Does the Guarantee Fund have sufficient resources to cover those vouchers if the tour operator went bankrupt?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u44	Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your two questions. I have the numbers here with me. After all, you also asked how many reports have been received through the FPS Economy in the framework of the non-entry of the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020. It is somewhat difficult to give the figures. I have them here with me, and we will deliver them to you. However, it is difficult because my bill stopped in the middle of June. The figures are very high for June, i.e. 277 notifications received. After June we received a total of 47 notifications. However, I suspect that a large proportion of these 277 notifications were also received around the decision of 19 June 2020. That is why giving the figures is not very obvious. 353 notifications were received over the entire period, 277 of them in June. We suspect that there have been a lot of reports in the context of the application of the termination of the voucher scheme. That was the same period. Remember that certain companies once again offered certain trips, to work with a travel voucher the next day. This may also have been mixed with the reports we received at the time. The FOD informs me that these reports are mainly about not receiving the refund within fourteen days of the cancellation and also about the fact that only the voucher is issued, although the traveller should have the choice whether or not to accept the voucher. This is about the regime after 19 June 2020. You are aware of the European Commission's objections to a compulsory voucher scheme. They are the reason why there has been no extension of the regime, so that our country has avoided Europe's default. I also have no intention of reintroducing the scheme. According to the latest figures received by the Economic Inspectorate, 209.673 coronavouchers were issued for a total value of 351 million euros. By then, EUR 44 million of these vouchers had been reused. A whole pack of vouchers has not been reused today. I don't have any plans in the direction you're suggesting. An initiative to set up a voucher bank is not within my jurisdiction. In addition, I think it is desirable that the ball should be played briefly and that we should first know what the situation is in a year's time and how many vouchers were not used. We know, of course, that a whole package of vouchers has not been exchanged on the issue of guarantees and insolvency insurers. Because the situation is urgent, I have set up a working group to examine the problems of insolvency insurers in the short and long term. This is how they can play their part. It is no good to anyone that there would no longer be providers of insolvency insurance on the Belgian market. There are now the guarantee fund and a private insurer. This issue must be addressed by the government as a matter of urgency. Hence I have set up a working group with the Treasury, the National Bank, the FPIM, the FPS Economy, the FPS Finance and Assuralia. The working party met for the first time last Friday. In the short term, we look at the guarantee that we can offer when something goes wrong with those travel vouchers. Secondly, it is our important responsibility to consider how in future we can move towards a sustainable system and, above all, sustainable funding of the system to ensure that we no longer encounter such matters, and that the consumer is protected through the guarantee scheme and can make a journey or travel without any worries. This working group therefore deals with short-term concerns, but also with long-term sustainable financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. May I conclude from your reply that you fear that the guarantee fund will not have sufficient resources for the approximately EUR 310 million of unused vouchers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u46	The guarantee fund still has resources at its disposal. There's already been Thomas Cook's bankruptcy. There are sufficient resources, even if some players on the market go bankrupt today. You know the market, too. There's a very big player. If something were to happen to that big player or players, there is insufficient guarantee. I'm sure that needs to be looked at. A private insurer also belongs to a larger group which has been re-insured. In this sense, there are guarantees in place today, but they must also be looked at with a view to the future. A new system of financing is therefore also necessary in order to safeguard the insurability of the sector in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think it is very good that you set up that working group. It is indeed very important that confidence in this sector should continue to exist. Then there is nothing left for me but to join in the words of my colleagues. We may not have been allowed to work together for such a long time, but I thought it was a nice and very constructive cooperation. I do not want to say goodbye either, because everyone sees the lists circulating and your name is mentioned there, so perhaps we will see each other much more quickly in your capacity as Minister of Work, Economy and Consumers. Thank you for your cooperation over the last few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u48	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, we will keep an eye on the lists for the next few hours and days. We're all curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u49	Mr Van der Donkt is not present or is registered digitally, so his question No. 55008660C expires. Debates of the European Parliament 55008837C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question. Mrs Depoorter is not present or registered digitally, so her questions Nos. 55008870C and 55008927C expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u50	Mr President, Minister, two major pharmaceutical companies, Novartis and Roche, were convicted in France. As in Italy earlier, in 2014, they were jointly sentenced to a very high fine of EUR 445 million because they artificially maintained the price of the medicine Lucentis and played under the same umbrella as Avastin's non-registration for macular degeneration. This is the biggest fine ever imposed on a pharmaceutical company in France. In our country, the prize for Lucentis was negotiated through a secret contract. An investigation has been ongoing since 2014 following a complaint from Test Purchase at the BMA. Test Purchase has calculated that the loss for health insurance amounts to 200 million euros over the period 2009-2014 and may have already risen to half a billion euros in the meantime. Madam Secretary, when can we expect a verdict? Why is it taking so much longer for us than in the other countries? Is the BMA in contact with the French competition authority? Is there cooperation and information exchange? Can the information from France be useful for the dossier in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u51	Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in thanking the Minister for all the answers to our questions and for the seriousness with which she dealt with them. Minister, social security reimburses the very expensive medicine, Lucentis, but not the ten times cheaper variant, Avastin. With PTB, we have already calculated that it is possible to treat all patients with this cheaper medicine, Avastin, for only 7 million euros. Today, INAMI spends no less than EUR 94 million on competitive treatment. In 2014, Novartis and Roche were already sanctioned for playing together. They were fined more than €180 million. Recently, the French competition authority also decided to impose a fine of EUR 444 million on multinationals for infringement of competition rules. In our country, the Belgian authority's investigation has been dragging on for six years. Minister, how can this difference be explained without establishing the existence of unfair competition on the part of pharmaceutical giants? What is the Belgian authority responsible for verifying compliance with the rules of free competition doing? Could she have had access to this secret contract? What is the state of play of the competition authority's current investigation in our country? Where exactly is the bottleneck of the survey? Does the pharmaceutical industry exert some pressure? Is this due to a lack of staff? That's for my questions! Unfortunately, I can't hear you. So I don't know how I'm going to listen to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u52	Mr President, the French competition authority sanctioned Novartis and Roche in September 2020 for spreading derogatory speeches which improperly exaggerated the risks associated with the use of Avastin offlabel for the treatment of wet age-related macular degeneration (LMD). This practice has led to a limitation of the requirements for Avastin offlabel for the treatment of LMD and generally in ophthalmology. This practice has illegally blocked or delayed the initiatives of the authorities planning to favour the use of Avastin for the treatment of LMD. In view of the strict requirements of professional secrecy and the obligation of confidentiality to which AWC is subject, AWC is not in a position to provide precise information on the status of this file. The objective of the auditorate is to finalize the investigation at the end of the year. The proceedings before the College are expected to take place in 2021. Like you, I hope that the file can be finalized at that time. In competition law, investigations often last several years, both at the level of national authorities and at the level of the European Commission. The duration of an investigation depends on several factors, such as the quality of the existing evidence, the complexity of establishing certain infringements, the cooperation of the companies prosecuted and whether or not there is a requirement for links to the investigation conducted by other authorities. The number of staff that the auditor-general may assign to a file also affects the duration of an investigation. The context of regulation and infringements may vary considerably between European countries, particularly in the pharmaceutical sector, which explains, for example, why the conclusions of investigations carried out in France and Italy may be of limited use for similar cases in Belgium. Finally, it is important to recall that the BMA does not fall under the hierarchical authority of the Minister of Economy. It is an independent administrative institution whose staff are subject to criminally sanctioned professional secrecy. I hope, together with you, that we will be able to expect the work by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We cannot deny that it takes much longer in our country than in other countries. You give different reasons for this, such as lack of staff. Last year's hearing also showed that there is a lack of expertise in this field. That should not be allowed to happen if we hear what huge amounts of money are involved here to the detriment of our social security. We'll see what the investigation shows. There is nothing left for me to do but thank you for the work you have done over the past few months as a minister in not such obvious times, but always with a great deal of file knowledge and with great respect for Parliament. We may see you here very soon, but I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u54	Unfortunately, I had a problem with her, so I couldn't hear the minister's answer. I shall therefore refer to the text of his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u55	Mr. President, Madam Minister, over the past few years bpost seems to have developed increasingly offensive business practices. As customers, we are regularly confronted with them and observe some of them with caution. For example, I am reminded that prepaid bank cards would have been offered by tellers to unaccompanied minors under 16 years of age. Apart from the question of whether this is the role that a public enterprise must play, I believe that the opportunity offered to adolescents, and in this case adolescent girls, to obtain this type of product is an issue. We know how powerful these debit cards, which greatly facilitate Internet shopping, are also tools for over-consumption and above all over-indebtedness. Their use by minors has raised several questions in the past. In 2013, the bpost spokesman of the time, Fred Lens, assured that the bpaid card was reserved for adults and the company's website still indicates that it takes 18 years to obtain it. Minister, how do you judge this business practice? Do you have figures on the use of prepaid bank cards by minors? Have you been able to discuss this issue with representatives of banking institutions? Do you know if bpost has recently changed its policy on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u56	Mr Ben Achour, on the one hand, the bpost site indicates that the proposed card is a prepaid card whose only amount can be used. It therefore does not constitute an appropriation with specific protection. On the other hand, the same site specifies that the card must be purchased by a major person. It is also possible to purchase the said card for a minor, but it will remain in the name of the major identified at the Post Office. Therefore, only the major cardholder is responsible for the use of the card. Therefore, there is no evidence to conclude that commercial practice is unfair. I do not have figures on the amount of credit cards purchased by a major for a minor. Your third question, whether I have seen the representatives of the bpost institution, falls within the competence of my colleague Mr. De Backer, who's responsible for this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer that I find a little short, that is very cordially said. The minor concerned is also a relative and I can tell you that she has undergone a real commercial process to encourage her to obtain this card. Perhaps, she should have gone through a major, in any case, the commercial process, she suffered when she was only 15 years old. I find this completely unacceptable and I believe that we should be very careful with this kind of approach. We haven't had a lot of meetings since I'm not an actual member of this committee, but I also take this opportunity to congratulate you. I've only heard praises for you since I've been connected. Congratulations on your work! I hope you can sue him for the benefit of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u58	Minister, we had the opportunity to address this issue at the Economy Committee on 1 July 2020. It is a subject that I particularly care about. This is the preservation of old elevators. As a reminder, several pre-1958 elevators are at risk of disappearing because of the deadline imposed by the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003, which imposes a reduction to safety standards. However, there are many problems with the upgrading of these elevators. Recently, the Regions have taken initiatives, notably through the Secretary of State for Heritage of the Brussels-Capital Region, who would have written to you in order to request a consultation aimed at developing a strategy and a clear approach in this area. Your attention is drawn to this issue. In particular, you would be asked to extend the deadlines for the modernisation of historic elevators dating from before 1958. Minister, I would like to ask you the following question. Do you confirm this approach of the Brussels-Capital Region in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u59	Mrs Gilson, I have to start by apologizing, because I'm really not aware of the mail you're referring to. We did a double check, but I didn't get anything from Brussels. The issue of the postponement of the modernization has already been a recurring one since the publication of the Royal Decree of 2003 on the safety of lifts. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the owners of former elevators have already benefited, in 2012, from a considerable postponement of the modernization, until 2022, in order to allow owners and modernization companies to develop technical solutions that can reach the required level of security by maintaining the aesthetic aspect. But you knew about it. At different times, consultations were held with heritage authorities on historic elevators. One of the points of action was that they and the owners' associations undertake together to propose alternative technical solutions in order to facilitate modernisation. The SPF Economy can then discuss this with the External Services for Technical Controls (SECT) and the elevator modernization companies in order to validate these technical solutions. So far, the SPF Economy has not received a proposal. A new report is not possible until there is a serious proposal for alternative technical solutions. On 4 July, as I committed myself to this committee on 1 July, I sent a letter of awareness to the competent ministers of the federated entities asking them for the progress of the inventory of elevators with historical value and whether they were ready to assist the owners of these elevators in the modernization of the latter. To date, I have only received a positive response from the Walloon Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u60	Madam Minister, I am not pleased with your answer, but I thank you for letting me know that you did not receive a copy of the mail I referred to in my question when a copy was sent to the well-known Save Our Elevators association. But maybe she got lost somewhere, hoping she didn't. However, it is expected that the Regions will propose solutions acceptable to the ECTS while the legislation highlights the fact that an alternative method of risk assessment (the Kinney method) can be used by the latter, but they do not. In fact, it is expected that owners or regions will find the techniques that can be used while this is the responsibility of the SECTs. In doing so, we turn around in circles, which is a pity because, in the meantime, old elevators are destroyed or are enclosed in a concrete cage. I will end my speech by saying that the restoration of the old elevators, as was the case with the hotel Métropole in Brussels, which unfortunately went bankrupt because of the coronavirus and pedestrian, is much cheaper. Indeed, contrary to what you have told me, the techniques of protecting the old elevators are no more expensive. According to the information available to me, all these techniques (electronic curtains, etc.) In fine, they cost less than what is currently proposed for condominiums, i.e., among other things, to put the elevator cage in concrete. That's an important point. Madam Minister, thank you for your attention to this issue and I hope that you will continue to deal with it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u61	I also really want the file to move forward because it cost me a lot of energy. If the Regions do not propose the Kinney method as a solution, why not request it directly from the SPF Economy, without going through the Regions, so that it can submit this solution to the SECTs. So maybe we could move the case forward because, you're right, we're going around in circles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u62	Minister, the Kinney method is a method used by the U.S. naval force for risk assessment. By searching the Internet, we find a lot of interesting information about it. This alternative method of risk is already included in the original federal legislation. But, in fact, the SECTs do not apply it. They come to look at an elevator and they fill out a check-list where they check boxes. Is the elevator cage completely strangled? Yes or no? Of course it's not for old elevators. They therefore result in a result indicating that the proposed works cannot guarantee that the elevator no longer carries a risk. That is the problem. Several years ago, at a conference organized by the SPF Economy, it had been said that, if condominiums could demonstrate that the SECTs refused to apply the Kinney method, the SPF Economy could give them injunctions or take action in relation to that. In fact, I'm telling you, minister, I feel like you're going around in circles. I know people who have done work that the SECs still haven't validated. We're really going around in circles. There is an urgent need to find a solution to protect and save these beautiful elevators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-28-55-commissie-ic269x.u63	This was the last meeting of the Economics Committee in which questions could be put to you, Madam Secretary. I would like to join in the praise you have received from several colleagues. The committee secretariat has been able to cooperate with you and make arrangements. One can see which ministers have a parliamentary reflex and which do not, and that parliamentary reflex was clearly there with you. Maybe next week, you'll be acting as a minister again. We shall then see in which jurisdiction. At least it's exciting days. Thank you for your cooperation over the last few months, Madam Secretary.
