ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the implementation of the health measures taken by the National Security Council (NSC) and the role of the mayors. In this regard, I would like to congratulate the mayors, who, since the beginning of the crisis, have been on the ground and are adapting decisions that they have sometimes only known the day before. Some mayors apply rules that go beyond those prescribed by the CNS, such as the mandatory wearing of the mask. You have also recently called on the governors to bring these mayors back to their senses. This provision applies only to Flanders because in Wallonia only the Minister of Local Authorities can break such an administrative act. On the other hand, we all know that judicial and administrative sanctions will be difficult to enforce because of the lack of a legal basis. They are therefore likely to be counterproductive and to reinforce the measures taken by the CNS. Minister, if the governors in Wallonia are not competent to break a police order, have you contacted the Walloon Minister of Local Authorities? If so, do you intend to appeal these measures to the Council of State? Can administrative and judicial sanctions be applied within this broader framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u2	Mr. Secretary, we read that you called for the help of the governors to return the whistles to mayors who have imposed too severe restrictions over the past few weeks. Those mayors went beyond the limitations imposed by the National Security Council and the subsequent ministerial decision. The governors asked the mayors to return to their steps. But they refused. Mrs Thibaut has already explained why. I don't understand that very well. Being mayor, I believe that applying the ministerial decisions and translating them to the local level can be done perfectly in consultation with the chiefs of police and with a little common sense. I have always complied with the ministerial decisions and have not imposed any more stringent measures or relaxed measures. After all, I sometimes read that certain mayors want to relax measures contained in the ministerial decision. It can't be. The hierarchy must be followed in the current times of corona crisis. That is why I have the following questions. Can you confirm that the governors, including the governor of Namur, called on the mayors to call back the orders? Does the law allow the mayors to do that? Can you give an overview of the problematic orders and strict restrictions? Can you confirm that until 22 May 2020 the mayors were given the time to undo the ordinances?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u3	Mr. Secretary, you are the mayor of your own right. I am experiencing the current COOVID-19 period, as well as Mr Vandenput, as mayor of the seat. The situation has never been so challenging as it is today and will be tomorrow. I speak a personal title when I say that I hold my heart almost daily at what will be communicated that day. Let us be clear: expectations are often created during these famous press conferences. Following these expectations, the confusion, which then has to be resolved locally, is very common. One minute you may visit a residential care center; the next day the visit to the residential care center is no longer allowed. The Aveve may open; other garden centers may not open. A playground may not open; a playground may open. A food stand may open if there are no other food stores nearby, but define 'near'. And then there's the whole mouth mask saga, announcing federally that everyone gets a mouth mask. The expectations of the inhabitants of our cities and municipalities have therefore been created. After that, the federal government comes back somewhat on its steps and a half mouth mask, namely the filter, is delivered. Eventually, at federal level, mouth masks are ordered, which we should wait for another month. In the meantime, every local government has solved this problem and met the expectations of its citizens. We're flexible. Every time, we're righting our backs. We will be your ally, we want to keep getting those chestnuts out of the fire. You can continue to count on us. The letter addressed to the governors can also be seen as distrust, as a wake-up call for certain mayors who, in all conscience, want to apply and discuss the ministerial decision, which is not always clear to me, with their chiefs of police. If people are so flabbergasted and heard that you will take over because the local authorities are not acting in a uniform or straightforward manner, then I am speaking on behalf of many mayors when I say that we find this extremely regrettable. So my only question to you is what was the intention of that letter to the governors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u4	Mr President, I am obviously very well aware of this letter sent to all the mayors by the governors, since I am a mayor myself and I have received it. As other speakers said right before me, I must confess that I have not been pleased with this letter, because since the beginning of the crisis, the municipalities and the mayors have been working hard to try to stem this pandemic. They needed everything from the federal government, except for this reverence. When we read in the press titles of the kind "Minister De Crem reminds the mayors to order", we receive this as a slap. I think this was particularly unfortunate in the current political context and in the context of this crisis in the fight against coronavirus. This letter calls on the mayors to take stock of the orders and orders which are taken in addition to the measures provided for by ministerial decree following the decisions of the National Security Council. In the end, legally, mayors can take additional measures, even in crisis situations. This crisis situation is managed by the 2019 decree, which provides that, in addition to the measures taken by the federal government – which has the hand in the event of a crisis – the mayors may, in consultation with the governors, take additional measures according to the local specificities of their commune. That's what a whole series of mayors did. My colleague Mr Metsu referred to some mayors who took orders to ban visits to homes. This was done at the request of home managers. There were also, in my case, orders to cut down certain access routes between France and Belgium in order to allow for better police control. This was set up at the request of the police zone, at the request of the chiefs of corps. And then there's this problem with the mask. It must nevertheless be admitted that a large part of the population does not understand why the National Security Council imposes the wearing of the mask in a railway station. For example, if you go to the Midi station, which is huge, you must wear a mask. But if you're going to shop in a supermarket where you're in contact with food, then it's just recommended. Bourgmasters have therefore gone further than this provision, as they are legally permitted to do. Minister, do you intend to take action against these critical orders and orders? How do you envisage communal autonomy in the present circumstances? If you were finally to consider that the mayors have no other role but to apply the federal measures without adapting to local realities, do you also intend to relieve them of their criminal responsibility if they are unable to implement these measures, and take it on your own responsibility? I ask my second question in the meantime. Minister, you recently made an order to change the ministerial order of 18 March 2020 with a view to a gradual defination. Many measures are enacted in this document and concern, in particular, markets and shops, the reopening of museum institutions, but also social distancing from parking spaces. They are understandable in terms of principles, but difficult to transpose as they are given the variety of their fields of application. They have been taken without consultation with the local authorities and, in addition, call for important means to ensure their respect. But, let us recall, the mayors are criminally responsible – in their own name – for the measures taken to ensure the safety of citizens. You will understand, therefore, that these measures have caused a certain stir among the mayors of this country – a feeling that was even expressed in a letter sent to you by some of them. I would add that these provisions reinforce the feeling of many municipalists that they will be left to their fate with regard to the implementation of the measures taken by the federal government in a difficult time. In addition, the press has recently been able to show the significant financial burden that is being returned to the municipalities in the management of the crisis, particularly for the provision of masks. Minister, can you tell us what follow-up has been reserved for the mail of the mayors? More concretely, are concerted measures now being taken by your firm to ensure that decisions are in line with the realities of the field? Finally, are there any special means available to assist the mayors and local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u5	Mr President, I am so impatient to get answers from the minister that I will refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will now answer the various questions you have raised regarding the ministerial writing on the management and follow-up of the federal phase of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. On 9 May 2020, I received a request from the Walloon Prime Minister, Mr Elio Di Rupo, to clearly instruct the governors to monitor compliance with the federal measures. I also received a similar signal from the Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region, Mr Vervoort. These questions can be situated within the framework of local authorities that take occasional administrative measures that run counter to federal measures. Examples are the mandatory pregnancy of mouth masks in certain parts of a city and the admission of small-scale events under certain conditions. Since the announcement of the federal phase, it has been stated that the coordination and management of the crisis will take place at the federal level and that the measures taken must be implemented in a uniform and coherent manner throughout the territory. In order to ensure the unambiguous application of the measures, I have already taken the initiative, from the beginning of the federal phase, to involve the governors, as Federal Government Commissioner, in the coordination and management of the crisis. In the meantime, 35 consultations have already been held with the provincial governors, the High Official of Brussels and the Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region, so that they can coordinate the actions at municipal level. This consultation is based on reciprocity, as is the agreement between the governors and the mayors. In other words, local authorities can also ask for clarification or make suggestions about strategic and policy bodies through the governor. The National Crisis Centre was designated to streamline this information and prepares any decisions. The National Security Council of 13 May 2020 has decided to emphasise to the governors the importance of the uniform and coherent application of the corona measures throughout the territory of our country. Accordingly, a letter dated 15 May 2020 was sent to the various governors requesting them to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Ministerial Decree of 26 March 2020, which derive from the decisions of the National Security Council taken on the advice of the EGE. It has been clearly established that governors must act on the basis of the model of collaboration we advocate. In the event of an alleged incompatibility between a local administrative act and a federal measure, the governor must, first of all, act as a mediator vis-à-vis the local administration. If a local government considers that derogatory regulation is necessary, consultation may take place with the federal services, always through the Governor. In the long term, it is also possible to use the control provisions that are regulated separately in the different regions of our country. Only in Flanders are governors authorised to cancel a decision taken by a mayor under administrative control. In the other regions, regional government intervention is needed. In the Brussels-Capital Region and the German-speaking Community, a possibility of suspension is also provided for, in addition to the possibility of cancellation. For this reason, a legal analysis of administrative supervision has also been added to the annex to the ministerial letter. Given that the questions were initially asked by the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region – and taking into account the explicit request of the National Security Council, in the presence of the Ministers-Presidents – I would assume that regional governments will also play their full role in the exercise of administrative control. By the way, my services are available day and night to answer questions about the application of the various measures. The FAQ also provides answers to frequently asked questions. I understand, however, that it is not always easy for the different administrations to enforce it. The measures are changing rapidly and require great commitment and flexibility on the part of our local administrations and mayors. In spite of the fatigue which may eventually arise within the administrations, I ask that the ratio legis of our decisions, namely the protection of public health through the fight against the spread of the virus, be taken into account when implementing the various measures. This is not only about strict compliance with the measures, it is also a call for common sense. For clarity and in conclusion, this is a circular issued by the National Security Council. I wanted to highlight all these elements of response and intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear the important role of the governors as mediators. I think they're doing it right and they've been on the grill since the start of the crisis. I just regret that I have not received an answer to the validity of the administrative or judicial sanctions that can be imposed in this legal framework. Indeed, the wearing of the mask is not in the SAC laws. It is therefore a pity that I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I repeat once again that exceptional measures are needed in these exceptional times. The ministerial decisions were taken with full understanding after good advice. I'm okay with applying it. Communication can always be discussed, but I believe that the governors and mayors can work with these decisions on the ground, allowing them to maintain and control order. I think that is necessary and will continue to be necessary. Any deviation from that, permitted by local mayors or others, is actually not valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers, although I regret that some key questions have not been answered. First of all, the mayors who imposed the wearing of the mask under certain circumstances were perfectly in their right. Indeed, your ministerial order makes it clear that wearing the mask is strongly recommended in circumstances where social distancing is not possible. This is precisely the case in some shops and commercial arteries. As a result, the police orders that have been issued are not intended to replace your ministerial order but to supplement it. Your ministerial decree alone left the citizens, and in particular the traders, in a blur. By these police orders taken in the communes, the vagueness was finally clarified vis-à-vis the traders in particular. This blur is only temporary. That is why the 19 Brussels mayors called on you to clarify your position. This is one of the unanswered questions. I therefore believe that the mayors have assumed their responsibilities where you preferred to hand over the warm potato to provincial governors by asking them to exercise guardianship over the communes. Except that the second paragraph of Article 7(1) of the Special Law on Institutional Reform of 8 August 1980 is very clear, since it leaves you with the possibility of exercising control over the powers of the Federal Government and, in particular, in the context of the management of a health crisis. So I really regret that you have not taken your responsibilities in relation to this and that you are not deigning to clarify the federal position. Imposing the mask when respect for social distancing is not possible would simplify everyone's life and allow citizens to protect themselves properly. That is the objective that we must all pursue today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u10	However, I would like to respond briefly. If traders are unable to respect distancing, they must close. This is their direct responsibility. If you insist on additional controls, no problem, we will do them. So, if a trader – a baker, a grocer, a butcher, etc. – does not want or know how to comply with the legislation on distancing, it must close. It's simple!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u11	Minister, I do not think you realize how many businesses are in this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u12	My problem is that every trader is supposed to respect the law, like every citizen. If he does not, he is unable to open and must close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u13	Mr Minister, in public transport too, physical distancing is not possible and that is precisely why the obligation to wear the mask has been laid down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u14	This is a mandatory legal provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u15	The wearing of the mask was made mandatory because it is known that in these circumstances the physical distance is not possible to respect. It's the same for shops. Why didn't you take the same step for the shops?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u16	The decisions were made on the basis of the advice of the SEAM that you cherish so much. It was therefore the members of the GEES who decided that it was not necessary to impose the mandatory wearing of the mask. They insisted that everyone must create the conditions to respect the distancing of one and a half metres. Those who are unable to do so are therefore not supposed to open. It's simple!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u17	That is why I also asked you whether this recommendation could be assessed. Since it has been two weeks since the shops were able to reopen, we are therefore able to assess the measure, especially since the vast majority of businesses cannot observe this physical distancing. And, as a result, wearing the mask can be a useful complementary measure. But you didn't answer that question either. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u18	I'm going to ask for the permanent evaluation of the members of the SEAM. So far, their assessment is unfavourable to the mandatory wearing of the mask. You probably have some friends in the GEES compound. Inform them and ask them the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. A ministerial decision is necessary. I do not need to remind you that local politicians and their administrations are always very flexible and agile. We have been and will remain. We should be, too. In the meantime, we're at FAQ 13 or 14, I've lost count. I hear 15 is already coming. We have to evolve week after week, and we do, but we cannot deny that some things in the MB are sometimes subject to interpretation. I just listed five or six. Your letter to the governors and the governor's message to the mayors came a little unhappy: while everyone is working their asses off and wants what's best for their city or their congregation, it seemed like we'd get our fingers crossed. However, we are just trying to get order in the chaos of the epidemic. I wanted to give you that concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u20	Minister, I had no intention of replying. However, a small problem has been raised by my colleague, and I must confess that a question has been troubling me for some time. Indeed, I do not understand why social distancing can be respected in shops and not in stations. In doing so, the mask is required to be worn in the latter and not in the stores. Can you tell me what explains this difference in appreciation scientifically when, in the end, they are, in both cases, people who cross public places? You'll tell me a store isn't a public place, but it's still a place where people can meet each other and get in touch. Explain why social distancing in railway stations is not enough when it is the case in shops!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u21	To answer your question, first of all, I would say that some people are obliged to use public transport to go to school or work. Secondly, as far as stores are concerned, they can open, but this is not an obligation. Finally, the provisions in question were approved by members of your political current around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u22	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u23	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u24	Minister, the steps taken are the result of consensus. I know very well that the opinions of the people gathered around the table were not unanimous. There was, of course, a consensus. But not all speakers necessarily had the same opinion on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u25	Yes, but you mustn't "pump in the nettles"! Both the Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region and the Minister-President of the Walloon Region were present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u26	And around this table, everyone agreed on the opening of schools! It's well known!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u27	Apparently, there was no disagreement about wearing the mask and the conditions that were set.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u28	I have more echoes, minister. But I wasn't around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u29	As far as I'm concerned, I'm just supposed to enforce the decisions that have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u30	Minister, you are sending me back to members of my party who were around this table, but you are not answering my simple question: why have you imposed the wearing of the mask in the stations and not in the shops?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u31	Shops are not subject to compulsory opening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u32	People still have to eat, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u33	No one is obliged to go to shops where distancing is not respected. The choice of going there is free. This is the whole philosophy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u34	At a station, distancing cannot be respected. It's a small station. They're phone booths then, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u35	No, I repeat. People, who have no other means, must take public transport to go to schools or to the workplace. That's how things were designed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u36	I don't think that's convincing. I'm so sorry. I don't think I'm the only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u37	Talk to the people you need to talk to!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u38	You can imagine that it was done, for my part. But you are the Minister of the Interior and I am a member of the committee. So I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u39	I advise you to speak to the Minister-President whom you know very well After approval of this measure, he has not given any negative opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u40	Minister, the start of the federal crisis management phase was a good thing. It ensured consistency of decision-making across the country. Otherwise, the mayors would have continued to be left to themselves, to have to make often very important decisions, because they concern the health of people, without being able to rely on the advice of experts at the medical level, with the obvious risk of making inappropriate decisions. I am a great advocate of communal autonomy. I've been a mayor myself for a little over thirteen years. But when the federal crisis management phase is set in motion, the common sense is to enforce the recommended or imposed measures, which are set out in a ministerial order. We are not in a contest where the mayor of the year should be appointed, who would have taken the most restrictive measures in relation to the management of the health crisis. On the contrary, let us not add confusion to the difficulty. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u41	Mr President, in support of what my colleague Christophe Bombled has just said, I would like to point out that every mayor has taken decisions in the right direction, according to his realities on the ground. There is therefore no question for the MR to point fingers at one or the other person in his or her position. However, a more restrictive measure taken in an surrounding municipality increases and complicates the work of the mayor, who strictly respects the terms of the ministerial decree. Thus, the ministerial decree stipulates, inter alia, that florists must remain closed. If a mayor of a commune authorizes the opening of the florists in his commune, the mayor respectful of the ministerial decree must, for several days, justify himself to the florists of his commune, who will consider him a bad mayor. Another example: while the ministerial decree makes it clear that courses must be resumed in schools, a commune announces that all its schools will remain closed. The same situation will then occur: for days or even weeks, the mayor who applies the provisions of the decree will have to justify himself to the teachers, the parents and sometimes even the children. As you can see, the adoption of measures that go beyond what is provided for in the Ministerial Order can lead to complicated situations. Minister, you yourself acknowledged that it had not been easy for the mayors to enforce these rules, let alone for the police in the field. I now come back to the subject of the most reaction, that of masks. As a Member of the Committee on Health, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not the mask that protects the citizen most from the spread of the virus, but rather the gestures that prevent it. Barrier gestures remain the steps to be taken to ensure that this spread will not occur, i.e. limit contact, exit when it is useful and necessary, maintain a social distancing of one and a half metres and strictly apply hygiene measures. We must ensure in the exchanges that we do not re-launch a bad message to the citizens. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that there are 27 questions for the topical and urgent debate. If everyone asks his question, we'll be an hour later. The minister will then have to go to the nuclear cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u43	Mr President, I asked for 15 minutes more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u44	If we apply this method, there will still be 15 minutes for the Minister's reply, but certainly no time for the replies. That is why I propose that we proceed with the procedure of the previous sitting. The Minister gives his prepared answers to the questions, after which anyone can replicate. If everyone agrees, I shall first give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u45	Mr President, I would like to ask a preliminary question. Some members introduced a question, but do not attend this meeting. For the good work of the committee, do I have to answer all the questions? Yes? That's very good. As always, I will give an overall answer to the various questions. Those who need detailed and numerical information should ask a written question. You will receive an answer very soon, as colleagues who have already done so can testify. As the police and emergency services, on whose knowledge and expertise I have to call on to provide you with the information requested, are still to focus on their core activities in the field today, it may be that answers to written questions are somewhat delayed. Mr Donné had a question about police checks from the phase starting on 11 May in exit planning. As I have pointed out on several occasions, the operational guidelines of the Integrated Police Task Force are constantly updated and/or supplemented on the basis of the government's regulatory work. They support uniform police action throughout the territory and are at the disposal of the policeman or woman on the premises. Following the publication of the MB of 8 May 2020 amending the MB of 23 March 2020 on urgent measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19 and an update of the FAQ of the National Crisis Centre, the operational guidelines for the integrated police were therefore temporarily amended. I would stress that the enforcement of the measures is a shared responsibility. I am thinking not only of citizens and police forces, but also of all employers and owners of business. Access to shopping centres, shopping streets and associated car parks shall be organised by the competent municipal authorities in such a way that the rules on social distance can be observed. The police are also extra present in the vicinity of shops, with crowd management as assignment. The control of movements, with extended justifications, was embedded in the regular operation by, for example, carrying out alcohol or anti-burglar controls. In other words, when the police carry out checks in the context of its regular operation on a vehicle, it will also pay additional attention to the measures to be complied with in relation to COOVID-19. Mr Ingels asked a question about the methodology for debriefing in emergency situations and the lessons learned. The KUL study to which it refers is now almost ten years old and crisis management, as well as the crisis centre, have undergone a whole transformation during that period. The review of emergency plans, action sheets and procedures is a continuous process that my services were working on, even before the COOVID-19 crisis broke loose. During that period, there was also a strong commitment to modernisation and digitalisation. Those efforts will continue immediately after the crisis. The management of the current federal phase is part of a continuous evaluation. As provided for by the Power of Power Act of 27 March 2020, the Government shall inform the President of the Chamber of all decisions. In addition, the government reports periodically to the Chamber. Following the crisis of the March 2016 attacks, which was also managed with the announcement of a federal phase, a parliamentary investigation committee was set up. If this happens in this case, my services will of course provide the necessary support and full cooperation. With regard to the services of the Home Office, also following the 2016 attacks, an internal debriefing will be organised using feedback from all relevant services and governors to provide a global picture of crisis management. Finally, as in any other crisis, lessons will be used to assess what steps can be taken to improve emergency plans and procedures. In doing so, my services will consider whether they need to adapt existing emergency planning and procedures or add a new part to an emergency plan. In any event, if a decision is taken in Belgium to set up an independent Security Research Council, it is important to determine, inter alia, whether or not that Board is an ad hoc body, what investigative actions it can make, what the scope of its conclusions is and what the relationship is with any parliamentary committee of inquiry. Colleagues Vandenput, Thiébaut and Arens, you asked questions about the reimbursement of travel expenses between home and work. In the context of the VOCID-19 crisis, it was agreed to Committee B that federal public service personnel should be provided with an intervention in the cost of travel between home and normal work place by private vehicle. This was reflected in section 4 of the Royal Order of April 22, 2020, which provides specific measures for federal public service personnel in the context of the health crisis related to the VOCID-19 virus, applicable to federal public servants. A royal order taken under the responsibility of my colleague in the public service, Deputy Prime Minister Clarinval. This provision temporarily derogates from the Royal Decree of 13 July 2017 laying down the allowances and allowances for employees of the federal public service. This Royal Decree of 13 July 2017 contains in its Articles 63 to 67 provisions identical to those mentioned in the Royal Decree of 3 May 2007. It provides that a member of the commissioned staff – at his or her usual place of work and using his or her private vehicle to travel, because he or she is prevented or does not wish to use public public transport – may apply for assistance in his or her travel expenses. This measure will enter into force on 18 March 2020 and will no longer apply at the end of the health crisis. The said Royal Order of 22 April 2020 received a favourable opinion from the Inspectorate of Finance and an agreement from the Minister of Budget only in the context of an application to federal public services, public social security institutions and certain federal public interest bodies. For this reason, section 1 of the Order states that the Order applies to federal services and personnel in the federal administrative public service as defined in section 1 of the Public Service Measures Act of 22 July 1993. The Royal Decree of 30 March 2001 on the legal position of police personnel – the PJPol – states in Article 11.5.1er: "Without prejudice to any specific provisions determined by us, staff members shall, at the rates and conditions laid down for its granting to staff members of federal ministries, benefit from the intervention referred to in the Royal Decree of 3 September 2000 regulating the intervention of the State and certain public bodies in the costs of transporting staff members". In the meantime, the Royal Decree of 3 September 2000 was replaced by the Royal Decree of 3 May 2007 on the payment of travel expenses by public transport from the residence to the workplace of federal staff members by the State and certain federal public bodies. This Royal Decree of 3 September 2000 is still in force but more so for the civil service. The Royal Order of 13 July 2017 amends the Royal Order of 3 May 2007 so that it still applies to certain government services, but more so to federal public servants. From that time on, the rules of the Royal Order of 13 July 2017 apply to federal public servants. Since Article 11.5.1 of the Royal Decree of 30 March 2001 does not provide for the application of the rules which would replace, replace, amend or supplement the Royal Decree of 3 September 2000, there is no rule in Article 11.5.1 of the Police, which refers neither explicitly nor implicitly to the provision of the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020. On the other hand, the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020 has created a certain pattern of expectations for police staff, especially for staff who were faced with the same problems as the staff of the public office, such as the mandatory call, while direct colleagues could work at home, or the longer journeys that would normally have taken place with public transport. Given the complexity of the regulation, I believe it is necessary to carry out an additional legal analysis as to whether and to what extent the Royal Decree of 22 April 2020 could apply to police personnel. Finally, the new financial status of 19 April 2014 applicable to firefighters does not include any specific provision for the reimbursement of home-place costs. On the basis of Article 45 of that financial status, the rescue zone is free to lay down the rules it wishes in respect of the reimbursement of certain expenses, for example between the home and the place of work. With regard to firefighters who requested to continue to benefit from their former communal financial status, it was impossible to know whether either municipality had also adopted regulations by reference to the status of State officials. I come now to Mr Metsu's questions. Since 20 May 2020 it is again possible to move to and stay in the second place of residence on Belgian territory, where one is either owner or tenant for a period of at least one year, excluding mobile second place of residence which would not have been installed on a fixed place of employment. At present it is still not permitted to move to a second place of residence abroad. Travelling abroad for tourism purposes shall be considered non-essential movements and shall continue to be prohibited on the basis of Article 7 of the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020 laying down urgent measures to limit the spread of the COVID-19 virus. On the other hand, if a person is obliged to go to the second stay, for example for medical or professional reasons, he or she should be able to provide a plausible proof of the execution of that essential movement. Whether and under what conditions the person concerned will be admitted to the country of destination will depend on the rules in force on the spot. In any case, persons of Belgian nationality and persons with a main residence or legal residence in Belgium can always return to our country. As regards the validity of the action brought by the second parties concerned, the judgment of the Court of First Instance in Brussels must be awaited. The capacity of hospitals is a matter which falls within the competence of my fellow Minister for Health, Mrs De Block. Is there an increased risk of radicalisation during the lockdown? Social isolation and increased activity on social media and digital communication platforms by the COVID-19 measures can indeed increase the risk of certain forms of crime and radicalisation. People who only radicalise in silence and on their computer are extremely difficult to detect or track. Given the increased activity in various domestic and foreign extreme right and left fora, several actors in the security chain have taken measures to raise public awareness of the increased risk of digital crime, such as scams with abuse of the COVID-19 context and polarisation by extremist content, and, on the other hand, continuous and intensified monitoring of phenomena and forums on the Internet. The various security and intelligence services in our country continuously analyse the situation and the potential threat of the COVID-19 virus and pandemic on the criminal landscape and extremist groups. Those groups are trying to recover the COVID-19 virus and/or the measures to strengthen their narrative, their discourse, and to radicalise any sympathizers in their so-called camp. The analyses are used by the security services to continuously optimise the fight against the problem. The prevention of radicalisation, in the broadest sense, is a responsibility in our country of many actors and services, not least the regional and local level. At an early stage this is actually about the timely detection of problems of all kinds in individuals. In our country, it is mainly the local task forces and the local integrated security cells on radicalisation that make that detection possible. The European counter-terrorism coordinator, Gilles de Kerchove, comes to the same findings as the OCAD in the report on which the speaker is speaking. The European report is also based on the reports of the OCAD. At present, there is no indication of an increased threat in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to your questions on the problem of opening borders. M Mr Pivin, many consultations are under way on this subject. Discussions have accelerated in recent weeks both with neighbouring countries and within the European Union. On 13 May, the European Commission published a communication on a coordinated step-by-step approach to lifting restrictions on the Union's internal borders. The model proposed in this respect is to gradually remove all internal restrictions on movement between the countries of the Union where the epidemiological situation in those countries permits. As Belgium has been doing since the beginning of the health crisis, the European Commission suggests giving priority in this context to economic exchanges and urgent family and social reasons. In the run-up to the tourist season, the Commission also intends to examine how tourism can gradually be relaunched safely. For the majority of the countries of the Union, tourism is a significant economic factor, and I would say a considerable one. On a quasi-weekly basis, European Commissioner Johansson organises a videoconference consultation with the Ministers for Home Affairs in order to harmonise Member States' policy on this issue. Furthermore, as already mentioned, I regularly consult with my colleagues from neighbouring countries. Mr Demon, the current ban on non-essential travel to and from abroad naturally applies to the whole territory. There are no specific exceptions for border municipalities and therefore for the so-called common roads, one of which is located in Belgium and the other in the neighbouring country. This indeed means that a person who is on such a common road without an authorised travel motive leaves the territory and thereby violates the prohibition of non-essential travel. Having said that, I would like to stress that neither the travel ban nor its enforcement constitute an end in itself. The prohibition of non-essential travel abroad exists only in order to maintain the prohibition of non-essential movement on Belgian territory. This also means that the police maintain this ban in a way that takes account of its objectives. I will ask my colleague, the Minister of Justice, for a brief report on whether or not to keep statistics on minutes on the very specific situation of the common roads. Although he is not responsible for determining policy, he is responsible for prosecuting policy. I would like to address Mr Donné, Mr Verduyckt and Mr Colebunders. Both myself and the other members of the government are fully aware that the ban on non-essential travel to and from the territory has an important impact on the social and family life of many compatriots and other persons residing on our territory. We have taken this into account in the definition of the notion "non-essential movement', which has allowed certain movements to and from abroad for compelling family reasons. Visiting his or her permanent partner with whom one does not live under the same roof has therefore always been possible, even if that partner lives abroad. Whether such a visit is possible depends, of course, not only on the rules that apply in Belgium, but also on the rules that our neighbouring countries apply. Since the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg do not apply internal border controls, visits can be made to partners living in those countries in a smooth way. France has stricter regulations and Belgians who want to travel to France for family reasons still need to be well informed under what conditions France can do this. I am not going to elaborate on the classification made of the departments in France. The family reasons under which visit to France is possible are defined in a different way than in our country. For example, partner visits in France are not covered by that definition. As some of you have pointed out, I maintain regular contacts with neighbouring countries to identify priority needs in the border regions, and what problems exist, exist or may arise at borders. The government and the National Security Council consider, on the basis of public health impact assessments, the possibilities of relaxing border measures and possibly even abolishing them in the relatively short term. Mrs Van Bossuyt, it is true that the relaunch of tourism brings with it specific challenges. For example, there are the general criteria put forward by the Commission, which are based on epidemiological data within the different countries and regions of the Union. Restrictions may be removed between regions where the epidemiological situation is similar and sufficiently stabilised to control the likelihood of further spread. The availability, reliability and comparability of the figures that the European Centre for Disease Control, the ECDC, will collect and disseminate on this subject are crucial to our deliberations. A second factor, however, is the need to be able to ensure social discrimination throughout the duration of the stay. About the measures to achieve this, both during transport and during residence, the reflection is still ongoing. There is a need for further consultation on this issue, particularly between colleagues from the Committee on Mobility and Health. It is important, however, that the various control measures taken are evidence-based and do not occur on an emotional basis. For example, the ECDC has repeatedly criticised the relative usefulness of imposing health certificates, systematically measuring temperature and other forms of research. My colleague from Health may be able to inform you in more detail about this. I would just like to make it clear that this reflection on tourism is primarily about tourism within the European Union. The Commission has also launched consultations on a scenario for lifting travel restrictions at the European external borders. The audit is still valid until 15 June 2020. It must be clear that this can only happen once freedom of movement within the European Union has been sufficiently restored, or in some form of normality has come back. Colleagues Jadin, Zanchetta and Arens, although non-essential travel to and from our country has been prohibited since 18 March, it has always been possible to cross the border for a lot of family reasons. This was also the case with travel to pick up or drop off children in the context of co-parentality. Our neighbours also allow travel from and to their country, if they prove necessary in a context of co-parentality. In addition, Belgians can also travel abroad for other family reasons. These are listed in the FAQ which is regularly updated. These include: travel to provide assistance or care to an elderly, minor, disabled or vulnerable person; travel to a partner who does not live under the same roof; travel to perform acts, if necessary and cannot be done by digital means; travel to funerals and cremations; travel to civil or religious marriages; and travel of students, students and trainees to a border country as part of their training. We are currently considering the possibility of fully or partially lifting restrictions on cross-border travel. It is the responsibility of the NSC to make a decision on this matter, after obtaining the opinion of the GET. We should normally get this advice tonight. In any case, I can guarantee that with my colleague Foreign Minister Goffin and Prime Minister Wilmès, I will do everything possible to calm the situation at our borders very quickly. Dear colleague Zanchetta, in response to your question on complaints about non-compliance with family court judgments, my services are not able to provide the requested figures related to "child non-submission", since such a complaint cannot be filed online on-line on-line, including via the temporary counter "COVID-19". With regard to your question regarding the management of post-confinement complaints, my services provided a total of 6,332 complaints. This response encompasses all police areas. Since important research needs to be undertaken by my services to answer this question, I propose that you submit it in writing. You will receive an answer as soon as possible, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. Mr Vandenput, I come to your question on how to deal with transmigrants during the corona crisis. As you know, I have been increasingly in favour of an integrated and integrated approach to the phenomenon of transmigration. I continue to promote the provincial consultation with all the parties involved under the direction of the governor and the directors-co-ordinators. Private surveillance on the Flemish highway parkings has been consolidated and continues. At the end of last year I also asked the police to step up their efforts in the field of action. However, the focus should be on tackling trafficking in human beings and smuggling as a priority within the phenomenon of transit migration. In this context, last year, after an extensive evaluation, the transit migrant treatment centre in Steenokkerzeel was replaced by an offer of mobile support on the ground. This will enable a better connection to the judicial work to be obtained. However, the current exceptional circumstances lend themselves badly to an evaluation at the moment. Before the outbreak of the COVID-19 crisis, a series of meetings were held in the different provinces to further discuss and evaluate the approach with all the partners concerned. Once the situation has returned to normal, it will be re-recorded. In the meantime, I am constantly following the situation. If internal border restrictions are to be abolished throughout Europe, it will be a crucial moment to bring about the control of transmigration. I have already put forward a number of measures internally. In the period before the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, 45 larger coordinated actions were carried out by the police throughout the country. The majority took place in the provinces of West and East Flanders. Of these 45 actions, 19 focused on the use of public transport, 6 on bus and tram and 13 on trains and stations. In addition, 25 actions took place in freeway parking. In total, 221 transit migrants were apprehended administratively during these actions. On the basis of the results, several investigations into trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings were also opened. Mr Vandenput, you know that the government is making every effort to tackle the current COVID-19 pandemic in the most effective way possible. This calls for enormous efforts by the police in monitoring compliance with health measures. Major actions have therefore not taken place since the outbreak of the crisis. On the other hand, overall mobility in Europe is very limited because of the corona virus. This has an important and direct impact on people who try to travel to Britain illegally across Europe, and this applies both to South European countries and France and to Belgium. The Foreign Affairs Office, which does not fall within my competence, can provide you with the exact figures of the number of administrative reports actually drawn up. Despite a decline, I would stress that police interventions in this area are still guaranteed. In addition, investigations into trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings continue to proceed in full. So far, Mr Vandeput, my answers to the questions you have raised on this matter. Mr Colebunders, you had tabled a question concerning systematic testing in the assisted areas. As early as 18 March 2020, I made the necessary recommendations to all relief zones to develop a business continuity plan, a BCP, both intra- and inter-zonal, so that a shortage of staff could be met. The development of these plans could also have an intra- or inter-provincial dimension. The purpose of the business continuity plan is therefore not to close down essential or critical services or, if it is or should be closed, to have them taken over by other services, so that the service can be guaranteed. The employer, in this case the relief zone and not the federal police, must make this consideration on the basis of the BCP, assisted by the health inspector and the health inspector. Such a plan may, for example, provide for the possibility of redistributing operational personnel within a zone or between zones in order to avoid the closure of a post. An analysis of the acceptable risks in terms of the impact of a redistribution of personnel from the relief zones on the safety of the population should help to develop an BCP. Last week, the commander of the Rivierenland relief zone, of which Willebroek is a member, contacted the civilian security management crisis centre on the case you mentioned. Similar questions were asked by the Antwerp governor, Mrs Berx. All these questions were answered by the crisis center. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the aid areas which have not, or have not, done so for any reason, or have not, done so to prepare an BCP, so that such situations can be dealt with. The questions relating to the testing strategy and the definition of the target groups are the responsibility of my colleague, Mrs De Block. I can say that the testing strategy is developed by Sciensano and the RMG and is further discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. My colleague from Health is therefore responsible for this aspect. I also leave her room for specific answers to specific questions. In this context, however, I would like to point out that CELEVAL has repeatedly issued a negative opinion on the systematic screening of COVID-19. After all, this test is just a snapshot and does not guarantee that a person would still be negative when the result is available. Dear Mr Dedonder, I would like to address your question on the measures concerning the opening of shops. After the reopening of shops and shopping centres, the Federal Crisis Centre organized a survey of all mayors, through the governors, on the points of attention during the reopening of shops. This in-depth analysis has also shown that public space must be freed to the maximum in order to avoid congestion and maximize social distancing. In order to be consistent with the obligation to return the furniture from the terrace and not to use it, a ban on the use of all objects on the highway was also introduced. The essential distinction in licensing and organizing between markets and stores is that a market is made up of mobile units and that stores are permanent structures. In order to avoid congestion, it was therefore decided to allow markets under certain conditions, such as the 50 stall restriction. There was a question about a street party in Saint Gillis. On Sunday 17 May, around 20 o'clock, the police forces of the Zuid police zone were called for a street concert. There were about 150 people present, including the first ships of the municipality of Sint-Gillis. In view of the current corona measures, the police immediately closed the event. That happened without any significant incident. The Mayor of Saint Gillis was informed of the facts and took the necessary steps to avoid such incidents. I regret any incident in which the corona measures in force are not respected and in which people in the public domain meet in large numbers. As a reminder, the cooperation ban is still in force today. It is not only the task of the police to check compliance, but also for all of us to use their common sense and to respect the measures. Mr Senesael, with regard to your question on the application of the Royal Decree of 21 April 2020 with regard to the Internal FPS, I can tell you that to date, the FPS has not had to make use of the temporary provision to ensure the continuity of its services. No request for the provision of medical personnel has been made to the Internal FPS by public or private health-care institutions. Similarly, no mandate holder has been made available to the Economic Risk Management Group. There are indications that one-off exceedances of the 50-hour limit per week have taken place in emergency and civil safety emergency plants. At this stage, however, the Inland FPS does not yet have a precise view of these exceedances. To date, it has not been necessary to make use of the possibility of working more than 50 hours per week in the Civil Protection Operational Units. Similarly, in view of the limited occupancy of closed centres of the Office for Foreigners during the health crisis, no excess of the 50 hours per week limit was observed within them. The provision must be understood as allowing the limit of 50 hours per week to be exceeded until 31 December 2020. With regard to the Inland FPS, the functions of the operatives of the operational units and of the emergency and civil security units, as well as of the centres and the T-office of the Office for Foreigners, do not permit telework to be carried out. As for the last point of your question, I would ask you to introduce this question in writing, given the important research work to be carried out by my services within a particularly short period of time. Mr Colenbunders asked a question about the amount of fines in the enforcement of the corona measures. Infringements of the corona measures shall be established independently of the income situation of the offender. There are no problems I know of so-called wealthy people who think they are above the rules. There is no legal framework to modulate the amounts of fines in the event of infringements of the corona measures on the basis of income scales. In any case, care must be taken to ensure that the legal equality of every citizen is and remains in relation to the legislation, regardless of the income situation of the offender. That can never be a distinctive criterion. In any case, I should like to point out that 'it goes out' was not at any time an infringement of the corona measures. Even under the most stringent measures, every citizen could move out for an out-of-door walk with members of the family living under the same roof or for practicing an individual physical activity, without violating the corona measures. He also had a question about the experiment of video chat reports in the Mira police zone. These are the municipalities of Anzegem, Avelgem, Spiere-Helkijn, Waregem and Zwegem. The list of possible reports via video chat is currently limited to online scams, theft of license plates, bicycle theft, moped theft, ordinary theft of simple objects, violation of visitation rights, abandonment of marital residence, vandalism, traffic accident with physical damage and with hit-and-run and to make additional statements. This list was drawn up in consultation with the parquet of West Flanders and can be extended in consultation. For heavy facts, a video interview or a report is more difficult. In this case, the declaration will be recorded immediately by the team on the spot or by the reception staff at the office. In addition, heavy facts place a great deal of emphasis on the well-being of the victim and human contact. Victim treatment plays an important role in the interview of the victim. The questioning of perpetrators and witnesses is not yet on the agenda, but can be added at a later stage if necessary and in consultation with the authorities. The legal framework on the contactability and availability of the police area is set out in the Ministerial Circular PLP 10 on the organisational and operational standards of the local police with a view to ensuring a minimum equivalent service to the population. In order to make a return via video chat, the citizen must book an appointment, online or via the reception operator, in the appointment platform Appoint. Afterwards, citizens will receive a confirmation e-mail of the appointment, including the declaration of their rights and a privacy message stating that the police area does not record footage and that citizens are not allowed to record and distribute images without permission. At the start of the declaration, the rights and privacy statement are cited by the inspector. So the images are only streamed and not recorded or stored by the zone. The police zone Mira is the first zone to actually use the video chat function for reporting. However, the software was already integrated into the Office 365 applications of the integrated police in conjunction with the Executive Board of Police Information and ICT Resources. As soon as possible, the system will be evaluated for its advantages and disadvantages. It is still too early to comment on this. What I can say is that the system can count on a high degree of performance for the time being, both for the person who calls on it and for the person who has to use it. Mrs Taquin and Mr Thiébaut, you asked me a question about my statements concerning a possible second wave of the virus. According to experts and scientists, the possibility of a second wave of the virus is very real. However, in the case of a second wave, the approach will be different. Indeed, in the first wave, we quickly took containment measures, which led us to the health situation we are experiencing today. We have not had a situation like Italy and Spain. Thus, in our country, the number of hospitals available has remained under control. In case of new homes, whether local or not, it will be more difficult to lock it again. Shops and businesses have invested heavily in protective and infrastructure equipment. It is also difficult to close all stores for two weeks and reopen them for a few weeks before closing them briefly. The approach to be taken in the face of a resurgence or intensification of the disease is to test citizens and trace contacts. New infections must be quickly identified and controlled, as do our neighbouring countries and European partners. The increase in the number of tests and the ability to trace is therefore the subject of special attention on the part of the government. Mrs Taquin, it is still premature to carry out an assessment of the police capacity involved in monitoring compliance with the measures taken in response to the crisis. In fact, during the various phases of the gradual definisation, the police still carry out checks. Furthermore, the assessment of the police force responsible for these checks is not an easy exercise. For the past two months, the police have been responsible for carrying out checks that vary according to the decisions taken by the National Security Council. These controls are a dynamic and evolving exercise that depends on the risk analyses carried out by the police services concerned, which are based on the realities on the ground that they are best able to apprehend. For example, the main tasks of the personnel initially deployed to control the nature of the movements are now to monitor compliance with the ban on rallies and to manage the crowds. Furthermore, each police area must make an estimate at its level according to local specificities, the capacity to implement to ensure control of the measures. No data are collected on this subject at the national level. With regard to the federal police, I can tell you that an important contribution is always made to monitoring compliance with health measures, for example at the borders, in support of the local police. To this end, all units in the Federal Police Response Reserve, the ICKs and the DAB, but also the Navigation Police (SPN), the Railway Police (SPC), the Canine Support (DACH), and the Public Security Directorate (DAS) were requested. Each police service is responsible for monitoring measures in its territory. For the Federal Police, these are specialized areas of action such as motorways, borders and railways. When local police require reinforcements to carry out their missions, they request reinforcements through the usual channel. The Operations Directorate, the DGA and the DAO maintain an overview and coordinate all requests for support. To date, all missions have been completed and no capacity gaps have been noted. I come back to my conclusions. With respect to the federal police, a capacity management strategy has been put in place to ensure a federal reserve for unplanned events or incidents. With regard to the coming months, and in particular the support for tourist regions, there is ongoing consultation with the relevant administrative authorities, the local police and the federal police. The coastal areas, for their part, receive the support of the federal police every year. This will also be the case this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u46	Thank you for your global answer, Minister. As has already been said, we will put that answer on the extranet today so that everyone has the opportunity to look at the answers to their specific questions in extenso and, if necessary, to formulate follow-up questions. Of course, I would now like to give the floor to Members for their replies or supplementary questions. Who's asking for the floor? I'll go over everyone according to the size of the group. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your anthology, so to speak. Unfortunately, this has not answered many of my specific questions. For example, I asked which recommendations of the Commission's tourism package will be taken into account by Belgium. I had also asked how it would be checked which travellers are welcome and which are not. The European Commission, in its proposal, has said that people must be admitted in a non-discriminatory manner. This will not be done on the basis of their nationality, but on the basis of their place of residence. It is, of course, much more difficult to check where someone comes from than to check nationality, so I would like to know how Belgium will check it. You refer to the ECDC that will keep a website containing data on how different countries and possibly regions within countries do about number of infections, number of deaths, etc. Belgium scores pretty badly in that respect. We will therefore have to step up our efforts to improve the image of Belgium in our neighbouring countries and other countries. So I would like to know how Belgium will do that. I certainly hope that the reopening of borders will take place in consultation with the Ministers for Tourism of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u48	MM. Senesael and Thiébaut do not wish to reply. Mrs Jadin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u49	Minister, thank you for your response, as you usually do. I would like to insist on making sure that you have the correct interpretation of your remarks. You recalled the various legislations in place to allow the border to be crossed in a specific way. As a municipalist, as an alderman in my commune, I know these provisions very well. My question was whether, given the mandate you have already had and the contacts you had to make with your counterparts, the gradual opening of borders could be considered much more quickly. In this regard, Minister, I refer to your answer. You are telling me that this is a provision that should in principle be the subject of a decision by the National Security Council tonight. How will you then implement this one and within what time frame? Minister, I repeat, it's not to bother you. It's not mad at me for nothing either. It is really to convey serious concerns, difficult situations that some citizens are experiencing in my region, particularly in the Dreiländereck bordering Germany and the Netherlands, but also on the border with Germany and Luxembourg. There are families here who want to see each other again. You have recently reported in the press on the four-person rule which could be applied also for cross-border regions with a similar epidemiological situation, i.e. a similar evolution of VOCID-19. Do you already think you can finalize these measures in terms of deadlines? Minister, it is very important to be able to give a bowl of air, a bowl of hope to those who hope for it both in my region and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u50	Mrs Taquin, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u51	Mr President, I asked a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u52	The minister is free to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u53	Ich kann nur sagen, dass es heute Abend keinen Sicherheitsrat gibt. Das nächtste Treffen des Sicherheitsrats findet erst im Juni statt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u54	Sie haben gesagt, dass Sie heute Abend ein Gutachten erwarten, auf Basis dessen Sie eventuell neue Entscheidungen treffen können.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u55	Das haben Sie falsch verstanden, das ist gar nicht so. Es geht heute Abend nur um ein Dokument das uns geschickt wird vom GEES.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u56	Genau, das Expertenkomitee. Und wenn dieses grünes Licht gibt, kann man dann die Hoffnung hegen, dass die Möglichtkeit besteht, so wie Sie auch mandatiert wurden vom Nationalen Sicherheitsrat bereits vor zwei Wochen, dass dann neue Erkenntnisse zur progressiven Grenzöffnung gemacht werden? Das ist meine Frage, einfach und simpel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u57	Ich habe schon geantwortet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u58	Nein, das haben Sie nicht, Herr Minister. Es tut mir leid, das haben Sie nicht. Das ist nicht korrekt. Als Parlamentarier darf man durchaus auch ein bisschen Debatte und Respekt erwarten und eine Antwort auf ganz klar gestellte Fragen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u59	Minister, you have answered some of my questions. With regard to your announcement that there would be no second lockdown – and we all hope that we won't have to go back to earlier phases – I would like more details on testing and tracing. Could you tell me whether this priority role for testing and tracing has been assessed and decided within the framework of the reconfinition plan developed by the experts? What exactly are the planned figures, the planned logistical arrangements for mass testing and the increase in testing capacity in such a case compared to the current situation? I hope, like my colleague Mrs Jadin, that I will get an answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u60	Certainly, I will give you an answer. I will give you the answer, and the only answer possible: this question must be asked to my colleague Mr. Backer, who's in charge of tracing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u61	All right, but then I don't understand how we can announce that there will be no turning back if there is no certainty. I wonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u62	Yes, but with all my sympathy, you mustn't question yourself too much. This is a matter for Mr. Backer. That's the only thing I can say. He was responsible for organizing all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u63	What I mean is that we want to believe in your intention not to go back, as Minister of the Interior. But as we meet in our communes, as mayors, we must ensure that all measures can be implemented to enforce, for example, the rules of social distancing, and in any case all the rules that prevent the spread of the virus. I insist, because, as you pointed out earlier, we must move forward with certainties in order to better anticipate and protect the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I'd like to talk about three more points. Firstly, with regard to testing in the Willebroek area, you may well place responsibility for this with Mrs De Block. I believe that testing is a priority, because we learn from the situation in the rest homes where there was no test at first and a lot tested at a later stage, that the COOVID epidemic was rapidly under control. I would like to make it clear once again that we are calling for more testing in the assisted areas. With regard to your answer on the enforcement of control measures and the amount of fines, I think you will agree with me that for those who live in a small apartment and earn 1,000 euros a month, a fine of 250 euros is palpable months later. In the case of a manager or worse, a high society figure or even a politician, who does not comply with the corona measures and would like to have EUR 250 for them, we ask ourselves whether the fine should not be higher. Maybe we should find another solution. The corona fines have come to teach people a lesson. Whoever makes a lot of money hasn't learned a lesson now. If necessary, allow such people to participate in community service in a COVID department, or in a rest home. I believe that they will learn their lesson very quickly. I would also like to talk about the visit to neighbouring countries. Let me give you an example so that you can get a clear picture of it. Suppose there's a family that's separated, divorced. Mr. X lives in Maasmechelen, and his ex-wife lives a few kilometers away, just across the border. They have three babies. During the corona crisis, that man was not allowed to visit his own children. But the story's not finished yet. Mr X works for a construction firm. He is therefore allowed to cross the border to work in Rotterdam, hundreds of kilometers away, with thousands of other employees, but if he passes his children on the way back at 200 meters, he is not allowed to visit them. It's now three months later. I believe that communication is the main problem, Minister. Even now, people at the border are being told that they cannot cross the border to visit their own children. Explain this. We're three months away, Minister. These kids don't understand why they can't see their daddy living a few blocks away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u65	I can answer that very briefly. If the parents had arranged their affairs within the framework of co-parenting, there was no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u66	Then we have a communication problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u67	People must also want to listen to what is possible. If their living together and custody of the children were arranged in co-parenting, there was no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u68	I don't think it's the people who have to listen, it's the police officers who carry out the checks. That's where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u69	The policemen have done very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As far as commuting is concerned, it's a bunch of KBs. I am glad that an additional legal analysis will also be made. The problem is that many policemen in municipalities never come to work by train or bus. They come by car or by bike. But the measures in the Royal Decree suddenly give them the right to money to move in this limited period of time. I do not think it was the intention of the RB to temporarily provide these people with additional funding. I have also read that the federal police's legal service uses Article 11.5.1 of the police's legal status regime to give that money anyway. That money will have to come from the local police zones. I also asked who would ultimately have to pay for this. I suppose this is part of the legal investigation, too. The President of the Standing Committee has also asked for this, but has not yet received an answer. There are two possibilities. Either the KB remains as it is and a solution to the financing will have to be found. Either the KB will have to be modified. It's in your hands, and I'm confident it'll be resolved. As far as transmigration is concerned, I understand that the police have other business to do in corona times than to organise checks on motorways and on trains. I also think it is necessary, as you rightly pointed out, to restore controls to the pre-corona crisis when European internal borders are opened. The smugglers and traffickers will also re-open their clandestine shop and restart their activities. Then it is really crucial for our police to return to their posts to try to catch the smugglers, but also to free the transmigrants from often difficult circumstances and bring them back to their countries. You have said that you are working on a plan and that it will be part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u71	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. In itself, I still think the rules are quite clear and I think it is important that they are properly observed. However, we have just felt from the reaction of Mr Jadin that the pressure is getting very high. The question of a million is when people can cross the border for a family visit. You say that an opinion from the GEES is coming and that you will continue to do so. I would like to ask you to give us an insight into a period of time, because the problem is that we are already starting to think about tourism measures in the context of the exit strategy today, but for many people, family is a very important thing. If these two things are sidelined, I understand that some people are getting very impatient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic186x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answers to all the questions.
