ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u2	The discussion of the government statement is resumed. The discussion of the Government's statement is resumed. We shall continue with the list of speakers in the general discussion. That means that I can now give the floor. The government is represented by Mr Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, we are at last here and, sixteen months after the elections, we can discuss an agreement of government which we hope will give us confidence in tomorrow. Finally, parties in our country take responsibility for forming a coalition together. There have been several parties in the last year who have tried to form a coalition, but the results of the elections have not been easy. We had to deal with various ideologies and programmes that were sometimes very far apart. It's not easy to put that together. There has been a long wait for an agreement between the largest party in Flanders and the largest party in the South of the country. Up to four times an attempt has been made, but unfortunately in vain. And then we have to take responsibility and do what we can, because the situation in our country is serious. Not only our country, but also the rest of the world is currently facing the most serious health crisis since the Second World War: a crisis that causes human victims. More than ten thousand people have died in our country. Every day people end up in the hospital, people lose their jobs and companies go bankrupt. It is our duty as politicians to take our responsibility and build bridges between parties and ideologies that might otherwise not find each other easy, to take back the political leadership of this country. The political crisis in our country is extremely serious. Since the departure of the N-VA from the Swedish coalition in December 2018, we have not had a government that had a majority in the Chamber of Representatives. That's almost two years. For the past two years, people on television have seen a policy that is undecided, that is inconsistent and does not take the lead in the country. That's gonna end now. There's hope again. Parties have worked together to create something that works. You see the cohesion in a team that wants to move forward, with a prime minister who wants to move forward and four ideologies who want to help each other and with respect want to take this country back into their hands. The standstill must be over and we must move forward. It's been asking a lot of us. There have been statements in the past year that have not made it any easier. Between the Flemish Interest and the N-VA stood a Chinese Wall. That Chinese Wall disappeared when last year the negotiations on a Flemish coalition began. Ecolo-Groen would never be in one room with the N-VA. Until the parties last summer by Bart De Wever and Paul Magnette were invited to negotiate. The Green Family then negotiated a government agreement with the N-VA. It is understandable that all these walls and harsh statements must perish at some point, so that we can take responsibility together. [[Applause]] That's not the applause I expected, but thanks anyway. We have found seven parties who want to support each other and are willing to build bridges between four different ideologies to regain confidence. Seven parties willing to step over their own shadow in the public interest. This team is not just going to focus on managing the crisis. It will be very important in the coming years to communicate clearly about the pandemic, to have clear action plans, to clarify how we can avoid a second lockdown in our country. It would not be possible for our people to handle them mentally, socially and economically. That will be the first challenge of this team. In the coalition agreement, therefore, much attention has been paid to the way in which we are going to combat the pandemic and continue the work of the previous government. However, the aim of this team goes beyond managing the current crisis. Indeed, our country is not functioning well and needs structural adjustments. I agree with the opposition that not everything here works perfectly, that the structure of our country is too complex and that we must do something about it. What I do not agree with, however, is that this must necessarily lead to this country being pulled apart and split up. That is the spirit of this coalition agreement. There are things that can go to the region and the region's debt can indeed be strengthened. I am even in favour of greater fiscal autonomy for the regions. We are working on a state reform to strengthen the regions by 2024, but there are also issues to strengthen the federation. Look, for example, at the management of the crisis, at the various health ministers that count our country and at the coordination that has so far been lacking. Then you might say that it would be easier to regulate everything at Flemish level or at Walloon level. What does that help us in Brussels, where a million people live and hundreds of thousands of commuters come together every day? Then three contact tracing systems that don't communicate with each other are useless. Then there is a need for unity of command, in which the federal level can be strengthened. In times of crisis, the federal government must play its role. A state reform must therefore be able to ensure that the federal level is strong in coherence and is able to function properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u4	Mr Lachaert, the slogans are flying around. It is always good to make it more concrete. You are making a plea here to reunite powers, to take away powers from Flanders and to bring them to the Belgian level. That often stays with slogans. In the past, we once asked: what does that mean? Alexander De Croo, as Minister, said that we should re-federalise energy policy. I noticed at the time that's kind of special. At that time, Bart Tommelein was responsible for energy in the Flemish government. So I asked him, "Do you not trust Bart Tommelein?" Would you prefer Mrs Marghem, then competent in the federal government, to conduct energy policy? Since then, I have never heard of that example again. Since then, I haven't heard the Open Vld say that energy needs to be refederalised. Then there was the latest example. Your colleague Tim Vandenput's opinion paper on mobility in the Knack last week. Again the question to you, Mr Lachaert: do you really think that Lydia Peeters, Open Vld Minister in the Flemish Government, is doing so badly that you want to take away her authority and give it to Mr Gilkinet, Minister for Mobility in this federal government? Is that what Open Vld stands for? Secondly, these powers are currently Flemish. This means that we can rule on this by a Flemish centre-right majority. We should not compromise on this with the PS, and we should not do so with Ecolo. We just do that among ourselves, with a majority, a center-right majority. Do you really think it is necessary to remove powers from Flanders and bring them to Belgium, where you will have to negotiate with the PS and Ecolo? Do you find that so funny, when we can just do that among ourselves, on the center right? Would you prefer a compromise with the Socialists? I think that's a little special.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u5	Thank you, Mr Loones, for your intervention. I'll start with your first question. You're starting to focus on people. You give examples and quotes that can be given from all kinds of people. I can give you quotes from colleague Van Quickenborne who certainly has a Flemish reflex and who are more in your direction. In our party, there are individual opinions on this. That's not wrong either. That is why we are liberals and people have different opinions. But my party's line is efficiency. That's all that matters. It's not about taking away powers, it's about an efficient state.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u6	Mr Lachaert, I understand that you are talking about the fact that this country has lived in indecision for two years. You say that once again there is more hope and that there is a coherent team. If I look at the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs alone, I ask myself special questions. When I see how in the past year the members of the various parties in many legislative proposals were opposite each other and fought against each other, and it was again and again: is the legislative proposal coming through, yes or no? That they now suddenly make their ideology, their opinion, disappear into the background and suddenly become big friends and support everything for each other. I find that very strange. On the other hand, you have always fought purple-green yourself. This should not really be your preferred coalition if I read and listen to the various interviews you have given in recent months. Now you say there's hope again. I think there is very little hope for Flanders. But I think I understand why you made the turn. In the end, there was only one case that was very important. That was Alexander De Croo's prime ministership. I guess the rest was less on the count. For the rest, Mr Lachaert, I am very surprised. You're a liberal party defending our economy. All I can see is that we now have a Minister of Economy, a Secretary of State for Relance, a Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and a Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. I call that a Mexican army. How are you going to ensure that all these ministers will work efficiently and not shoot a bazooka to end up hitting a mosquito? Moreover, I would like to point out that three of these ministers are Walloon ministers, while Flanders is responsible for 80% of exports and 70% of taxes. Are you convinced that the Flemish entrepreneur will be sufficiently heard in that government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u7	Mr President, I saw other people coming in. I don't know if I'll answer all the comments immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u8	Mr Lachaert, I would like to say briefly that you did not actually answer Mr Loones' question and I understand why. In the past, especially at the time of the civilian manifestos, the Open Vld was a party with a huge Flemish reflex. A party that saw that efficiency can only be achieved if we also opt for more Flemish autonomy. But then the N-VA came and all the parties had to reprofile themselves a bit. From an urge to diversify towards the N-VA, you have chosen to turn from a Flemish-minded reflex to a chauvinistic belgicism. However, you know as well as I do that nothing organized at the Belgian level will be more efficient than at the Flemish level. You could say: we have to look beyond our noses. But let's just look at the current situation. Which parliament works in the most efficient way: the Federal Parliament, the Chamber or the Flemish Parliament? I am talking about all areas, both organizational in terms of digitisation and how people work there. Which government works most efficiently, not only today but for the last ten to twenty years? Is that the Flemish government, which you are now part of, or is that the federal government? I'm curious to hear your answer. The formation of government was also a very good example of this. We just talked about it. What form of government is usually the most efficient: the Flemish or the federal? What exactly is efficiency in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u9	In the distance, I see someone else with the hand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u10	Mr President, I would like to come back to the fact that Mr Lachaert points out that it is important to have a plan in case of an epidemic or another disaster. That is something that we have indeed often pointed out. We have done so in January, in February, in March and in April and May. In June and July, we then made a resolution asking the government to urgently address either the revision of the existing pandemic plan or the preparation of a new pandemic plan. We asked for urgency even a week or two ago. Now we see that the issue is very prominently included in the government programme. All the parties that now form the government did not consider it necessary to give urgency to our proposal. So I wonder: is that an idea that has arisen in the last two weeks, or why didn't it seem important at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u11	Colleagues, I'm trying to sum up a number of things. Firstly, Mr Van Lommel, you point out that there are different ideological beliefs in the federal Parliament. I know that, too. It is also true that there have been many major discussions with very different views in various socio-economic committees such as the Social Affairs and Economic Committees in the last year. It is also true that there have sometimes been votes in which I have asked questions. That is democracy, Mr Van Lommel. I know it's a difficult concept with different opinions. After elections, people gain seats according to the country's representation. After that one has to play the game according to the existing rules. We have a Choosing Code and a Constitution. If one can form a government, one has succeeded in bringing together different opinions and forming a majority in Parliament. That's what we did. We have done so, and we have defended our ideology in it, along with others. We have reached a reasonable compromise that can make this country work again. You are talking about the question of who is competent for what. Okay, there's someone in charge of Economics and someone in Social Services. That's normal. Those people are gonna have to work together. You also know that the government is a collegial body. Decisions shall be taken together and shall take account of each other. In this constellation, this coalition, it is primordial that everyone takes into account each other's sensitivities. That's been the key from the beginning of the formation. The preformation mission is to build confidence by taking into account each other's sensitivities. You know where our sensitivities lie. Mr Van Langenhove also pointed out: our economy, taxation, the labour market. These are matters which are very important to me and which we have also explained to our coalition partners from the beginning. As for the green family, climate ambitions and energy are important chapters to take into account and also mobility. For the socialist family, the main concerns were poverty, pensions, purchasing power. For the CD&V we also know that, in addition to some typical DNA themes, there were many institutional questions that also go in your direction. One has the choice, either constantly hurting each other and harassing each other, as happened in those committees for a year, or working together and moving the symbols aside. It will then be possible, on the basis of common sense, to reform this country in the long term in the cases where it is agreed. That's what this team wants to do, and I'll give it my support. We can, of course, continue to park the same theme on our own point of view, but then there will never be a government and one can never go on. Mr Loones asked: why do you not stick to the Swedish coalition? But, Mr Loones, I would have liked to remain with the Swedish coalition. I would have loved to have done that. But who pulled the plug on the Swedish coalition that got her punished in the election? You, no one else. You had your chance. You have achieved a lot of votes over the last ten to twenty years, but at some point you have to make the evaluation of exactly what you are doing with it. What are you doing with the votes you get in the Federal Parliament and what progress have you made?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u12	Two cases. First of all, rewrite history as you wish. I simply note that at the time of the Marrakech Pact, you considered that pact to be more important than the continuation of a socio-economic recovery government which had managed to reduce deficits to 0.8 percent, which had reduced the tax burden and also reduced public debt. You considered it absolutely necessary to approve the Marrakech Pact. We thought: yes, maybe (...) But that wasn't my question. My question was: why the hell do you want to take powers from Flanders? Flanders, where we have a centre-right majority, where we don't need the PS, where we don't need Ecolo, where we can just run among ourselves. You don't seem to find that funny. Apparently, you prefer to take away powers from that centre-right Flemish majority in the Flemish Parliament and the Flemish Government to give them to a Belgian level that is not efficient, that blocks and where you prefer to compromise with Ecolo and the PS. Why? Are you sure I can't reach it? Why the motion of censure in the words of your colleague Tim Vandenput against your Minister of Mobility, Lydia Peeters? Why? Isn't she doing her job well enough? Yeah, I'm an absolute fan of Lydia Peeters. Absolutely. She's doing an excellent job. Please let them continue to work instead of putting her under curatel of a Belgium that is not working.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u13	Mr Loones, I will not continue to argue with you about the same thing. I too want to strengthen Flanders as a level and work towards a state reform. That is the intention of this coalition agreement. We are going to create a forum, not only with the seven parties from the government but also with you, also with other parties that want to cooperate democratically, to carry out a state reform that can strengthen Flanders. Am I the one who says big packages have to go to the federal level? No. But what you have to admit is that a lot of powers in our country are spread over the federal and regional levels, and that we should dare to look at them with an open mind, without taboos. Can't we bring some things back together, either at the regional level or at the federal level? I am not telling you today, Mr Loones. that mobility has to go back to the federal. I'm not telling you that energy has to go back to the federal. All I want is for us to have an objective, rational discussion about this. As with a company in crisis, restructuring is carried out to ensure that the weather functions. I would like to follow your dream, that with splitting everything is solved. But you forget one thing: 20% of our gross national product is made in Brussels, a capital city that everyone in the world knows. Flanders and Wallonia cannot just split up because we will always work together in the heart of our country. That is why we are obliged to have cooperation and to pursue a policy with all people, from Arlen to Ostend.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u14	Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr Lachaert has just answered a question from Mr Loones. If everyone keeps up like this, it'll be very late. We have a debate, but the speaker also has his rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u15	Thank you, Mr Lachaert, for noticing me. I found it striking, and that has directly to do with what you said about efficiency and the most appropriate level, to read in the coalition agreement that you seem to think that Europe is the most appropriate level to determine our social security policy. I read a European minimum wage, a European Youth Guarantee, a European Child Guarantee. However, I thought that in his previous position as Minister of Finance, the current Prime Minister said: responsibility and solidarity go hand in hand. If, of course, all countries are to spend a bag of money, then they will not carry out the necessary reforms. Nor does that seem to me to be the way to increase the level of support for Europe, which you do want to do. Are we really going to let Europe decide how many crèches we should have? Are we really going to let Europe decide that, for example, every worker should have five days of care leave and four months of parental leave? But I thought it was important for the job creation to invest in that? That's how you're gonna take that down. Are these the liberal values you want to convey? I think that's pretty amazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u16	By the way, I forgot to answer something. I apologize. Mrs Gijbels referred to a resolution on the pandemic plan. I will not comment too much on the parliamentary agenda now. But I think you will be pleased, once you have tabled that resolution, that it is now being implemented in this coalition agreement. It's certainly not a side effect. You also know that there are a lot of cases in the Federal Parliament that we want to see declared urgent. In the long term, the committee agendas will no longer be available. As leader of the political group, I know that this is sometimes the reason not to support the urgency, apart from the content. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you know, of course, that we are committed to Europe. You also have experience in this hemisphere. I know your party is Eurosceptic. Not directly Europe's great champion, but those nation states that must maintain their autonomy. We believe in the European institutions. We believe that Europe has ensured that there are no more wars in our continent over the last 70 years. This is an historic achievement of Europe through cooperation, economically, in all kinds of areas, which means that we no longer have to fight each other and have cooperation within Europe. We must continue to do so in the longer term. The aim is to make social progress. There's no one to object to that, is there? The aim of economic cooperation is not to make people poorer, I think. The aim of economic cooperation is for people to move forward, for wages to increase in those countries where it is more difficult. Of course we are in favour of social progress. Does that mean that Europe must impose everything on us? I agree with you and I follow you, that is not my line either. But we are still going for this joint social progress in Europe. Okay, then I'll continue my intervention. I did get into totally different themes. I was in the introduction that this team now wants to start, after many months of difficulties in our country with political instability. This team wants to stand up to the shouting, against polarization and goes on a journey we have heard so many times positive way of doing politics. It does not run away from the problems, but takes responsibility, and that, ladies and gentlemen, will also be the way to counter anti-politics. If we remain in this instability, we should not be surprised that people turn away more and more from politics. The only way to counter that is by driving. By controlling well, together, and not with words but with deeds. The fact that you, as an opposition, will deal with this is your democratic right. That's what you're gonna have to do. But this crew will have to do it. As people say in football: we have to answer with our feet and not by cancering the referee. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have negotiated a strong government agreement. It has to be done quickly, because despite the very long efforts made to form governments, this coalition agreement has been reached very quickly, at six weeks. I don't think we've seen that many times in our country. We don't have that tradition. We have a tradition of negotiating government agreements for a very long time, but here we have brought a very comprehensive text in the short term, and I know how that has grown from the beginning. How hard it was to restore that trust after that failed attempt to expand that bubble of five. It wasn't easy to regain that trust, but we did. I would like to thank everyone for that. Not only the politicians sitting here, but also all those employees, all those people who have been involved in what we are going to do here. Thank you so much for your work, day and night. They're trying to frame this crew, of course. That's how politics works. People like to say to the liberals and the CD&V: purple-green, with only red and green accents. That's very nice to bully one and then the other. I have just heard my good colleague, Raoul Hedebouw, who says: it is a continuation of Swedish policy. Mr Loones, you can see that the opposition's views are quite different about the coalition agreement that we have concluded. Anyway, the duty of the opposition is to oppose. That's normal. They will try to frame us, but if I hear, on the one hand, that it is the continuation of Swedish policy and, on the other hand, that it is red-green, then it will be okay with this broad centre coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u17	The later on in the evening, the more interesting it gets. I understand now that Open Vld is about halfway between the PVDA and the N-VA. And that's what you call the center. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u18	Strong remark, Mr De Wever, sorry, Mr De Roover. The coalition agreement must provide answers to the different challenges that exist. They can, of course, be found at the pandemic at first instance. People expect us to communicate well about the crisis as soon as those new teams make decisions after the National Security Councils. There is also a specific Secretary of State, Mr Dermine, who has contributed to the agreement and with whom I have worked for many weeks on economic revival. I'm sure that'll work. We must do everything we can to give people the assurance that the crisis is under control. It will ask a lot of us until next year, hopefully, there will be a vaccine and hopefully we will all be able to take back normal life. Colleagues of the PVDA, I have just heard your speech. It is difficult to deny that this team is making considerable efforts in the field of health care. I see unseen investments in health care here. You have made generous proposals in Parliament over the last year concerning the improvement of the Blouses blanches Fund. You know that will be preserved. That is what the various colleagues have done. That has been put on the table and must be preserved. As Minister of Health, Maggie De Block has concluded a social agreement with the trade unions to give the heroes of care the merit they deserve. It's being honored. This is maintained and we are also going to set the growth standard in health care at 2.5 %. The technical estimates were now 2.2 to 2.3 %. We're going to continue investing in health care. I think that is a very clear answer to the crisis that exists. There's no other way. We owe this to this strong health care system, which we can be proud of in our country, and which we will strengthen further over the next decade. But we also have to go fuck ourselves. For that, ladies and gentlemen, we must also continue to reform in the country. I've heard it a number of times at the beginning. Where are you guys gonna get the money, 'cause this is gonna cost something anyway? That is correct. That is an additional investment and there are other expenditures. You know there was originally a wish list. We've been able to read that. Eleven billion euros in new policies. That is, of course, a great deal, and that is not feasible. That's obvious. Of course, we have had to negotiate this among ourselves. That was the subject of a very lively discussion the last few days before that agreement was reached. Where are we going to put our priorities? You can see that in the table. You've been able to read that. The amount is €3.2 billion in new policies. I have also read other notes with a new policy of EUR 16 billion. I didn't know how to pay for that either. I have read a capital gain tax of a few billion euros. The taxes would not increase, but thus a capital gain tax of a few billion euros. Good. So we all don't do that kind of business. I can reassure everyone. What we do do is what we have to do. We invest in care and in the lowest pensions, also for the self-employed. They're often people with a very low pension. They will also be able to benefit from raising the minimum pension towards those 1,500 euros. We will have to pay for this and for this EUR 3.2 billion of new policy there is now a compensation in the table you have seen. On top of that, a new effort is needed to set the budget on track towards the Stability Pact. You've heard the rule a few times. I heard the name of Jean-Luc Dehaene. Apparently that comes from his case: a third savings, a third new income and a third miscellaneous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u19	For 20 years the Liberals have been part of any government in this country and for 20 years you have promised that there will be no new taxes. In the meantime, however, our country really belongs to the world summit on taxation. We also heard that during the negotiations. I have just put the question very clearly to Mr Laaouej: is there going to be a security tax, is there going to be a general capital tax or is there going to be a capital gain tax? Mr Laaouej has replied very clearly. There's gonna be a load on the power. I heard that very clearly here. Do you deny what Mr Laaouej is saying? What capabilities will be addressed? You know that most of the assets are of course in Flanders. Is the saver or the self-employed marked who, because he has a low pension, puts a small jar aside? What's your purpose with that wealth tax? What abilities do you intend to take away?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u20	Interesting question, of course, which I also expected: we have to pay it. Let me come back to that. I shall then return to your question. I might do that first, because that's how it's easier to be clear. What's the deal? You've read the coalition agreement. There are a number of smaller valuations that, I think, do not affect the ordinary people who work, save and undertake in our country. If we introduce a digitaks for the Amazon.coms in our world, it is not the common man or the one who has a business in Flanders, or in Wallonia or anywhere else that is affected by it. These are assessments that can be justified from an international perspective of justice and that will not disturb anyone. Whatever it says, and that's that silillinary sentence you're referring to and what's some discussion about over the last few days. That is: the strongest shoulders should also contribute to this COOVID crisis that we are now facing. I admit, it's a sibilline sentence. Maybe it's better to be clear about what it means. Because that has been discussed around the table and agreements have been made about it. What aren't we gonna do? We're not gonna introduce power taxes with power casters and keeping track of people's assets. We're not gonna do that. A capital gain tax with such a land register that we will weigh year after year in your tax bill, we will not do that either. Open-Vld said quite clearly from the start of the exercise: we do not participate in a capital gain tax or we do not come to the table. That was very clear. The other parties have also told us about these things, so that is a very clear red line. As you know, I am now giving you a very liberal position, but as a liberal too, I have to admit this. If the budget is in such a state today in all the countries of the world because of this COOVID crisis, when health care costs so much and people need to be helped, people living in poverty, people seeing their business break down, and if we are to provide support for it, would it not be normal and just to ask the 1% with the most money in our society for a small effort? Is that so abnormal? No. What are we thinking about? There are people who are perfectly capable of depositing more than 1 million euros and making profits tomorrow with some kind of investment. If a speculative profit is made on this now, it is possible for me to collect a specific levy that goes to the good cause of the COOVID campaign. We've agreed that that's negotiable. We are not going to wait too long for that either, but that will never, ever touch ordinary people in the streets. That will not affect the person who works every day, the person who takes action and has an SME in Flanders or anywhere, or the person who has spared.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u21	I'm listening to you with increasing amazement. I have seen one of your names in Parliament in recent years. His name was Lachaert, too. That was a liberal and he spoke a very different language than you do now. You try to hide that metamorphosis with statements such as: do not walk away from your responsibility, fight against anti-politics, good governance, not words but actions....Anyway, the kind of container words that allow you to stretch your speech until the time provided. Then it's about taxes. Mr Lachaert, you have now suddenly discovered that there is a substantial source of income, because we are not talking about a bummer without affecting the saving, working Fleming or Belgian. Suppose you succeed in doing so, and you are not going to avoid it by, for example, moving abroad or whatever. I wonder how you will succeed in that. Would it not be good, then, Mr Lachaert, to turn, from your liberal principles, into a tax reduction for all those working people who are overtaxed today because you seem to have never released that bag of money before, in a country with a public debt of over 50% and with a total tax debt of more than half? So I guess you've now discovered that there's still some money to get away from without getting to the common man. Well, it's a shame you don't give that back to that ordinary working Fleming and working active person. How much do you think that tax will pay? Why don't you turn that into a tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u22	So, Mr President, it is now effectively confirmed that there will be a capital tax. The question is, of course, who are those people with power? We all know that. These are those savers, especially in Flanders, who have put away an apple for thirst. Those are the self-employed, especially in Flanders, who have built up a capacity to compensate for a much too low pension. But I would like to ask a second question, Mr Lachaert. This coalition agreement also states that you will reduce the alternative forms of remuneration. This concerns, for example, commercial cars and other social benefits. So you will reduce company cars and other social benefits. This means, in concrete terms, a tax increase for everyone who works and does. How the hell are you gonna sell that to the Fleming?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u23	I will rather keep my comments technical after the earlier political interventions so far. I hear you're admitting that there will be an asset tax. While you said a few weeks ago, there will be no form of capital gains tax or security tax, which is also a capital tax. None of that was gonna happen, but it's gonna happen now. I am very curious about how it will be applied and what will be taken away. Will the real estate and income be included? Secondly, you are always talking about the fact that this will not affect the ordinary man, the ordinary citizen. I have just added your budget table. Item 24 deals with the non-indexation of tax expenditure, including the holding tax on replacement income and the income limits of replacement income. It's small amounts that are in here, for the time being, but that's not about big assets. This concerns, among other things, the ordinary wage earner. We already have an opening here in your first budget table to a tax charge on the ordinary middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u24	If we are talking about liberals, I would like to talk about another liberal, particularly Mr Paul De Grauwe. [[Hilarity]] Everyone can have their own resources, can't they? I think his reflection is very interesting. After all, he states that in our society there has never been so much wealth piled up on one side of society. Contrary to what's being said about multimillionaires, that wealth is money that raises money. That's not work. Do you have any idea how many years a Colruyt employee has to work, if he's working hard, just to build the same fortune as Jef Colruyt? Does anyone have any idea? It's been 10,000 years. That's a lot... Yeah, but that's it! Money calls money [[.]] As you know, ladies and gentlemen, putting a euro in the ground is not going to be a tree with money. So that money comes from somewhere. Economists such as Piketty and Paul De Grauwe see that in our society the fortunes and heritage grow faster than our domestic product. This means that every year money goes to the proceeds of money and not to the proceeds of work. So the question arises as to whether the middle class is not affected. You're totally, totally right. Here, for your budget, comes a tax that does not, by definition, affect the middle class. We thought with the PVDA that the middle class, for example, was about EUR 1.5 million. We can debate it sociologically, but I thought that was a good figure. The 2 % richest... Do we agree that the 98 % is about the middle class and below? I think that's sociologically correct. So I say, let us work out a capital tax that will affect just those 2% richest. I hear that a cadastre has to be worked out for that. Not at all, as there is no register of wages in Belgium, you simply have to report it to the tax authorities. You get a check every now and then, but there should be no register in advance. If you apply your tax via tax-on-web, that's not a land register. You'll file that yourself. We are simply asking the richest in society to submit it themselves. The tax authorities have to control that occasionally, when they see that it's a little too much. So, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need a land register, but we do need a little political courage. With 300 million euros or something more, which the Council of State will destroy again, we will not get there... Come on, get your courage together and get the money where it is. A little of that can be used to finance our public services and the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u25	Mr President, it is as if I am talking to the walls here, because some of my fellow Members simply do not want to listen. Mr Hedebouw, if you want to finance the social expenditure that you consider important and which this team of course also considers important, we would like to go much further than you need an economic fabric. Then you need people who want to work and undertake and who want to do something about it. What one does and deserves is already burdened. What I will always oppose as a liberal is that you will tax it again. We don't. We're not gonna do that. Then what are we talking about? Apparently, the fellow citizens of the Flemish Interest and the N-VA do not understand this, because they need to be able to tweet something quickly about the Open Vld that has admitted to taxes. They don't even listen. I have told them: anyone who has an effect on their name, anyone who has an SME, anyone who works, anyone who saves, anyone who takes action will not be hit. But if you, Mr De Roover, have EUR 1 million that you can put in an account and tomorrow you will get EUR 100,000 in cash without having to do anything, would it not be normal for you to be asked for something in this COOVID crisis? I also have a social reflex as a liberal who tells me that this should perhaps be possible. Mr De Roover, I would like to show you something interesting. Your chairman, Mr De Wever, has shown me at some point his programme of trying to convince me to get on board. Let me read it to you, because you put it online: savings and investment tax, including capital gains, will be made simpler and investment-neutral. In this context, the basics are widened, different regimes and the tariff are reviewed. You know what I've been told about that? You wanted to confirm to the PS that the withholding tax would not be reduced by EUR 2 billion. The P.S. denies that. And what were you going to do in return? Billions of capital gains tax, because this legislature could cost the money. The year after, it had to yield EUR 4 billion. If you want to raise that money, you're in the pockets of the savers and the entrepreneurs. You were prepared to do so for the implementation of your nationalist agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u26	Of course, a document in the making compares with what you're now splitting us through the stomach... Yes, but you walked. You've shown yourself to be a coward, as soon as your input was needed... But I am glad, Mr Lachaert, that is a first huge difference, that we wanted to introduce a tax reduction. Here we see in the papers with no letter anything that resembles a tax reduction. Secondly, we are seeing a series of tax increases. Indeed, because of the deductions that Mr Donné has just mentioned. By opening the faucet there. That's definitely about the average Fleming. What I referred to earlier is in the spirit of what you read: if you think you are going to find a source to tax... you were just talking about the one million bill and whether it is not just and so on. I still wonder whether you will be able to carry out that assessment effectively, in order to obtain a substantial amount of money and thereby achieve more than symbolism. We'll see about that later. But again my question is, and that was the philosophy we followed: will you use it to increase overall taxation or will you give it back to the people by reducing certain tax regimes, as was our plan? What will you do with the additional revenue you generate with your additional taxes? What will you do with that? The State continues to fatten or give it back to the people who are currently paying other taxes and far too much taxes. What choice do you make with your purple-green government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u27	Mr Lachaert, I did not receive an answer to my question on real estate. You always talk about securities bills, but what about real estate? What about real estate taxation? T And second, you didn't respond to line 24 regarding replacement income. From that I deduce that you admit that you are there fishing a group that you do not want to fish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u28	Mr Donné, I would like to answer, but if I am interrupted halfway through my answer, it is a bit difficult to give you the answer. However, I note that there is no denying that the N-VA intended to allow a few billion in capital gains tax in exchange for an even more complex country. Of course, it is good to deny that, but you put it online yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot deny that it was the case in black and white. That would have been a real disaster for the middle class in Flanders. That's what we're saving Flanders from... We are not going to do that, ladies and gentlemen. Carrying out your plan, we're not gonna do that. I did indeed gladly run away from that plan, especially when I understood that there was nothing left to adapt. I will now answer a number of other questions. Mr Donné, you are talking about non-indexation. That's a limited yield. You know that we have done the same under the Michel administration. You know that you have agreed to this, and now you are starting to make a point of it. In a budget, people are looking for pennies. This includes EUR 3 billion in new policies, Mr Donné. Do you know how much was in the note you posted online? There was 16 billion euros in new policies. How many non-indexations would you have done to pay for working Flanders? Then there is the question of the Flemish interest about the commercial vehicles, because I want to be clear about that. That line's been drawn. That's very clear. We are not going to value this legislature for commercial vehicles. We're not going to abolish it. We're not gonna take it. We're not gonna do that. What are we gonna do? That's forward-looking work. That is a position that we, as Open Vld, have always taken, including colleagues from N-VA and others. That is that, of course, we would prefer people to be paid in euros, not cheques, which we all fought, but unfortunately did not vote in the previous legislature. But those checks, those cars, all the other stuff... Why make it so complicated? Just pay people in euros. The only thing that is difficult about that, of course, is that these systems exist today. We need to reform them very gradually to ensure that we do not break into someone's contract. That we don't harm people. That we don't take their wages. That is what we are going to have to do in the long term, and that is why we are planning a long-term fiscal reform in this coalition agreement. The agreement is that we will prepare it with Mr Van Peteghem, our new finance minister. We are going to prepare that by the end of the legislature, the second half of this legislature. There will be a logic with long transition periods, where we will logically ensure that people are not damaged in the long term but that we like to pay people as much as possible in money. We're gonna have this legislature, you don't have to worry about anyone taking a car. Mr Calvo did not take care of that, he did not ask for it. We're not gonna hurt anyone. We are going to take this slow but we are going to have a long-term view of taxation to pay people as much as possible simply in euros. Period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u29	Mr Lachaert, on the subject of capital taxes, you are still a little bit out of control and I understand that you are getting a little nervous. We can see that too, because you're starting to get a little more busy with your arms. You talk faster, a little louder, and at some point you also lose the pedals. Because you're talking about an account where you put money and where you get 10% interest. I don't really know a bill like that. I am therefore very curious to know which bill that actually is. But to make a long story short, the question was: who gets hit? And you quote an example of someone with an account with a million euros and who then gets 100,000 euros of interest. He's getting hit. But there's no one like that. Because that account, it doesn't exist. So we still don't know who's getting hit. Can you now give a simple answer to that? You have said what you are not going to do with that power tax, which it will not be, but can you now say clearly and clearly what it will be? Preferably with a realistic example and not with accounts on which interest rates are paid at a rate of 10%.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u30	Mr Lachaert, you have just said that you will not touch the commercial vehicles of this legislature. It should, of course, still be lacking. Since this year, 2020, the average deductibility of these commercial vehicles has decreased between 20% and 30%. It would be odd that you would carry out fiscal reforms every year and tax companies and people more and more. You say that you choose the calm approach, but at the same time you are going for sustainability. You are also the driving force behind the greening of the company car park for a large piece. I assume, Mr Lachaert, that you have a lot of contacts in the business world. I can tell you that the business world is on its back feet when you talk about zero emissions in 2026, where internal combustion engines are absolutely no longer the norm. If you want to go to greening and look at the whole CO2 story, I would like to stress that the average company car is one and a half years old. By the way, Renta's people have confirmed that. So those are pretty modern cars driving around. Private cars have an average age of 10 years and account for 90% of the car fleet that drives around Belgium. I therefore find it extremely strange that you are making such communications to the press. That's how you put the whole business on its back feet. I think that's weird. I would also like to ask you, Mr Lachaert, what you understand under zero emissions? You say that you are going to work towards the end of the legislature, but people are still entitled to clarity. Does that mean that it is forbidden to buy another company car with an internal combustion engine or that a company buying a car with an internal combustion engine will be heavily taxed? In what way will that happen? I think that this can also be done with clear wine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u31	Mr President, I would like to come back to it. I have already asked the question twice but have still not received an answer. It is about real estate and the tax treatment of real estate, including in the context of your property tax. You still haven't answered. I am not yet talking about what is going to come to us in the next budgetary checks. Quite specifically in the context of that tax, that capital tax that you will introduce in the spring of 2021, what about the treatment of real estate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u32	Mr Lachaert, you mention the greening story of commercial vehicles, of which we are, of course, absolutely in favour as a matter of principle. It's a long-term story. When I read the coalition chord, I read 2026 there. Of course, it's not that long to make the cover. We shall see what the text means. What's gonna happen in the end. In any case, the text that was the subject of discussions in the Committee on Climate Change in the spring of this year was very arbitrary. There a very clear line was drawn. There, the tax advantage for commercial vehicles was applied only to wagons which were 100 % pure. That went beyond the reality of hybrid cars, even if I understand that correctly, and if I have misunderstood that, then you have to explain to me that to the reality of cars with a range extender, a very small engine that is fossil driven, but which is certainly not strong enough to get those wheels moving and to drive that car. Small-engined engines, which are only intended to recharge the batteries, are all served. That was a bit premature, and I think that the arbitrary proposal, which completely ignores the reality of a number of modest sectors. Look at the service check sector, where people, with all due respect, drive around with a Dacia or a Hyundai. Will those modest brands be ready in time to adapt to what they were supposed to do? I think it is a little too easy to say now that this is a long-term story and that no one will lose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u33	Mr Donné, real estate is not subject to any additional taxation. If you need the confirmation, I'll give you the confirmation. There's nothing about that in the coalition agreement. There's no "Atoma" notebook that says that. You won't find that. Savings bills, for the record, neither. Otherwise, I wouldn't tell you that anyone who works, does, saves in Flanders...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u34	Mr President, very briefly. Can you also confirm that rental income is not taxed, Mr Lachaert? After all, Mr Gilkinet said that rent income is taxed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u35	Mr Lachaert, please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u36	The greening of commercial vehicles is an interesting theme, but it is still independent of the long-term vision of taxation. The long-term vision is indeed that we want people to be paid in euros. That's a cover we have to make. We have to be careful. We can't take people's wages. But if we do have those cars, 700,000 to 800,000 cars in our country, then we should use them better to do something good for the climate and for public health. I don't know who you're talking to, Mr Van Lommel, but I'm talking to a lot of managers who are looking more modernly at society. I also speak with federations like Febiac, Renta and others, who say they are ready. There are manufacturers who will no longer make fuel cars in 2025. The world is moving forward, people. We don't live in the 20th century anymore. New technologies are coming up with performing cars and everyone in the industry is getting ready for that. All this change is a progressive, sensible combination of economics and ecology. New and clean cars are a good thing for ecology and the environment. That's what we're gonna facilitate. Mr Raskin referred to it. There's a bill we made. I have involved you at some point, Mr Raskin, because I thought the N-VA would be more of a pillar. After all, I have heard from Zuhal Demir and from your colleagues in the Flemish Government that you are concerned that the federal government would no longer want to implement the Flemish government agreement. But do you know what it says in that Flemish coalition agreement? I can't believe we're gonna green that company car. We are implementing the Flemish coalition agreement, but it is not good again. So good. We're just doing the right thing. But it's hard with an opposition that will always find something to hurry up. That's your right, but of course it still has to make sense somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u37	Mr Lachaert, I'm not looking for anything to hurry up or anything. I asked you a very simple question. Not for myself. I also got a message from Conner's bomba. That wealth tax, who's gonna get hit by it? In what way? It's the second time I've asked the question. If you ask the question three times, you will get an answer. That's what I learned from my colleague Donné. Do I have to ask them a third time? Then I'll do it right now. Who will be affected by this wealth tax in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u38	Mr President, I can keep repeating it. It's up to the government to work that out. I think I've already described enough what it isn't. It's about speculation. It's about large amounts of money. It's about people who don't just own an SME. It is about money that is available to speculate and have short-term returns. Now, please, let the government work it out technically. She is committed to doing so soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u39	I'm a little surprised that the N-VA doesn't think it makes sense for the government to take the time to work out something so decent. Especially when we look at the history we have experienced in this area over the past five years. One has to look at what has been put together, often with good intentions and for a better cause. How long did all that last? The fairness tax, the speculation tax, the 21 plus 4, the securities tax. All with good intentions, either introduced and removed because they didn't make any money, or destroyed by the Constitutional Court. If this government says, "We're gonna learn something from that." We describe very well what the objective is. We describe very well which audience we really want to touch, namely the people who have the opportunity to make that contribution. Now if we say, "This time we're gonna do it right." We're not gonna do that head-on. We're gonna take the time to do that decently. Then the criticism that is being made is: it is not quite clear yet. What do you prefer? That we would introduce something that would be destroyed again next year or that we would take the time to do our job properly and make sure that it was done properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u40	The whole N-VA group is asking for the floor? I note Mr De Roover, Mr Loones, Mr Raskin and also Mr Donné.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u41	Yeah, because someday we'll get an answer. We're getting somewhere. You don't know where the money will be taken, but you already know where it won't be made. So if you list a lot of things that you're not gonna make, we'll know what's left after long debates. That's where it's coming from. Mr De Croo, Prime Minister, I agree with you, but please do not say that they will not be affected, because you do not know yet. You don't know yet, you say. So we come to a decision. All the things you have mentioned, Mr Lachaert, we do not know yet. You're running out of time. I understand that initiatives will already be taken at the next budgetary control. Furthermore, we know that at least EUR 3 billion, a third of which will be converted into taxes in the course of the legislative period. Tonight, we're not gonna get to know who's gonna pay for it. Although... I regretted earlier that one Deputy Prime Minister was not available. She's among us by now. She can then immediately contradict what she said in De Aangeling, namely that the capital gains tax will be introduced. Just the way it hasn't been knocked off. That's what was said tonight. But if you're about to deny it... I'm asking the question. You're here. So we can get an answer in that respect. So we know that taxes will be levied. We don't know who's getting hit yet. So public opinion does not yet know whether it will be the victim. But, and that is also very important news that we are getting here from a liberal mouth: that extra tax will be used to further fatten the government. It will not return to the rest of the public with tax rebates. So this is going to be more taxes. You have discovered somewhere pocket money that has never been discovered before, that has never been addressed before and that no one will find. You'll get that out of a dark basement. We're wondering who's gonna pay for it. So we will not be hearing it today. You're avoiding the question because you don't know it yet. Taxes will be levied and they will continue to fatten up the government. That is the decision of this fascinating exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u42	I come directly to Mr Raskin, but Minister and Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter, some have watched you on television. I didn't have time for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u43	Thank you very much, Mr De Roover. Thanks for looking. I have been asked: what will that be, a capital gain tax? What mechanism? We have talked about that phrase in the coalition agreement, and Mr Lachaert has actually mentioned it all just now. I said that we call it a solidarity contribution. I have also mentioned that the formality or the way in which this will be completed is not yet established and that we are going to talk about it. That there is a good reason why this is in the coalition agreement. That's because, as has just been mentioned, so far, no final way to achieve this has been found. That's what I literally said. You can't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. It is a contribution of solidarity, the famous strongest shoulders, and there has been a great deal of thought about how this has been formulated. Just because it's a difficult point. The government will work that out further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond, however, because Mr Lachaert at least gives the impression that I would contradict Mrs Demir, which is by no means the case. The Flemish coalition agreement states very clearly that a further greening of the existing fleet is being started. From 2030 onwards, all newly sold passenger cars will be low carbon, of which at least half will be emission-free. In my first speech, I said that we are also in principle in favour of greening commercial vehicles. The question is, of course, what is the path to that? The text that preceded it was very arbitrary. First it was 2020, then it was 2024 or 2025, and now it seems to be 2026, 100 % emission-free. Then you ignore a piece of the reality of many people: 50% of the citizens do not have that driveway, that garage, if they are obliged to drive a 100 % emission-free car. The proposal also excluded all hybrid cars, CNG and range extenders altogether. Of course, it's fun when I drive a BMW, and tomorrow I have to drive a Tesla. Yeah, I'll give you a big round of applause. But a lot of people drive modest cars, modest sectors drive modest cars. I only advocate a realistic path towards greening the commercial vehicles. Basically, we share the same opinion. It's about the path to it, Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u45	Very briefly. What surprises me is that there is almost fear of innovation. We're today 2020. Will there be many new cars that are emission-free over the next six years? We can already see everywhere that there is no doubt that there will be a lot of emission-free cars for the next five to six years. Why should we not take this opportunity to align the policies we are pursuing with that innovation and boost that innovation? I'm supposed to be here. Our country must be the most conservative of all. We're not gonna choose the latest cars that would be the most environmentally friendly. We are going to make sure that, in our remuneration policy, we are actually almost forcing the use of polluting cars. I think it is unlikely that this opportunity for innovation will be seized. And that is the contradiction that I think exists between this government and that party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u46	Mr Van Lommel, and we really must give Mr Lachaert the chance to speak on his other subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not think there is any group here in this hemisphere that opposes technological progress. There is not a single fraction that says that we must continue to drive an internal combustion engine forever. But it is indeed, as a number of other fellow Members have rightly pointed out here, on the road to it. Much also has to do with its affordability. I do not know, Mr Lachaert, whether you have looked at the average price of an electric vehicle. If that is the future, if those are the prices that companies will have to pay to buy those commercial cars, then that will be a very expensive joke. That is the concern of all these companies today. The fact that the infrastructure and the like does not follow. Of course, everyone is for that technological progress, but not the way you see it. It's coming too fast. We're not ready for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u48	We can debate it endlessly. You're alive today and you're looking at today's technology. I am convinced, together with this government, that within six years the world will look different. Today an electric car costs more. You were also present at the hearing in Parliament when the manufacturers came. You have heard very clearly in those hearings in Parliament that even the manufacturers say that in 2025 there will be that turning point in the offer. You have to believe in that, too. A bit of an optimistic future instead of living in the past. I really think we can close that tax debate now, unless you want to keep interrupting me. The opposition has been looking for a property tax and hasn't found it. She's been looking for capital gains taxes and she hasn't found them. But she may have the hope that in the first budgetary control she will find something to shoot at. In any case, Mr De Roover, that will not be a big yield, because otherwise we will be in the middle class. But we're gonna find something. Although it is symbolic to ask something of those strongest shoulders during this crisis period. Mr De Roover, I know that in your note I have already referred to it as a capital gain tax of EUR 4 billion. How were you gonna explain that and how were you gonna use that? That's what you were going to use to fund your new policy. No more, no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u49	I didn't want to do it, but it's because Mr Lachaert keeps coming back to the agreement between Bart De Wever and Paul Magnette. This is being put on the market as a firm agreement in which there were commitments to spend EUR 16 to 20 billion extra. We have already heard here today a tribute from Mr Calvo to Thomas Dermine, also Minister in this new government. He is the penholder of your coalition chord, but he was also actually involved in the conversations between Bart De Wever and Paul Magnette. I would very much like to hear him answer the question formally here: Mr Dermine, had an agreement been agreed in detail and knocked off between Mr De Wever and Mr Magnette which showed that there would be EUR 20 billion extra expenditure? Knocked off and sealed? Is this information from Mr Lachaert correct or is it not correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last time, I promise you, but I'm rather touched by the Prime Minister. With all due respect, I have the feeling that they're putting me away as an irresponsible sujet that's not going with his time. Let me repeat, then, that the arbitrary proposal, which we shall see again, will ensure that these electric cars, which will be introduced very arbitraryly, will run on CO2-breaking gas plants, because the nuclear power stations will be shut down at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u51	Mr President, I thank Mr Lachaert for having had the frankness that others of your colleagues do not have. You said, Mr. Lachaert, that this tax on the widest shoulders will be a symbolic tax. I think the problem is there, and it is also the problem of the other taxes that the Prime Minister has just mentioned: the tax on securities accounts, the speculative tax, the tax which, under Di Rupo, supposedly aimed at large companies, all these taxes are symbolic taxes, placebo taxes. They were there why? To pass the pill of austerity, from a policy that does not meet the social expectations of the population, to be able to say: "Look, we have made the rich pay", while it was purely symbolic taxes. You have said, and you are simply confirming what the figures say: maximum 300 million. On a $500 billion wealth, it's nothing. It is therefore a symbolic tax, which will be used to pass antisocial measures, and you will say: "Look, symbolically, we have taxed the rich." Thank you for your frankness, Mr. Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u52	I will continue with my intervention and I hope that we will land before midnight. This team has a huge challenge, especially the health care crisis and that economic revival. Of course, we need that relance. What's this crew doing? In addition to providing support and making reforms in this country, we will also have to invest. We're not alone in that. The crisis is a great opportunity to invest in the country's infrastructure and to make it more sustainable and digital. Making the government more digital and accessible and thus, in fact, giving an impetus to companies that are responsible for implementation. During a crisis, it is wise to invest in it. That is also what several economists and financial experts say. With the European money at our disposal and with the region's neighbours, we will have to make a plan for investment in our country on the road to a more sustainable and digital economy. I don't think anyone can be against that, and I'm glad I've been able to say five sentences without anyone interrupting me. We will continue to support sectors in difficulty. Look at the construction sector, which is not having an easy time right now. There we will reduce VAT to 6% for two years for demolition and reconstruction and for intelligent investment in insulation and improvement of existing homes. This will give the sector two years to get out of the crisis. We also give a push in other ways in the back of companies. Mr De Roover is concerned. What do we do with the taxpayers' money? I can reassure him. We do things with them that are good for enterprising Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u53	I hope, Mr Lachaert, that you still like to sit here and do it again. I see you've been a little agitated all along. It's not an easy exercise either, I understand. I feel a little sorry for you. But I would also like to comment on what you say. You raise the point of the government agreement that there will be substantial investment and that you want to make a plan for this with the other governments. Of course it's okay. We welcome the fact that additional investments are being made, but we will not, of course, get there with investments alone. Investment is primarily intended to create new jobs. The next assignment is to get those jobs filled out. You refer, for example, to the construction sector. You say that you will boost this sector and that you will make additional investments. Of course, the return on investment of these additional investments will always be too low in society. After all, your agreement does not include any reform worthy of that name in terms of labour market policy. A flexible labour law? That law will be 50 years old next year, half a century old. We still have an incredibly rigid labour market. The big problem with the construction sector is not that there are no jobs enough. The big problem is they don't find people. The result is that the posting in our country becomes the rule rather than the exception. And there's no problem with posting. But if, of course, more than half of these contracts are carried out by foreign companies, then the return on investment of those additional investments on which the government then makes a substantial effort is much lower than what it should be. That is actually the essence of my question. Mr Verherstraeten has said that you will support the Länder in terms of activation. Wallonia will be supported with subsidised fake jobs in those 'zéro-chômeurstateen'. For Flanders it's a bit of a coffee dick watching. After all, Flanders has made very good choices about the activation of inactive people, such as the job bonus, or by investing in things that can increase productivity, for example childcare for people who work. But the final piece at the federal level, in order to maximise the return on these measures, is of course missing. There is nothing going on with regard to the burden on labour and there is no question of limiting unemployment benefits over time. Nor do I read in the coalition agreement the strengthening of degressivity. Worse still, I read that back gates are being opened to even knock down the degressivity. Can you also claim or confirm that even that will not happen? That Swedish policy will not be partially undermined by some back door? I'm very curious. That is, of course, the problem. You are now making a lot of furore with your investments. But with investments alone, you don't do it, because then you create jobs that aren't filled by our job seekers. Then the return on investment is far too low and that is actually a measure for nothing for an important piece. That's too bad. That is one of the greatest missed opportunities in this coalition agreement. I would therefore like to know from you how you want to maximise the return on investment of, for example, that additional effort, that investment, despite the fact that nothing will happen in the field of labour market policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u54	Mr Lachaert, you are talking about the importance of investment in infrastructure. Very interesting, because I wonder what the policy vision of this coalition is for investments in government infrastructure itself. What is your vision of the future for the Government of the Buildings? The government's real estate management is on a budget of almost a billion euros a year, but in your coalition agreement, that's barely worth a few sentences. Of course, I do not have to explain to you that the corona crisis has a huge impact on the work organisation of our FPS and on our government agencies. However, we do not read a letter in the coalition agreement. In this context, former Minister Jambon had a plan for an internal process of change towards administrative efficiency and the introduction of an accounting system, towards the reform and independence of the Regie into a public limited company under public law. Are you carrying out these plans? Is it your intention to continue with that? After all, they were put in the fridge by the previous coalition. Please explain. Are you carrying out these plans? Do you have your own, new policy vision or will you continue to muddle with it, as was the case in the distant past?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u55	Mr Lachaert, you have indeed just mentioned a very interesting sector, particularly the construction sector. You say that you will reduce VAT with your government from 21% to 6% in relation to demolition and reconstruction. That is indeed a very good thing. We will, of course, support that. At the same time, the construction sector also raises the alarm. This has also been mentioned for a part in the government agreement, in particular in the area of social dumping, which is still a very serious problem in the construction sector. This is a form of unfair competition and leads to a prize that construction companies with employees from here can't just win... I would therefore like to hear from you exactly what you are going to do to tackle this social dumping? Is it intended, for example, that social security should be paid here? What are you prepared to change to the Posting of Workers Directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u56	I will deal with the questions in reverse, because the latter is the most extensive. Firstly, in response to Mr Van Lommel, the fight you mention, against social dumping, is a legitimate fight. Our employees who work here must be able to work in a fair manner in sound working conditions. If there are cases of bogus companies and of people posted from abroad but not working at the minimum wage in Belgium, we must act hard against that. We are also going to strengthen the fight against social fraud. We will invest in inspection services to ensure that they can apply the rules in force. But, Mr Van Lommel, if the rules were to be applied effectively, there would be a much less serious problem than today. Because if you come to work in Belgium, you have to pay the Belgian minimum wage and give all the benefits to the workers who come to work here. That doesn't always happen, and that's a problem. That is why the social inspection must be strengthened in order to take action against it. That's also provided for by this team. The second problem we are facing is the false self-employment. There may be rules for the protection of workers, but if, of course, people come here to work in a bogus company, that is also a problem. We will also step up this fight in order to achieve the objectives you call them. To Mr Rogkeman's second question I can answer that I am standing here to defend the coalition agreement. It is a passage which is not in the government agreement and for which I think you will have to wait for the Minister's policy paper. I do not now feel obliged to take a position on this matter before the Minister responsible. What will happen to Mr Jambon's plans that have not yet been implemented? I apologise for that, but that seems to me to be a real job for the Minister responsible. You will undoubtedly intervene in this House if those policy papers are submitted by the end of the year. Finally, I come to Mr Anseuw's question. I'm looking at that with big eyes anyway. You have already asked that question a number of times, Mr Anseuw. There's nothing planned for activation. I have also noted that you are the only party to rule...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u57	Unbelievable, Mr. Anseeeuw asks questions, but he doesn't let the questioner answer. That's a constant...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u58	Activation is for the Länder. The question is about the closing point in labour market policy, a flexible labour market to say one thing, the posting, indeed. In what way will the government deal with that? That kind of thing is a federal matter. It is the first time I have asked you a question about this. Not about the activation, that's for the states, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u59	I will try to reply again and I understand that people are getting more nervous because they are not affected by the defence of this government. Mr Anseuw, let me reassure you. What is in the federal government agreement does indeed support our labour market and entrepreneurship. Before you interrupted me, I had actually arrived at the support measures we are going to take during the first two years. I will answer that first. You don't have to interrupt me yet. I will deal with your question later. What are we going to do in this crisis period? We are going to take a number of important support measures for companies. We're going to strengthen that reconstruction reserve. We're gonna do that again. This is a very welcome support for many companies that maintain the workforce. That is a tax cut for companies, Mr De Roover. More likely than you'd believe. We will continue with the increased investment deduction. This is also an aid measure for the self-employed and entrepreneurs. You know that together in the Swedish coalition we have invented a system for small entrepreneurs who want to recruit an employee for the first time. Those who have built a case, sometimes very small-scale, but who doubt to hire a staff member, we will once again support it. That's not unimportant. That will be possible again without having to pay RSZ contributions, the so-called golden employee. That's not a cheap move. You can see in the tables what this means. This is once again a form of support that we are going to give to entrepreneurship and to create more jobs. These measures exist and this extension of the golden worker will also be final and structural. I have noted that you are an opponent of the VAT reduction in the construction sector. I think it will be nice for the construction sector to note that the N-VA is against that. What else do we do? On the labour market, we do agree with the principles of the Flemish government agreement in which we want to guide people. We are committed to a tax incentive to provide more guidance and training for business staff and to strengthen them in the labour market. When faced with job losses, they will be better trained to find a new job. We're gonna do that federal thing. We're gonna give that incentive. We are going to make it easier for people living with benefits to move to new jobs by facilitating the accumulation between benefits and work. We're gonna make that more low-threshold. It's in the text. We know this is a big step for a lot of people. We're gonna facilitate that. I'm sure you've also read the chord. Sometimes I wonder, because you always say there's nothing in it. As far as disability is concerned, you know that together we have introduced the reintegration jobs with Maggie De Block. You know this has now been evaluated. You know that many employers are asking to reduce the administrative burden associated with this in order to be able to use it more. They really want to use this more, because there are so many hundreds of thousands of people in the disability that we need to get out of that inactivity and into the labour market in a humane and humane way. People who have left the labour market, but still have something else to do, will be accompanied. We're gonna make these reintegration pathways more low-threshold and easier. There's a whole passage about it in the coalition agreement. We are also going to make companies more flexible at enterprise level, with respect for social dialogue. We're not gonna do that with a Far Westpolitics. If one can conclude an agreement in the company with social dialogue, one can make people work more flexible and give them more autonomy. That's something we've been begging for so long. To give employees and employers a little more autonomy among themselves in order to better reconcile work and private life. So to be honest, I have heard you say a number of times that there is nothing in it. You'll have to read the text. This is quite apart from the fact that we are not going to organise employment conferences with the social partners every year in order to meet the target of 80% of the level of activity. That 80% efficacy rate is not a theory. That's what's gonna happen. You know, all this social expenditure, you said it yourself, must be paid somewhere. If we're gonna do ourselves one favor as a coalition, we're gonna do it together. That's what we agreed to. Because if we increase 1 %, 2 % or 3 %, these are serious income coming in to the government and to social security. We will not then need that rule with a third tax and a third savings. So we have every interest, as a team, as a coalition, in working on that level of effectiveness, and we will do so in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u60	Mr Lachaert, I suspect you're trying to convince yourself. At least you won't convince Professor Stijn Baert. I quote: "The great loser of all this threatens to become the Flemish government. It also started last year with a central ambition to increase the rate of effectiveness by 5 percentage points. With credible measures such as triggering inactive people, the job bonus and investment in childcare aimed at those working. However, without reforms of the burden on labour, unemployment benefits, health insurance and pensions at federal level, the potential of these measures cannot be fully exploited. Your federal government agreement, which you have negotiated as an Open Vldöper, says a labour market specialist and professor, against the Flemish policy that you as an Open Vldöper should also support. I have to say, moreover, that the whole text, as I have read it, says nothing more about the unitary statute for workers and servants, nothing more about collective redundancies in restructuring, nothing more about flexi-jobs, nothing more about the law on competitiveness and the degressivity of unemployment benefits that has just been asked about. You didn't answer that. So perhaps you will convince yourself, but not those who follow labour market policy professionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u61	Mr De Roover, I do not want to repeat myself. You're criticizing Stijn Baert. I'll probably have another coffee with Stijn soon to explain that to him. I think he did his tweet at a time when the text was hardly known. I will perhaps also present Stijn Baert with another text, in particular the one I have already referred to a few times. That is your own grand accord avec le PS, in which I searched with a large magnifying glass for those activating measures on labour market reforms and found one sentence of four lines. That's the activation policy of the N-VA. Then I'm a little more proud of what this coalition will do. I think that we can then continue with pensions, colleagues. Pensions: an important road for this coalition. Money is provided for a substantial increase in these pensions. You have seen that in the envelope of EUR 2 billion for the new social policy there are several components. The increase in the lowest benefits was also mentioned in the previous government agreement, but that is difficult to implement, because that measure does indeed cost money. But we are also going to increase pensions. There are two sources of funding. There is the prosperity envelope, the bien-être envelope, the 100% être dépensée, which is published for 100 %, as under the Michael administration. But this government is putting a shovel on top of it. EUR 1 billion is foreseen to further increase these pensions. That is the path to the 1,500 euro net per month. Will that be fully achieved? That will depend on the circumstances, but, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the lowest pensions are rising. I do not think anyone can oppose it, and I am also pleased that all the statutes are respected in it. It is for the employees... the officials usually have a higher pension..... but also for the self-employed. As a liberal, I am very pleased that the self-employed, who have historically always had a much lower pension than others, will now actually be able to enjoy the EUR 1,500 net. Mr. De Roover, before you throw Professor Stijn Baert in my face again. I know Stijn Baert also says that in order to keep that affordable, there must also be reforms. That's what we're gonna do. The Minister of Pensions has a commitment to come forward with a reform by 1 July next year. This will be about the conditions of access to that minimum pension, because it is natural from the point of view of social justice or ordinary justice that a person who has worked a lifetime should have access to it. But that this is hard to defend for someone who's had a lifetime of treated times. We put that on the table and our coalition partners followed us. The idea that there has to be a minimum condition in there, we are going to work out. You don't have to worry. We are going to make sure that this justice is included in order to keep the system affordable. Another important road that everyone has been talking about for years, let's look at last year's election results, and then you know that it's important -- security is the issue. Security is a core task of the government. Safety isn't left or right. Safety is something that affects all people. Small forms of crime that are not being tackled feed anti-politics. We know that. This coalition is going to invest heavily in justice and police for the first time in a long time. A substantial amount has been provided to finally recruit those police officers to complete the framework. Money has finally been provided for the Justice Department: EUR 250 million per year, so as to be able to complement the frameworks and work properly there. We are finally going to put Justice, colleague Van Quickenborne, on the digitisation train that she has to take to be a performer in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u62	Mr Lachaert, it is a bit weird, but after twelve hours of debate, you are the first group leader to talk about security, with the exception of my own group leader, of course. I find that very strange, because over the past year you cannot say, no one here can claim, that insecurity was not one of the hot issues in our country. I would like to hear you say that a number of budgetary measures are being taken. However, I do wonder whether the budgets that are now foreseen are talking about EUR 250 million for the Justice Department, but I have interrupted you, perhaps you will also have an amount on the police and the security services will be sufficient to meet the great needs. You know these are very large. There are not only the needs of the police world itself. We discussed this for a long time in our committee. It's also about a raise. It's also about a shortage of staff. But of course it is also about the security of our citizens, about the problems in our cities. I wonder how much this government intends to commit to this over the next three years. Because to which everyone should be entitled, that is to a safe, healthy society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u63	Mr. Chairman, at last Justice. It's been waiting all day. So thank you, Mr Lachaert, for bringing it up, because we have been promised some rock-and-roll in that department. You're already starting with the budget. You are talking about EUR 250 million. The minister said 300 million euros on the radio yesterday. We've already lost 50. So with the EUR 300 or 250 million, he has to manage computerization, increase compensation in pro-Deo files, support prisons and psychiatric centres. I wonder if we're gonna come up with it. I sincerely hope so, because I agree that we can invest in the department. Of course, bags of money alone is not enough. You have to assign them properly. But with that rock-and-roll I do have a question, Mr President. When you read the coalition chord, you think: sounds big, very good. Until you start scratching on that varnish layer, like scratching off the grey-silver with a scratch, and then you see that you didn't win. I had a bit of that feeling, because it reads really good, but I'm worried that we're gonna end up landing at... on the left. I have some examples of this. The budget is one thing. I wonder if we're gonna come up with it, but okay. I am very pleased that we are going to take a harder approach to recidivists. That's literally what it says. There's no record of how you're gonna do that. Is the Lejeune Act being amended? Shall we increase punishment? The only concrete example I can find in the text is that we are going to work with a driving licence with points. That's what we're gonna do to the recidivists. I would like to know from you how we are going to do this in concrete terms. Secondly, another example of this, you are going to ask for input to find a solution for prisoners who, after their punishment, still remain dangerous to society and to protect society from it. You're going to ask input for that. A little further you write that we are going to implement the recommendations of the POC Attacks. If we read these recommendations correctly, there is the solution. That's the posting. But you still have to ask for input? You shouldn't do that anymore. That input has been requested. That dossier is ahead of us, so I assume you will support it, so that we can approve it. Thirdly, the legislative work. There are a lot of projects ahead of it. Your predecessor has already done a great deal. There are a lot of lyrics in the drawer and you build on that. That's good. The Committee on Justice is a committee that works hard and is very happy to do so. So I look forward to it. But I'm reading a few things that still trigger me a little bit and make me think that it might not be heavy but rather left. I don't think it's wrong to evaluate the buy-back law. I don't think it's wrong for you to change them. But he was a brainchild of Mrs. Van Cauter. I'm surprised to read that. I read something like: we're gonna think about ecocide. All right, Mr Lachaert, but I'm missing something, namely your stick horse. We worked on that together. I know you've given up a lot for purple-green, but apparently so have. Mr Lachaert, what are we gonna do about the squatting next week? Can we vote on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u64	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, do you really think that with the budget you have just listed, you can achieve all the projects announced in the Justice section? Because it is precisely the ambition of the future Justice Minister to eliminate everything that has gone wrong in the past in the field of justice, and that is quite a bit of a four-year process. You are talking about EUR 250 million. I'm just gonna get an illustration of things in your government statement. The new construction of three forensic psychiatric centers, accounting for 240 million euros. The courthouse in Brussels: 80 million euros. The cost of the prison in Dendermonde, which should normally be ready by 2025, EUR 194 million. Mr Lachaert, I would like to say nothing about the much-needed renovation of many other highly outdated prisons and courthouses in this country that need to be dealt with at a high rate of urgency. For one thing must also be borne in mind: this country has been condemned on several occasions for the inhuman conditions and overpopulation in prisons. If I look only at the three points I have listed, then the budget is completely up-to-date. In fact, you don't even have enough budget to do that. And what about the other priorities? For example, reference is made to the magistrate. The magistrate must indeed be thoroughly revalued, because there is a fundamental error in the organisation of the magistrate when we see how many vacancies, both in the sitting and in the standing magistrate, are not filled. In the standing magistrate, that is 20% of the vacancies. At the sitting magistrate, it's even worse. There it is 30% and we have even come so far that for a number of open vacancies there are no more interested candidates. Precisely because the statute is not good at the moment. Then it is very important to release funds for the revaluation of the magistrate. Secondly, in four years' time, you will eliminate the legal backlog. I wish the Minister of Justice every success, and I will support him in that. In four years' time. That is a promise we heard from Verhofstadt in 2003. Now, seventeen years later, that will be announced again. But it costs money. Money that's definitely not here today. In what way that will happen without sufficient budgets, I have my questions. You refer to the problem of computerization, where there is urgent work to be done. I read literally in this coalition agreement, and I quote for a moment: 'The thorough computerisation of justice is being continued.' That's literally what it says. Mr Lachaert, is that a joke? Dare speak of persevered computerization. I would advise you to speak with people on the premises, with magistrates, with people from the parquets and with the clerks. Today, the digitisation of justice is only in its infancy. I have just read the Court of Auditors' report on the execution of penalty payments. I had that on me by accident. All of these recommendations are made by the Court of Auditors to urgently mobilise a great deal of resources for this digitisation. Also the reform of the law... (The President cut off the speaker and pointed out that the time had come) These are all questions to Mr Lachaert. I'm gonna finish up. I hope that later I will have time to finish my speech, although I have taken my serious doubts into account about the hour that has come. Perhaps we should have organised the debate in a different way. But that's another discussion. You're also talking about safety. That's what you started and that's what I'm gonna end up with. When I see what is in the Justice section, there is only one thing I can derive from this: there will be no question of a tough approach to crime with this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u65	Mr President, I am trying to speak two more sentences. I am glad that there is so much interest in Justice and Security and that that gives some enthusiasm. I am also pleased that there are parties that support more investment in Justice. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have to explain some basic accounting. When I talk about the EUR 250 million for Justice, that is in the recurrent expenditure of Justice. That goes to staff. Mrs Dillen, that's not about the new building of prisons. Mrs. De Wit, that's not about digitisation. Those are investments. You are also mayor, so you know the difference between an investment budget and an operating budget. So a little lesson in that. Investments are another parameter. That's somewhere else. We are going to look for that money to build the planned prisons and to carry out the digitisation. What we are doing now, no government has been able to do lately. Recurrent, every year, EUR 250 million extra for the operation of Justice and for the police an additional EUR 100 million per year in men and not in material. So in terms of effective spending every year until 2024 and later. That should be enough to bring about a better justice system. If we enter into dialogue with the Justice Department, we will also be able to improve the processes, so that we can actually start with such a budget in terms of digitisation, to implement a form of rapid justice, to tackle small crime and to deal with the backlog. It's gotta be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u66	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, I actually have a little bit to do with you, so constantly being interrupted when you want to set up a whole discourse. I apologize for taking the risk of interfering. I don't have the habit of interrupting people much, but I'm still taking this opportunity. You have indeed talked about this recurrent expenditure and basic accounting. I fully agree with that. In that sense, you were in the process of listing what these recurrent expenditures are in the field of security. I think that is a very interesting statement. I must also say to my fellow Members that they did not allow you to make the full statement, because I thought you were just going to tell me how much of this recurrent expenditure goes to the Defense Department. I also hope to receive a concrete response in this area, because we have all adopted here a resolution by the PS Group calling for additional investment in defence personnel policy. There's a plea from the CHOD, the top defense officer, to invest extra in Defense. My specific question is, therefore, how much re-current will be invested in the operation and personnel of the Defence Department, because the budget table, the A4 we have received, does not provide us with any insight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u67	I come back to the last point made by Mr Lachaert. A plea for swift justice, Mr Lachaert. You will not be surprised that you find an absolute supporter in the Flemish interest to achieve this, because we have been in favour of a lick-on policy for many years. The question then is simply "to which I would like to have an answer'. How do you intend to achieve that in concrete terms? The means will not be there to realise all the beautiful promises, and given the emptying of the parquets that we know today, there will be no men to organise that quick justice. I would like a very clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Lachaert, you talked about an investment of 250 million and that's very good, that's a very good thing. Even if in Belgium, we still remain the poor pupils in Europe, with an investment of 0.7% of GDP, while the European average is 2.2%. So there's still a big margin and 250 million, but it's still not enough. But I just wanted to ask you two concrete questions. What will these 250 million be invested in? Because there is a huge shortage of prison staff, which has been expressed on several occasions, including by several strikes in recent years. And the Swedish government's response was to set up the minimum service to prevent workers from going on strike to defend their rights and defend an investment in more staff. So my question is very clear: is there a budget in these 250 million to hire new staff for our prisons? This is my first question. Secondly, will part of these budgets also be integrated into access to justice? The right to strike is strengthened. We are told that in the government agreement it will be evaluated, that we will evaluate and see what we are doing. But the reality is that this right has been strongly strengthened, making access to justice increasingly difficult. Will we reverse this right to strike? That was my second question. Another question about VAT on lawyers' fees, which has been increased to 21%: will we reverse this increase in VAT to make justice more accessible and will these 250 million really be invested in more rights to justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u69	A modest remark from your chairman. Mr Lachaert stands in the gallery for two hours and has spoken or spent 20 minutes on his own intervention. For the rest, he has all answered questions, which, of course, are all deducted from speaking time. That is what the Rules of Procedure want. Your chairman does not ask questions about this today, but do you think that is a good way of working? I would simply like to say that 40 speakers have also been included in the thematic discussions. Finally, I would like to say that we are flying out of here at 3.00 a.m. and that we may have to make an appointment at 2.45 p.m. on the further work. However, Mr Lachaert, do not let this deter you, because your answers are sometimes shorter than the questions asked, but it is not that they are therefore less accurate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I can tell you that I'm about halfway there. If it lasts 2 hours and 20 minutes, I fear that there will not be much time left for the other fellow Members. But I still feel fit, no problem. No injuries from COVID. Let's get on with it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that there are a number of questions, such as those of Mr Boukili, to which I would like to reply that I am not the Minister of Justice. I don't write the policy letters either. You will be able to ask questions about this in Parliament. With regard to the actual implementation of budgets, I propose that I be very brief on this and that you ask these questions at the end of the year when the budget is being dealt with and we will finally have a budget tabled in our country again. Mr. Peter Buysrogge had a question about Defense. There is a line in the investments, but you will still have to wait until that budget is really knocked off, until you will see all the details of it. In any case, I know that additional resources are provided, but how much will you hear in those budget discussions? And what exactly will happen to that. The situation of the public prosecutors: I fully understand that, but frankly, I am standing here to deal with a declaration of government and not the concrete operation of the public prosecutors and what needs to be done there. So, honestly, I'm gonna be a little bit shorter about it anyway. Otherwise, I fear that we are going to stand here all evening and that I am actually out of my role as a Member of Parliament who is intervening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u71	I'll be brief. Mr Lachaert was right to point out to me that I needed to know a little bookkeeping. Investment, recurrent expenditure, I totally agree with that. But when you put a prison, once it's there, you have to maintain it, then you have to pay the staff: that's recurrent. But let's just forget about that for a second. The pro-Deo contributions will be increased and revised. For this, legislative proposals have been tabled by Green. At cruising speed, that means 200 million euros a year. Minister Van Quickenborne, of your 250, you have already lost 200 million euros. You're talking about the budget, not me. I just asked the question. Are you gonna make a living with it? I hope so, because I think the Justice Department needs it. But I think that here too the flou artistique with a line in the budgets shows that it is written, but will not end well. Scratch that f.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u72	Mr De Wit, you know, of course, that there has been anarchy in Parliament with all kinds of proposals in all directions. That will indeed end now and there will have to be agreements on all kinds of proposals to ensure that this is coherent in a budget. The anarchy of publishing is indeed over. It's gonna have to fit into a budget. Colleague, I know that the dynamics of cooperation with other parties are not so easy for you. I understand that. But if one is in a coalition, one must consult with one another. There are legislative proposals now in Parliament, Mrs De Wit, which we will be discussing as a coalition. We will then give the answer at that time as to what is happening with the pending legislative proposals. We'll let you know. Then you can take your position on that and determine your voting behaviour at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u73	Just one sentence, Mr President. Mr Lachaert, I find it really scandalous that you are calling the increase in income for the pro-Deo lawyers, and in order to gain access to it, something that has become possible in the context of the anarchy that would have prevailed in Parliament or in the Committee on Justice over the past year. There was a real need for this on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u74	Look, Mrs Dillen, we can see many proposals that you have voted with the PVDA in all kinds of areas that have cost taxpayers a great deal of money. Now you're here to ask questions about the budget. The anarchy has been there for the last year and with this coalition there will be stability and a long-term policy. Indeed, that anarchy is over. Colleagues, the climate challenge, it happens here and now. We have to act. We can deny that, but we still see year after year the consequences of global warming. They are noticeable in all kinds of areas. This coalition subscribes to the ambitious goals that the EU also has with the Green Deal. We're taking ambitious steps. You have also seen the innovations we want to make in the construction sector in relation to the improvement and renovation, making it more energy efficient. The greening of commercial vehicles has been mentioned, and an additional investment will also be made in SNCB. The SNCB, which has a major problem this year, with a deficit. We will provide money for SNCB to carry out its task properly. If we are going to make investments, green investments, perhaps even a piece of European money, we will also be able to use SNCB to modernise the park, which is necessary to have sound public transport. Colleagues, a better Belgium. I've already mentioned that. We are preparing a state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u75	Mr Lachaert, you are talking about the modernisation of SNCB. We also discussed earlier in this sitting that there is indeed a great voluntarism in your agreement to improve services. But it is quite remarkable that your policy paper is a lot less ambitious when it comes to structural improvements in the form and organisation of SNCB. For example, cautious openings are being made towards liberalisation, step-by-step. It's a good initiative. The fact that you are initially extending SNCB's monopoly for a further ten years is something I can understand. But what I do not understand is that you do not want to take advantage of that ten-year period to really make that transition to liberalisation clear. The steps you take in your agreement are very modest. There is only a pilot project, and this is the biggest reform of SNCB since it was founded 94 years ago. And what do you say in preparation for this liberalisation? We're gonna do a pilot project. We have just heard from the Minister that he is not even sure whether it will actually be put into the tender or not. I think that is very modest. It doesn't show much ambition. This is all the more true when it comes to structural improvements in services, a fundamental shift in, for example, the promotion of punctuality that might arise from the introduction of a cadanised offer. That is also mentioned in your agreement, Mr Lachaert. A cadancing offer, very interesting, because almost every railroad expert and a lot of people from civil society are asking for it. So it's a good thing that's going to happen. But what do you write in your text? That you're going to study that, with a horizon on....hold on...................................................................................................................................................... You're going to study that new offer from SNCB for 20 years. Twenty years! That's long enough to write five full PhDs about it. You do not transfer its implementation to the next government, even to the government after the next government, and not even to the next government after that. On the contrary, you see the implementation of these four legislative hours in the future. Liberalisation is also being pushed forward neatly. I ask you, Mr Lachaert, what is ambitious about that? Where do you see this modernisation? You are talking about ambition; well, I see a very low bar against the ground, very low to be able to move there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u76	Thank you, Mr Roggeman, for your intervention. We have managed this country together for four years, four and a half years, and the initiatives that are now there, I have never seen them under Michel. We are indeed going to ensure that SNCB can carry out its task. And to say that for the next ten years, within the decade, you will be able to privatise immediately... Let us be honest, you know the file and you know that something like this needs to be prepared for which we are not ready at the moment. But we are going, and that is the first time, to do pilot projects on private companies that can work in certain regions in conjunction with SNCB and be able to operate on the supply side. That's the first time we've done that. That is a good way of gradually preparing the liberalization of the rail market in a calm manner. It's a release that's still prescribed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u77	I hear Mr Lachaert say here that the government will ensure that SNCB will carry out its tasks. Now there are still a lot of big challenges. Let me just mention the punctuality figures that have not yet reached the desired level, the obsolete equipment, the poor infrastructure, the failing accessibility policy and the dissatisfied staff. I would also like to mention the problems of capacity, a poor transport plan with obvious connections for passenger transport and freight which are missing, and finally, perhaps also a failing safety policy which does not deal with increasing aggression towards staff and passengers. I had hoped to be able to read a little more concrete about this, because these are not problems that have arisen from today's tomorrow. But that's where I'm gonna sit on my hunger. All this will have to be put into a very important document, in particular the management agreement. Let it be just the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutordoir, who begs for such a management agreement every time she comes to Parliament. It begs the federal government to have a clear vision of the mobility process with the same policy objectives and a clear portfolio of financial resources associated with it. For example, it knows what public service mission it will have to carry out with SNCB. If I hear Mr Lachaert say that we are going to ensure that SNCB carries out its tasks, can I assume this time that, contrary to the previous legislature, a management agreement will be concluded with SNCB, and if so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u78	Mr Lachaert, it was clear that with the pilot project on which my colleague had just asked a question, you would like to go further along the path of privatisation and liberalisation. That is how I have read it very clearly, unlike the fellow Members of the N-VA. This project is a further liberalisation and privatisation of SNCB. We are asking for even more profitability and more productivity of the workforce, while 7 000 people have been working less in the last ten years. People are going to have to work even harder and people will continue to liberalise. The Liberals even say that bpost is a good example for SNCB. I can assure you that in recent weeks I have intervened in Parliament around bpost. It's not a good example if the manager who's running bpost is totally compromised because of fraud. If that's the expertise you want to give to SNCB, then we've left for a bad public transport. However, this is important for us in the context of climate change. On the contrary, we must invest a great deal in this and ensure that there is sufficient staff to enable SNCB to function properly. We should not privatise, because we know very well what happened in England. That's where they come back now and want to nationalize them again. The example of the Netherlands shows it very well, because prices are rising and the trains are no longer staffed by staff. There is no staff at the counters either. That is what will happen if we implement the project you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u79	With all due respect, chairman and fellow Members, these are interventions that can be perfectly discussed with the Minister for Mobility in the Mobility Committee. But this isn't a question, it's not even a question. So, with all due respect, I'm still heading towards the end of my intervention... I fear, Mr President, that this will be a very difficult matter in terms of timing...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u80	Mr Toventors, you asked a question. Mr Lachaert has said two sentences and you raise your hand again. That is not a serious way of debating it! Mr Lachaert, please continue. I will give you the floor again if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u81	Mr President, I will go to the end of my speech, even out of respect for all the speakers who have yet to follow. Synthesizing: this government is facing a crucial task. We are experiencing a period in which the health care crisis is still raging. That will be the first task of this team, which took an oath yesterday and which will ask for confidence in this Parliament tomorrow, on which you will be able to vote. This government will have to contain the crisis and get us out of it with the necessary support and without leaving anyone behind. This government will also have to be the government that is moving our country back in a correct and respectful way and that respects each other's differences of opinion. This government will not show the harshness that some others show in their interventions and thus give the citizen a great abomination of that policy. We have to deal with each other with respect and trust, and that will be the strength of this team, led by the Prime Minister. Our democracy is too valuable and too important to be destroyed by conflict and stagnation. I have not denied that reforms are needed in this country. Structurally, on the labour market and in taxation, but also on many issues relating to security: all the concerns that my fellow Members share and which they will be able to discuss with the relevant ministers in Parliament in the near future. All these things will have to be done to get this country back in order by 2030. The bar of this team may be high. We must show ambition, because that will also be the way in which ordinary citizens can regain enthusiasm for politics. I am also very pleased that there is a piece of democratic innovation in it. Mr Calvo has played his part in this, with beautiful things such as voting rights from 16 years before the EU elections. That kind of thing brings enthusiasm again. Bottom-up ideas grow. With a civil platform involving people in our democracy and showing openness. That will help our politics to restore that credibility. Prime Minister, under your leadership, our country can and will do well and do better. You will therefore have the full confidence of our group, and I would like to thank once again, as a former pre-former and missionary, everyone for good will, for genuine good will, everyone who has struck these difficult bridges to work together and give this country a perspective back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u82	Please stand still, because there are still a few people who absolutely want to say something to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have indeed waited until the end of your speech, Mr Lachaert, because I am actually a little disappointed. In the last part, you mentioned that this government will go against the harshness. That may be your idea, but you have said very little about those slightly softer sectors. I am surprised that you are not talking about development cooperation, with a Prime Minister who was the previous Minister for Development Cooperation and who worked very hard on it. Yesterday in the government statement, the Prime Minister said very proudly that this team counts half the women. I know that he means that, because I know that in his time as Minister of Development, he has been very hard on women's rights, SheDecides. We've all seen him on stage and that was good. We have also worked very well together on the bill on sexual abuse. However, in this text I miss a great deal of ambition in the field of development cooperation and I wonder how the transfer of development cooperation to the new Minister of State will go. How does the Minister view that? Will his efforts be cancelled? There was also an intervention on innovation just now and the Prime Minister talked about the need to innovate. Nor can innovation be found in development cooperation. You were talking about digitization; you were talking about digital illiteracy. What are you going to do about it now? What is this government going to do about that? What I no longer see are those specific partner countries. Will you opt for the regions of the outermost regions, the large regions of the outermost regions, the small regions of the outermost regions? It's all not concrete. Like the SDGs, you've been on it, but I don't see any prioritization. Where does this government go in terms of development cooperation? What do we want and what country do we want to be? Prime Minister, you have made a great deal of work on funding to involve the private sector. But I do not find this innovative funding in the coalition agreement. I will end, Mr President and Prime Minister, with Enabel. I read literally in the coalition agreement that there must be synergy between European policy and Belgian policy. Will you then cut off the wings that Enabel has spread, the good work they have done, the international actor they have become, the partner of Flanders they have become? Should we be worried?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u84	Mr Lachaert, my respect for the Vivaldi project was not very great, but if you do not want to answer a simple, simple question and even walk away...I simply asked whether, contrary to the previous legislature, in which you were present and what you left behind, you would conclude a management agreement with SNCB? That is not only a question from me but also from a large public body. The fact that you are running away does not really reassure me, because it seems to me that there is a total lack of a mobility vision. Can you confirm to me, just a simple yes or no, whether or not you will draw up the management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Lachaert, you have talked a great deal about the citizen. But I'm actually wondering if you've talked to the citizen before. Your predecessor, Mr Verherstraeten, managed to speak one sentence about migration on a whole speech of about half an hour. However, a subject of which a lot of citizens are awake, I can tell you, and which a lot of citizens are working on. Isn't migration important to your group? You didn't say anything about it. I don't feel like it. Not a word. There's been no mention of it. I'm not gonna lecture you here. I have a very specific question for you, Mr Lachaert. Unlike your predecessor who did not reply, I hope you will give a concrete answer. How will you increase the return rates of illegal migrants? Please respond very concretely how you will do that. A more humane policy, that is not a concrete answer. Nor is it a concrete answer that you are going to look for alternatives to forced return. I would like a specific answer to that very clear question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u86	I have actually only heard one specific question. That's Mr Van Langenhove's. The other interventions are, frankly, not addressed to me. Mr Van Langenhove, indeed, we will have to pursue a firm and correct return policy in relation to people who are illegally staying on our territory. We will have to build the infrastructure projects that are planned to create those detention centres. There are two projects planned. We're gonna do it, too, and if one of them got stuck, we're gonna have to find an alternative. There must be sufficient capacity to do so. For the rest, we must try as much as possible to conclude those return agreements. As the previous government has done, we will now try to do the same. What we are going to do about this asylum policy, Mr Van Langenhove, is to speak a more human language. Return policy is a part of asylum policy. You're right, but we're going to talk about that in a human way. We're still talking about people. We're gonna have to send it back. That's part of the job. But it's still people and we're going to talk about it that way, in a humane way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u87	I would now like to give the floor to the new leader of the sp.a., Mrs Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u88	Prime Minister, President, ladies and gentlemen, at last! Finally, there is a coalition agreement and at last it is up to me to say something about it today, after a long time. Finally, there is a government that will do what we have to do, in particular, to find solutions to people's daily concerns. Before that, we have also worked and fought hard as a party over the past few months. Always the same, the content first and the people first. It has not been an easy journey, but I am proud that we can stand here today to defend what is ahead. Finally it is over with the standstill and done with political games. There's a government going to work for everyone who's having a hard time right now. That government will do that by investing, by investing in the best care, in jobs, in better wages, in higher pensions. Investing in security and a better planet. Investing in people's future. That's where we're gonna make the difference. The corona crisis has once again proved that we are experiencing a difficult period and that good health is the most important thing in life. Our caregivers have been working for this day and night for months. They have been struggling to do so and have done so in vain. Often with risk derivatives for their own health. And what do they get for that? Let's hear it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But that doesn't make you much. They can't put that in their sandwich. Today they finally get the respect they really deserve, because this government is going to invest in them. It will do so by providing them with better working conditions, but also by investing in additional staff and 4,500 additional people, additional colleagues. This government will also make a raise. That is the investment they have been asking for months and years. That is the support they have been expecting from us for years. That's where we make the difference. That's not just investing in jobs. Investing in care is also investing in the patients and the invoices. That's what we're gonna do. Because in a country like ours, in a prosperous country such as Belgium, it is really not normal for some people to postpone a doctor's visit because they are afraid of the invoice, of the costs involved. In a country like ours, it is not normal for people not to always be able to count on the best care they need at the time. Just because they're thinking about their wallet, about the financial worries that that entails.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. First and foremost, congratulations on your group chairmanship. I am interrupting you because you have just spoken about the resources for the care sector in the corona crisis. It is, of course, a very good thing that the working conditions and wages of those people in the care sector will be upgraded and revalidated, but that also applies, of course, to all those other people who have made our country run in the corona crisis: those rack fillers, those truck drivers, those postmen, those cleaning helpers and so on. The sp.a has always advocated this, including an improvement in the minimum wage. Think of the Fight for 14 euros. But I do notice certain contradictions: if we look at the coalition agreement, at least the wage freeze is going on in spirit. The salary law of 96 and its tightening in 2017, in which the wages of the working people are actually fixed in that straitjacket of wage blocking, remains in place. In this sense, it is a pity that, before accession to the government, we should also strongly urge that wages be restored for all those people who have made the country turn, and this will of course remain a dead letter. Unless, of course, you say, "Look, we're gonna get rid of this pay bill." However, we are going to ensure that the social partners in certain sectors can negotiate these wages freely. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. It says that an exception can be made by means of conversion letters. What exactly is the meaning of that? If everything stays the way it is, then of course it stays with lip service, with promises. I hope that for those people who have turned our country into a corona crisis, there is something in the future. I would have liked to have heard that from you. What do you think of that and what do you intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u90	Mr Depraetere, I do have a few questions for your group as far as health is concerned. You talked about accessible care and people who don't have it so easy to go to the doctor, to the pharmacist, to the dentist. Your group has tabled a number of legislative proposals on free care and the free story. What will you do with that? They are on the agenda and will be dealt with in the near future. Are you holding on to it? Or did you have to pay a price in connection with the free story in the coalition? I'd like to know. I would also like to know what your group is thinking today about the wage supplements. Because when I look at the government a little bit, I think there are very different views about that. I also asked Mr Laaouej that question about the legislative proposals and I did not receive an answer. I hope I can get that now, because I thought you belonged to the same family. As far as regionalization is concerned, I have heard your minister, our guardian minister, say certain things. Other cases than some of the people in the government here have told you. Then I would like to know: what does the sp.a group currently think about regionalisation, territorialisation, patient-to-patient care, patient-to-patient care, so Flemish care? I have worked very well with the sp.a group in the past year. We have put forward very nice legislative proposals and we have also achieved nice things about transparency on pharmaceutical deals, for example. How do you deal with that today? I read in the coalition agreement that you will go to European systems for the negotiation of medication. I refer here, for example, to the deal our government has made with the European Commission on the COOVID vaccines. I have been asking for the deal for three to six weeks in the context of transparency and public administration. I can't get that deal. How will your group deal with this? Is that now the new vision of the sp.a.? Will you be able to guarantee that transparency about the reimbursement of the medicines, about the deals you make about medicines, or will you abandon them? We have also worked well together on medical needs and compassionate use. It has been said in the last committee that this should be fully reviewed. I don't read any of this in the coalition agreement. Can you tell me what your vision is today? And finally, Chairman, the smoke-free generation. There is currently a discussion on Twitter about the budget figures: are they cumulative now, or are they not cumulative? For excise duties on tobacco, you have registered 480 million euros in the last year. Is this EUR 120 million four times or is it an excise duty going up in the course of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u91	I would just point out that all of this takes much longer than the two minutes provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Everyone goes on and on, but that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u92	Mr President, I will come to the subject of labour and wages. There is a great deal in this coalition agreement on labour. There is also a great deal in the totality of the government agreement on social measures for everyone who is struggling. That is indeed about the cleaning lady and about the garbageman, about the shopkeeper and about everyone who has been working hard over the last few months and has done so before. There is a great deal in the agreement on this, and that has also been part of the approach of this coalition agreement, of course. We are talking about the strengthening of purchasing power, about reducing a lot of costs, about the debt industry. I'll get to it later. Then it's about better pensions and better pay. It is about a total package, about tackling invoices also in health care. If we add up all these measures, that is a very nice and robust package, I think. Is that enough? No. You'll never hear me say that's enough. The coalition agreement is not my party program. You will never hear me say that, but it is a very strong step in the right direction and the only right step in the right direction. So I am very satisfied with that myself. Mrs Depoorter, your intervention has surprised me a little, to be honest. You ask a lot of questions about the Health Department, about accessibility, about free care and about legislative proposals. Mrs Depoorter, if there is one department for which we Socialists are incredibly proud of what is in this coalition agreement, then it is Public Health. I think that's obvious. Surely you cannot deny that there will be a huge investment in our public health here... a turnaround from what has happened in recent years. There will be incredibly much investment, not only in staff, also in the patient, and yes, there are also options to add free care to that. That can be perfect, we have a very competent minister who will work that out in the coming period. That's also about better refunds. This is also about refunds of glasses, of hearing aids and so on. That's what that's about. But perhaps give the government a moment to come up with a concrete proposal. Our legislative proposals or those of our family, the PS, will not just disappear into the trash, of course not. Those ideas are also very much in this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u93	The chairman's giving me a little priority. Normally I always let the women go first, that's in my upbringing. Mr President, in der Beschränkung says sich erst der Meister. I'll try to be very short. Mr Depraetere, I have two very specific questions for you concerning those 4,500 jobs that you would like to see in the context of care staff and nursing staff. Quite specifically: what time horizon do you see for that? Second question: where are you going to get it? There, Mr President, I leave the other two minutes to the other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u94	Yes, my colleague, you can of course be proud of your coalition agreement. It would be a shame if you weren't, frankly. You also say you've worked hard on it. But you didn't answer my questions at all. So I have to conclude, as I have been saying all day, that a lot of things have not been knocked off and that there are a lot of vague passages in there that will be filled in according to the government's insights. Then I ask myself how you will solve that within the government, because you have no answer to that today. I expect a lot to be talked about until we have a real health plan and until we can really move forward for our patients. Ten years and we're on the same footing as we are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u95	Mr President, a number of questions put by Mrs Depoorter are now on the committee's agenda on Tuesday. Please let us discuss this on Tuesday. Mrs. Depoorter, we've had a good partnership from time to time. We're gonna talk about that. About the reward supplements, you can read. That's what we're gonna talk about. There is a clear sentence in it with regard to the pay supplements, framed in hospital funding. Hopefully we'll talk about that intellectually correctly, but you should have looked now. It says in "Stabilize" and then "Stabilize" and then "Stabilize." It can't be any clearer. I hope you will then give the support for that. The 4,500 employees... I'm just saying, we'll have that discussion, and we've had it. The money is provided for that. The social partners are in the process of implementing it. The social partners are gonna say it to those people. [[The President interrupted the speaker.]] We will discuss it further in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u96	We are here in plenary. Rendez-vous Tuesday at 10:00!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u97	Mr President, I would like to return to the issue of accessibility, because that is one of the most important points in the subject. Anyone who breaks his leg today will go to the emergency room and gets out of there in a couple of hours with a cast and a couple of crutches. We all think that's normal, and it's just as well. That's perfectly normal. But those who need mental care must have a lot of patience and a lot of budget. We're gonna do something about that, too. That is why this government is making a budget available for a better reimbursement of that mental health care. Colleagues, health is our greatest asset. That's why we're going to invest in personnel. That's why we're going to invest in the best care. That's where we make the difference, colleagues. Investing now is the only way, or the best way, to get us out of the crisis and to move forward again. In this way, we can overcome not only the corona crisis, but also the economic crisis and also our future. Investing, that's about a lot more than pennies. Investing, that's also about people, especially people, about all those people you were talking about earlier, about postmen, about shopkeepers, about teachers, about cops and so on. All the people who make our country run and who did so before Corona, who do so now during Corona, but who will continue to do so later on with the same commitment. They deserve our respect and respect, Prime Minister, as I read in this coalition agreement. Respect in the form of better wages and respect in the form of a good pension and not promises from the sidelines, but a real form of respect and real concrete measures. It's basically simple for our party. Those who work their whole lives, those who contribute their lives, are entitled to a decent and good pension at the end of the journey. We indeed promised a pension of 1,500 euros, that is true. I hear a lot of colleagues here today who are worried about Conner's bomba. I'd be more than happy to pass on her phone number. You can meet up with her and ask her questions straight away. But I can reassure you, because Conner's bomba has noticed that this government is really going to invest very heavily in those pensions. Conner's bomba has understood that it is a real punishment to do so in a period of crisis and to invest EUR 2 billion in these pensions at the moment. Conner's bomba has also really understood that the penalty is to increase those lowest pensions by 20%. That is an achievement and that is the choice we make, and that is a choice for people who have worked their lives. We do that to reward them and to make a difference for them, to give them security on a good pension. That is the choice we make, and that is where we make the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u98	Mrs Depraetere, you are indeed talking about pensions, about dignified pensions, about a pension of EUR 1,500. It has become a bit of a symbol, of course. I have heard a great deal of majority here in this hemisphere: net, gross, a growth path, towards EUR 1,500. Can you also give us clear wine on this for the sake of clarity? Because the coalition is named after a composer, but apparently the violins in your own team don't get very like-minded. To say that for the people on the ground, for the people who are having a very difficult time, such a signal is also very important, as we are, of course, already with the lowest pensions in Western Europe. I also have an additional question, of course, because it is also about career conditions. In fact, you can only be entitled to that 1,500 euro pension if you have worked for 45 years. That is a bit of a contradiction or a contradiction with what is also contained in the government agreement on women's rights or gender equality. After all, you know that most women do not get 45 years at the moment, just because of this gender inequality, of course, just because a lot of women have done domestic work, worked part-time and therefore have not built up pension rights, but have often worked just as hard or even harder. Those women are not going to be helped with a pension of 1,500 euros if they had to work for 45 years first. If you really want to focus on gender equality, how can you reconcile that with the fact that you only want to give these women a pension of EUR 1,500, which will probably not be EUR 1,500, if I hear fellow citizens after a career of 45 years? How are you going to deal with that? How are you going to take care of those most vulnerable women, those single women, who have often worked part-time? How are you gonna take it with you in that story?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised at your question. If you're talking about a lack of clarity between the Vivaldi parties about net or gross... In fact, I have been constantly establishing today, and I cannot count on how many hours we are already debating this issue, which you have asked the same question over and over and over again, a hundred times. The same answer has also been given every time. But you seem to choose to interpret that in your own way. There's a document waiting for you. There is a coalition agreement and there is a very clear sentence in it. It is very clear that this is EUR 1,500 net. So you yourself are creating the confusion that is actually not there at the moment. About 45 years and about equality between men and women. I think that's obvious, too. There is an investment of more than EUR 2 billion in pensions, and many people, hundreds of thousands of Belgians, are making progress, and that is also for women. But it is also, above all, a realistic plan. It is the first time that so much extra budget goes into these pensions. It's a realistic plan. It's a plan where a lot of people improve on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u100	Mr. President, I'm going to be very quick. But it has to be said that at some point I feel like I'm being taken for granted here in this Parliament. Because when we ask the question – and that's why we rest it several times – the left parties tell us that it's the net, and the liberals tell us that it's the crude. At some point, you have to agree. Is it the net or is it the crude? And stop playing with the future of people!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u101	Mr President, I will try again to respond very briefly. Mr Depraetere, I understand what my fellow Members of the PVDA apparently did not understand, that this figure of EUR 1,500 is a net figure. The only thing I would like to know from you: is that an idée fix, which is 1,500 euros, evolves in time with inflation, is that inflation steady or not? Or is that another EUR 1 500 within 30 years, so to speak? I'm assuming it's inflation-proof, to be a little ahead of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u102	Mr President, I think the text on this is clear. It is, of course, a figure from which the ambition is very clear. It's about 1,500 euros net. That is the ambition of this government. I do not understand the confusion about that either. You said that it was about a different amount, that it was about the gross amount. But the same discussion has been going on all day and the same answer has been followed by us all day. We are talking about a net amount of EUR 1,500 and, yes, we are fixating on that. Yeah, that's the ambition. Yes, that is what we are absolutely striving for, and that is also very clearly enshrined in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u103	We didn't want to make it a symbol file in the government's communications. That's kind of the problem. It does not say that it will be EUR 1,500 net. You must read your own text. We're heading in the direction of Mr. Vandenbroucke. It doesn't say 1,500 euros net. I find it very interesting intellectually. A lot of thought has been given to those words heading towards the end of the road. That's minutes, hours of discussions. You are playing with the fact that people who are just going to read that quickly are going to say 'in the direction of 'I get 1,500 euro net'. That's where they're lying. That's the problem. I put the figure forward: at EUR 1,580 gross, the agreement was knocked off. I've asked all parties. That's the right information. Is 1,580 euro gross 1,500 euro net? This is a tax error. I told you, it's 1,450 euros. You're telling me that it's going in that direction, that you have the will... that I can live with. I don't agree with it, but I can live with it. But repeating here all day that it is 1,500 euros net, that is just not fair. Come on. We're going through the questions because they're actually being lied to, and you know that those words... We're going 'to' the 1,500 euros, that doesn't mean we're going to get 1,500 euros. You know that word is important to you. In fact, for this very little word, 'to', just read the budget, which is not 2.8 to 3.2 billion. So, frankly, I can live with the fact that you tell us that it won't be 1,500 euros net and that we want to go 'to' and that we will make efforts, it won't be easy, etc. I can, but please... Please don't lie to that symbol file, because people really ask the question: will it be 1,500 euros net? There are newspaper titles that say: it will be 1,500 euro net. That is not the case and it has been shown. So stop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u104	The text of the coalition agreement is clear: we are moving towards EUR 1,500 net. That budget table is right, we are not going to lie about it. For our group, however, it is clear that EUR 1,500 net remains the objective. That is why we also have a number of other proposals, because we are working towards EUR 1,500 net on the revenue side. In this way, Mrs Depraetere, we want to work towards a net pension of EUR 1,500 and achieve that goal at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u105	Sorry, ma'am, it's not the rules of the game. The person who intervenes and responds is the group leader. Moreover, it is quite surprising in the debate that all the questions today are exchanges between the various speakers and the group leaders who present the note, whereas, finally, a whole series of questions will be asked to the members of the government in the very near future, either in committee, as Mr Bertels said, or in a forthcoming budget discussion. I think we are moving the debate here. I call on Mrs Depraetere to continue her speech, otherwise we will find ourselves in a stalemate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u106	Mr Hedebouw, you pretend not to know what the word 'direction' means, but of course you know very well what we are talking about. Of course, you know very well that there will be no minimum pension of EUR 1,500 tomorrow and that it will therefore be towards EUR 1,500 net, but it will be in this legislative period. That is quite clear. You can keep questioning that. Your colleague from your group just said that it is an important signal to be clear about this. I don't really agree with that. It is not an important signal to be clear about that. It's much more important to just do it, and that's what we'll do. That is what will happen in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u107	I'd like to sum it up, just to be clear. So we're evolving to 1,500 euros net, but it's not certain. The fact that the career condition of 45 years has to be met will mean that most people will not be able to claim it. That gives the benefit of clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u108	I can't believe that when the government makes such an incredible investment in pensions, you don't turn out to be a partner for that. Apparently, that's really hard. Then I wonder: are you for or against? It is not really clear what your position is on increasing the pensions of hundreds of thousands of Belgians. Apparently, that's not what you guys are for. That's also noted. Good. Colleagues, the respect that people deserve at the end of their careers, they deserve it during their careers. All those who run things in our country deserve a strong government, a government that is on their side for once. That is why this government will invest in those people, in training and training, to strengthen everyone's talents and to increase their chances in the labour market. That is why this government will invest in providing real guidance to long-term sick people. No accompaniment to dismissal, but an accompaniment to a suitable job at the time they are really ready for that. That is why this government will finally invest in a real fight against discrimination. Your name, color or age shouldn't play a role if you're looking for a job. That is why this government will really put an end to the abuse of day contracts. A job must provide security. This government will really invest in better working conditions and better social protection for bike couriers and freelancers, which we all like to call on, because a job must provide security and not uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u109	Mr President, I don't need two minutes. I ask very specific questions. Mrs Depraetere, you say that gender, colour and background should not play a role in, for example, getting a job. Can you promise this hemisphere that no quotas will be introduced anywhere on land in the next legislature by the federal government, because they do take into account the colour, background or sexual orientation of those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u110	I think our text is very clear. I don't know if you've read it. It is not clear to me whether you have read it effectively. It is quite clear that we will fight against discrimination. It will soon become clear what will have to be done. You can make a lot of insinuations about that or you can make a lot of proposals, but you will hear it soon. The government's gonna make a big deal out of it. One thing is clear: discrimination will be tackled. That was the point we were making here. Ladies and gentlemen, those who do their best every day must be rewarded for this, and that is why we will invest in a good wage and a good pension. We will invest in everyone and give them every opportunity on the labour market. That's where we make the difference. Prime Minister, today's harsh reality is unfortunately that not everyone in our country can fall back on a good job, on a good pension, on a good income. A lot of people live in poverty and especially now, in times of corona, they are having an extra hard time and many more people are having a hard time. We have seen the poverty figures this week and they were not good. We must also dare to face this harsh reality. With this coalition agreement, we are trying to meet this, by increasing the lowest benefits, by addressing rising billing costs and by tackling energy poverty. In my first year as a Member of Parliament, I have heard incredibly many stories, seen incredibly many people, received emails and read about poignant situations of people who have fallen victim to the debt industry, an industry of lawyers, of bailiffs and debt collection agencies who make huge profits on the hood of people who are financially struggling. These are poignant stories, for example about invoices of around EUR 50, which are suddenly multiplied tenfold. It goes very fast and the impact on the family or on the life of a person is enormous. Yes, we have taken a lot of steps in Parliament in the fight against the debt industry, but they always come a day late and are always too small. Those people are too often sent from the locker to the wall and too often they have to find their own way in the paper mill today. This government will finally do something about it and curb the debt industry. This is a radical change in our poverty policy and we are going to take care of it. That's where we make the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u111	Mrs Depraetere, you mentioned the lowest benefits earlier, and that was what we were discussing more often today. It was also about the additional efforts that would be made for the lowest benefits. I have already asked several questions about this, but I also read in the government agreement that you want to do something about benefits for people with higher incomes. Of course, I would like to know what you want to do for that. I see a number of people looking surprised here in the hemisphere, but the government agreement states that social security will be modernised and that the basis to be used for modernisation is the declaration of the social partners, following 75 years of social security. It states that, among other things, the insurance aspect of our benefits is today affected by low replacement rates which are particularly disproportionate to the contributions paid by the higher income groups. Here too, we must maintain the necessary balance if we are to ensure that social security is accepted in the future. That support is, of course, extremely important. I understand that this is the basis for the modernisation of social security for this government. I am therefore interested in what will happen next to lower incomes and lower benefits with higher income benefits. It is a promise that is in the coalition agreement in so many words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u112	(...) support, but in recent years it has been clear that more than half of the budget of these living wages goes to people who do not have Belgian nationality. The budget allocated to non-Europeans' living wages has doubled under the Michael administration. Is limiting mass migration to Belgium part of your anti-poverty policy? If you want to fight poverty in this country, but do nothing about mass migration, you mop up with the tap open. Is the key to migration policy part of your anti-poverty policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u113	Mr President, I will answer the second question first. You haven't heard me talk about living wage anywhere. Anyway, that's your interpretation. A very important part of the chapter on poverty, I hope you have read it, is about a new way of working. We will look not only at revenue, but also at spending and roll-out of the REMI system across the country. I don't know if you're familiar with that. I assume so, but I'll explain in case you don't know. Not only is a benefit granted, it also looks at the individual circumstances of a person or of a family. How are they supposed to make ends meet? How can the balance be drawn up for them? What are their fixed costs? What are their revenues and expenses? In this way, we will tackle poverty in our country. I think that is a very important turnaround or a turnaround, but it must be well prepared. Colleagues, good health is important. A good job and a good income are important. But safety is also important. Too many people don't feel safe anymore. Too many cops feel abandoned, too. However, they give the best of themselves, often in difficult and dangerous circumstances. Meanwhile, they don't get the support they deserve, but this government is going to. This government will also invest in them, they will invest in more agents, 1,600 extra agents a year. She will invest in zero tolerance for violence against the police. It will invest in quick law and the execution of all penalties. Too often rioters and criminals go unpunished today. Too often police officers pick up criminals today to see them walk free the day after or the day after. Too often our security people are the target of violence. Too often heavy road offenders can continue to repeat the same mistake without penalty. We can no longer accept that, colleagues. We are no longer going to accept impunity. People must be able to return to the streets with peace of mind and policemen must finally be able to do their job again, with the respect they deserve. Colleagues, if you have enough money, you can buy your own security. He buys a chic villa in a rich neighborhood, with a driveway of 20 meters long, with a gate of 3 meters high and a camera system: it is safe. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u114	Mr. Anseew, I saw you. But maybe you'll ask a question before she gives you the answer to the question you were going to ask. I propose to let her finish her speech, as for Mr. Van Langenhove, and then you'll ask your question. It's not polite to interrupt the talking person all the time. So, Mrs Depraetere, you continue, and I will then give the floor to Mr. [[Van Langenhove and then Mr Anseeuw.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u115	All other people who can't buy their own security depend on a strong government, on a government that tackles crime harder and strengthens the police. That's where we make the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u116	What you said was absolutely, in no way, an answer to my very clear question. Your party claims that it considers social security and its affordability to be important. You're standing here in front of the people in trouble. Do you recognise that mass migration, which has been going on for decades, is putting enormous pressure on social security? Do you recognise that mass migration will eventually ensure that its mathematical models, very simple to calculate, will become priceless and that the pressure on our OCMWs and on our social security is becoming incredibly large? Do you recognize that problem? You can answer that question in a very specific way, and that tone does not really need to be answered by someone who has already had the help of her group up to three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u117	Mrs. Depraetere, I will paraphrase you. Your answer surprises me, but that's not true, of course. You did not even bother to waste one word on an attempt to answer my very specific question. However, I will paraphrase again, the text is clear. However, the text is not so concrete and that is why I would like to have some clarification. What will you do for the benefits of people with a higher income? In other words, it is in the statement you use as a basis, namely the coalition agreement and, in particular, the section on the modernisation of social security. If you have misunderstood my question, I would like to make the effort to repeat it. The text reads: 'On the one hand, the insurance aspect of our benefits is today affected by low replacement rates which, especially for the higher income groups, are disproportionate to their contributions. Here too, we must maintain the necessary balance if we are to guarantee the support for social security in the future." I come again to my very simple question, which I will now have asked three times. Three times is a charm, maybe there'll be an answer now. What will you do for the higher income groups when they need a benefit? What will you do with these benefits? I'm very excited about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u118	Mrs. Depraetere, congratulations on your new role. It's brave to enter the stage like this, especially at this hour. I want to thank you, too. You are the second speaker of the majority parties to speak in favour of safety. The first was Mr Lachaert, the second is you. I hope that our Minister for the Interior and Security will hear from my fellow Members later that this issue has been raised here during or before the thematic debates. Never before has the federal government had so many vice prime ministers. There's seven of them. It's never happened before. However, our Minister for Security and the Interior is not part of this. Professor Bouteca recently said: "It is at the heart that all the buttons are cut." I sincerely hope that, if we are to be able to see you again here among us, or tomorrow during the debate, if it continues, you will also appreciate her in that role. As far as the content is concerned, it was about net 1,600 extra agents a year, if I'm right. Is that an annual net increase or is that also the replacement ratio? That is my first specific question to you. I come to my second question. Your party colleague and our esteemed colleague Hans Bonte made a huge plea here for the unification of these Brussels police zones. Will it have an impact on that, too? I didn't read anything about that. Perhaps that is because a bill is now pending in that direction, and I could use that as an argument, but I am very curious about sp.a's vision in that regard. Is there going to be one Brussels police zone, a single Brussels police zone? Is the net 1,600 extra agents or do you take the replacement coefficient into account? Of course, that's a manifest difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u119	Mrs Depraetere, I'd like to hear you say it all. The violence against the police must be stopped. The criminals need to be dealt with harder. It's a lot of words, but I just don't see any action. I don't see any action. I've been in this Parliament for a year. There is a lot of talk, but I see very few legislative initiatives. Mr Metsu wonders why there is no single police zone. The bill was tabled by us and voted out by the majority parties. So please don't get too comfortable. It's not gonna happen. There is a problem with the police, both in recruitment and in the motivation of police officers. That's not surprising either. Policemen see, day after day, through a lax justice policy, the criminals they're picking up today are gonna be out in the streets again tomorrow. In this way, no decent security policy can arise. You have to admit that the final piece of a security policy must also be a strict and fair justice policy, a lick-on-piece policy with which the police people are once again appreciated, which changes the fear again. The fear must be in the camp of the criminals, not among their own people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u120	Mr President, one of the previous questions was actually put in such a way that it cannot be answered in this Chamber. We are also going to the heart of the matter. The question was about a principle that is contained in the government agreement, namely that we are not just fighting poverty in the area of social benefits. Social benefits are also used for middle-class people who are not poor but who are affected by risks. You have to protect them enough. People who have made a good living should also see something of that in their pension. We're not just working on minimum pensions. We're not just fighting poverty. We are making social policy for the whole population, and I personally think you will not believe me when I say this, but you will think that I am biased and that, as Mrs Depraetere has said, the chapter on combating poverty is indeed innovative, because it is not only strong, but also dedicated to tailor-made work. It's the very first time I've read that in a coalition agreement. We say very clearly: we will bet on customization. The reference was made to the REMI system. It's absolutely innovative. I think that my neighbour, Minister Van Quickenborne, could tell us a lot about this, about how his city is experimenting and working with it. Others, too, could tell from some local authorities. This is now being lifted into a principle of national politics. In addition, there is a principle that social security also takes into account what social security gives back to people who are not really in poverty, but who are at risk. That principle means, among other things, that you have an eye for the extent to which social benefits protect the purchasing power that people had. One then speaks of replacement ratios. You should say whether you think that is a good balance. This is the subject of the debate of principle: a major effort to combat poverty, but also a social security, in fact for everyone, also for a broad middle group. That is the principle contained in the coalition agreement. We cannot, of course, say, Mrs Depraetere, I do not, my fellow Members, how we will put that into points and commas. It is a guideline for our approach. The same applies to the whole debate on pensions. Excuse me for coming back to that. I've heard here say there's been a lie. I think that's a pretty tough word. I don't like using that. Let us say that the truth would be violated, because one would talk about net pensions and the other about gross pensions and we would lie to people. I will speak for myself and for my neighbor. We were on TV yesterday. A little more people are looking at that, not even the masses, but a little more people than they are looking at right now. We've repeated about ten times the direction of the cube. We have said that the direction is 1,500 euros net debt. We did not say that in 2024 there will be EUR 1,500 gross for everyone who retires. Nor have we said that EUR 1,500 net will be available for everyone. It is much more complicated than that, but the direction is very clear and that is what can be written in a coalition agreement. The truth is therefore being used as a force for violence. I use a cautious expression when it is said that we have said something else and when it is said that we do not explain it clearly to the people. We do, every day we've done that, including in the media. It's a direction, it's an effort we'll make. We're gonna hit as much as we can. The reality of that policy is quite complex. I would like to refer to a number of things that have already been mentioned, but you should not now ask what the ministerial decision of 13 December 2023 on this or that will look like. It is a question of principles and principles, and one has to confess to colour. We support these principles and principles and I hear, for my experience, a rare unisono argument on all the banks of the majority, rare unisono on these points.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u121	My colleague's been replacing me since yesterday. I am the one who succeeded the Committee on the Interior and I am also the one who negotiated the safety section. It would therefore be unfair to put before her now all the hearings that we have had in the Committee on the Interior. You can understand that people also need time to work in a file. The questions that have been asked here are not insignificant questions. I think it's a little too easy to throw slogans. I have followed all these hearings along with me, and we have also remembered what has emerged. That is why what is now in the coalition agreement is the result of the concerns we have heard in that committee. Because what did the policemen come to the committee to tell you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u122	Mr Vandenbroucke, I am glad that you got into the helicopter, because you are right to note that detailing is not, of course, on the agenda today, which makes the debate much more interesting. I admit that. You've been demoted recently, by the way. You were an expert and now you're a politician. Your career has taken a turn down. But for example, you were an expert at the beginning of January 2nd...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u123	You say a politician is less than an expert. You must look in the mirror urgently, look in the mirror urgently. I personally believe that what you do, being a politician, is a very noble metier. Let's try to do it noblely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u124	Minister, I will take into account your lack of sense of irony in the future. So you were still an expert on January 2nd of this year. Then you quite rightly said in the newspaper that you wanted a government that would bring pensions to EUR 1,500 to be successful in communicating. And indeed, it is in that area of communication over the past few days, and you have predicted it, you have been an expert very wrong. Because actually, you just said it, it goes towards EUR 1,500. It's not right away, et cetera and so on. Of course, that would have earned the right communication, that that number 1,500 would not be mentioned. You should have just said that the lower pensions increase. 'Cause I'm assuming that that 1,500 euros isn't an upper limit? So I can assume that, then we would not have had all these discussions here. Your second comment was about the principle of insurance in social security for those who have a higher income, on the one hand, and about the support nature for those who receive assistance or lower income benefits, on the other. You have said that everyone in the majority supports that principle. That also makes sense, of course, because the problem is 'too' and that is what is said about the purple approach 'too' that you agree with everyone. Of course, everyone is in favour of this, because of course one is talking about the more earning citizen who, thanks to the insurance principle, will receive a higher benefit in the future. Higher income will also lead to higher unemployment benefits, higher pensions and so on, even in bad luck, and the liberals will be delighted to hear that. On the other hand, there are the socialists, who are very keen to hear that the lower benefits increase. The mistake of this government is that you will have to make choices, because of course you cannot bring good news to everyone. Otherwise, you're facing a huge budgetary operation. That's why you're unisono and that's why you didn't go into the details today, because then you'll find out what choices you're making and what the invoice on the other side is. That will tell the future, but I note that this government does not really make any choices on what problem in social security it will concentrate on. That's why you're unisono. You don't make choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u125	The fact that there is indeed no one-sided choice is the essence. That's just the essence. But if one does not make one-sided choices and one wants to help people in poverty as well as protect a broad middle group from risk derivatives, then one must invest enough in them. If one does not invest enough in it, one is forced to make one-sided choices. Then we must really want to cough up the money for that. That is the starting point. We do have to agree on that. That debate will have to take place. By the way, that piece in The Time of January 2, I could write it again today. Very interesting, in that piece I was completely independent. I do not think that EUR 1 500 is a bad objective at all. I was completely independent, I didn't owe anyone anything, and I wrote it a long time ago. I could write it again today. I said it's complex to get there. It's complex to get there and that's why we're gonna need time to do it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u126	I'm really gonna close up here. I did not say that you no longer support that article for the sake of clarity, but I honestly think that you might as well have said: we are moving towards EUR 1,600. That would have been the same story as the story you're telling today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u127	Mr President, for the sake of understanding, we fully support the principle of social security, the importance of broad support for it, and therefore the need for sufficient action on the part of the middle groups. I should also like to point out, moreover, that most of my fellow Members here remember that in the last few months, with the purple-green parties in the lead, the principle of social security has been trampled upon several times by a number of legislative proposals that have been adopted. We were alone at a certain point in time to uphold that principle of insurance. Anyway, let's get that straight. There is no problem with that principle, Minister. Mrs. Depraetere, I want to apologize to you. I misworded my question. I will no doubt have given the impression that I wanted an answer on points and commas. That's not true. I have only noted that the direction is clear with regard to those lower benefits, for example pensions. I understand from the Minister that this should be about the direction and not about the points and commas. I'll rephrase my question. As far as those higher income groups are concerned, what direction will the reform of these benefits actually take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u128	Mr President, I do not think I have yet answered Mr Depoostere's question. Mr Depoostere, you raised two points in your question. First of all, you said that there is often talk of zero tolerance against police officers, but you never see actions. We are standing here on days 1 or 2 of a fresh government agreement, which literally states that there will be zero tolerance against police violence. I don't know what you're looking for, but that's a very clear act in this coalition agreement, isn't it? I suggest you come back to that in the near future. If I may, Mr President, I shall return to the second part of the question. That might make it a little easier for the debate to continue. You also said that there is too much impunity in our country. That we urgently need to do something about this. That is also very clear in this coalition agreement. I just said it myself. So, yeah, we have to do something about that. You're right about 100 %. It's in the coalition agreement. We're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u129	Mrs. Depraetere, that's what I'm talking about. They're words, but I don't see the action. During the past year, Minister De Crem was interviewed almost weekly in the plenary session about violence against the police. We held hearings in the Home Affairs Committee on violence against the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u130	This is the discussion of a coalition agreement. The coalition agreement was concluded on Wednesday morning. The oath was taken on Thursday. We're a day later, the second day after the oath is taken to discuss this. Half of the discussion is actually about general political statements which either have nothing to do with the coalition agreement or are in the coalition agreement and where one asks: why is it not in the coalition agreement? What exactly are we doing? We still have three hours to have the real discussion. Can we focus on using those three hours usefully? I must say that I greatly admire the coolness of the leader of the group, who has to deal with this at her first intervention as leader of the group. I must say that I have an incredibly great admiration for the way you deal with it. I don't know if I could stay so calm. But maybe that's the problem that we've all stayed too calm. Mr President, perhaps we should make agreements on how to use the next three hours and how to use them in the most useful way. I would like to have a real discussion about what is in that agreement and about the choices we are making. What is the criticism of this? Then we'll lock up tomorrow. But if we go on like this, we're not actually going to have half the discussion and then the opposition will say afterwards that it's a pity that we can't have that discussion. So maybe we should reserve five minutes to plan how we're going to use the next three hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u131	It may also be recalled that, in principle, when a government is formed and has gained confidence, each and every minister submits a policy note to the relevant committees. Here we are anticipating the discussion in these various committees. From the beginning, and I've been here from the beginning, I've felt that it's absolutely important to have accurate and encrypted answers to all the questions and topics that are decided. We're not gonna make it! There are still some 30 people on the thematic debates, and we have to finish at 3.00 a.m., when this Parliament is closing. Tomorrow morning, we will not be able to resume our work here, we will have to find a solution to do so elsewhere. I do not know if it will be in Parliament or elsewhere, but in any case it will have to be decided. And I'm waiting for the president to come back so we can talk and see what we're going to do, but please try to limit your interventions and avoid repeating the same thing and always asking the same questions. I'm trying to enforce time: it's a maximum of two minutes for each intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u132	Mr President, I will be very brief. I have two specific questions. One, to Mr Depraetere, in connection with zero tolerance for violence against police and aid workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u133	She has already answered that question, ma'am!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u134	But are you also prepared, because that is essential, to increase the penalties and to move away from community service? I have a very specific question for the Prime Minister. I heard you speak yesterday, and I fully support you in it, for the execution of all the punishments. You're right. But how are you going to do that? Prisons are already overcrowded. I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u135	You're not gonna see me take up the defense of every specific question that's been asked here. I am sure there are some who may be asked whether they were appropriate here, but the applause that the Prime Minister has received from the majority in saying that the debate is taking too long, which bothers me. I just read a tweet from someone who says that there is a debate in the European Parliament for the first time. I think that we have had a thorough debate this evening on all kinds of issues and that the government is feeling a little uncomfortable because it is indeed unable to answer many questions. Underneath that layer of varnish are still a lot of answers that haven't been given internally. That should not prevent all Members of Parliament from asking questions which they consider to be the right ones. It is not up to the government to decide which questions of MPs are justified and which questions of MPs are not justified. I must therefore tell you that I demand respect from the Prime Minister for the prerogatives of each Member of Parliament. If the debate lasts until 3 p.m. and we have to continue tomorrow morning, it will take until 3 p.m. and we will continue tomorrow morning. Public opinion is the only one who can judge the appropriateness of the questions that are being asked here, and that opinion of the public is worth more to me than governments in this matter. I am excited about this, because this is about Parliament's freedom to engage in a free debate, without prejudice to the respect I would also like to show for the fact that Mrs Depraetere is indeed doing her maiden performance here, a few hours after she became chairman of the political group. That is a very special circumstance. But that should not be an argument for avoiding the debate either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u136	The questions that have been asked are not even answered. Then I get the impression that they just want to create a picture opportunity here to put videos on Facebook. Perhaps those who have not done so have the opportunity tomorrow to record editing films in empty rooms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u137	I have no question, Mr President. I have prepared an intervention and I have already been with you in connection with the course of the debate. For the sake of fairness, I have to agree with the government here. Why do I agree with the government on this? A deal was made. I've been following government debates for 20 years and an appointment has been made. Firstly, there is always a general debate involving the chairmen of the political groups, and afterwards there will be a debate on the subject. The subject debate has been going through the general debate all day. It was a debate between group chairmen rather than with ministers. There are new ministers here and these ministers need to be questioned. This is done in thematic debates and the like afterwards. Now that was a whole, chaotic day here, which may last until 3:00 a.m. tomorrow or tonight. Tomorrow we might have to start over, just because you're here to play jammer. I am not the softest man in terms of the government or the opposition, but I find it a shame to see someone here who is here for the first time as chairman of the political group shine fire. After all, we are well aware that this is not about such matters. After the general debate, we have another thematic debate, which you should lead as President. Then we can have a proper debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u138	There was a question to me. This is the idea, I think. I will briefly comment on that. There's a lot of extra prison capacity coming up in Haren's prison: 1,150 places. We also have an inflation of punishments at the moment. Punishment is always going to be higher because it is assumed that short sentences are not being carried out. That's the real problem we have. We should probably turn the circle. We must go to short sentences and apply them effectively. The reference was also made to violence against the police. It is quite clear in this coalition agreement that, in cases of severe violence against the police and health care workers, it is no longer possible to dismiss them on the basis of opportunity. That's what it says, and it's perfectly justified. People who have to guarantee our safety or who are responsible for our health cannot tolerate violence against them. Today, one in three P.V.s is being dismissed, and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u139	I simply propose that when members want to ask questions about the content of the government statement, it is the ministers who respond, or the Prime Minister. And we will return to the logic defended by Mr. Dedecker. Mrs Dillen, what is your short question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u140	A very brief question to the Prime Minister again in response to his reply. In the coalition agreement, zero tolerance stands against all forms of violence. Now it's already heavy force. How do you rhyme with that? Two, you say: cases must no longer be dismissed, cases of violence against the police and aid workers. I agree with you 100%, but in this country the principle of the separation of powers still prevails. I don't think it's up to the prime minister to give executives to the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u141	Mr President, very briefly, because I agree with the speaker. My colleague Dillen is right. I was just about to make the same comment. I think it is very good that zero tolerance is written in a coalition agreement. But literally write in a coalition agreement that there can be no more expulsion? We do live in a rule of law. That is the separation of powers. It is not up to the government to do so, even if I understand the reasoning. But I would like to know how the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice with all the rock and roll that has been announced is going to exceed the separation of powers to get that done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u142	Mr President, it is perfectly clear that dismissal is not allowed for the sake of opportunity, in the event of severe physical violence against police officers and aid workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that there are still a lot of questions that will undoubtedly be addressed in the thematic debates. But I think there should also be an opportunity to conclude my intervention. You can all ask the Prime Minister and the government these questions later. That is what these thematic debates are for. But I'd like to finish my speech, if you'll allow me. Colleagues, I would like to conclude my speech with an understatement, because it has taken a long time to stand here, not only today but also in recent months since the elections. It's been a long time waiting for a government, too long. But after months of standstill, there is an agreement. After months of standstill, we can finally get back on track with our country. Now the work really starts, because the challenges are great. We'll see. The health crisis is still raging and the economic crisis is just beginning. The crisis of confidence in politics is not just over, so there is still a lot of work to be done there. The coalition agreement that is now before us will not solve it in one-two-three. It's gonna be a long-term job. It is said here today that this is in the coalition agreement, but that it is not noticed very much. It will be up to us, this government, this majority, to win citizens' confidence every day and to do every day what they want us to do: to find solutions and provide solutions. And we're not under any illusions. Ladies and gentlemen, that confidence has already been said here today, but it is going on horseback. And that confidence can only be restored with concrete proposals, with solutions to people's daily concerns, and that can only be done by stopping political games. It can only be done by seeking solutions, and that is what we are going to do. That is what this coalition agreement will do, and that will make our country move forward again. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, my group will trust this government with a great deal of confidence and conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u144	Mr President, I should like to return to my question to the Prime Minister, which I have not received an answer to. Mr Depraetere, I am therefore a little disappointed that you, as group leader of the custody minister for development cooperation, are not raising the issue. When we voted on the law against sexual abuse in development cooperation, your group abstained. So that's a bit of a special statement you made there. Will you ensure that women's rights receive specific attention in development cooperation? I don't see that in the coalition agreement. Will you also continue to digitize? How will you deal with Enabel? I can repeat my intervention just now. I did not receive any answers to my questions, and I think it is important, because there will be no speakers on the subject of development cooperation tomorrow. That is why I fear that it will not be discussed. You have a Minister for Development Cooperation, so it is important that this issue should also be addressed, that we should see what the priorities are, who the partner countries will be, and how we can continue working with private actors. They are very important in development cooperation. We can invest public money, but also and equally important is the sensitisation of the population. We must ensure that we all work together on this solidarity. Because you approved the growth path, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u145	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, you have just said that this Vivaldi coalition sets out a number of priority axes. And one of them is safety. As far as we are concerned, that is absolutely right. When we talk about collective security, however, it is also about defence. That's a very important department. I also know that you have a personal heart for that department, but I have missed that in your speech. Defence is also a department which is currently in a deep crisis and which faces a huge number of challenges and opportunities, including the purchase files, the often abominable infrastructure, the purchase of sound equipment, the needs linked to the operational deployment in foreign theatres. I would just like to mention a few. A lot of ambitions and objectives, but also a lot of questions. The first question I have for you concerns our international commitment, and in particular that of NATO. It can be read in the coalition agreement that this government sees this as the cornerstone of collective defence in Europe. I would say applause for yourself, because apparently sp.a and Ecolo-Green have converted to NATO adepts. I would therefore also like to ask you the following questions. What is your position on budgetary contributions to NATO, because we do not actually read about this in the agreement? What happens to the current purchase files? Are you going to continue with the previous policy? I am thinking of the F-35, on which you have been quite critical, and in particular of the possibility of carrying nuclear weapons. Can you at least clarify that? The coalition agreement generally states that the military profession and the status should be made more attractive, that more should be recruited, that more attention should be paid to the well-being of military personnel. A better remuneration seemed to me to be one of the most important priorities in this respect. However, in the budgetary translation, we do not actually read any concrete words about an adequate defence personnel policy. We have received an A4 with a number of figures, but there is no immediate record of this issue. I would like to know, Mr President, how Mrs Depraetere intends to guarantee this. That is why I am thinking of infrastructure and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u146	Mr President, I know that you are strict but just. I would also like to join the many words of thanks. In any case, congratulations to Mrs Depraetere in her new position. I would like to congratulate her warmly and the warm applause shows that it is carried by the plenary. I'd also like to ask a similar question about Defense. You might have expected it. I know you're playing a home game in that respect too. You have followed this very closely in your previous life, in one of your previous functions. There was a Member of Parliament at the time, Mr Van der Maelen, whom you happen to know very well, who then, with body and Members, opposed the F-35 dossier, the replacement programme of the F-16. I know he was supported by a very good employee at the time. I read in this coalition agreement that the Defence Investment Programme will continue in full. This is an important commitment that this government is making to continue the plans of Minister Vandeput, who was fighting the sp.a. group at the time. I can conclude from this, if that is not the case, that the F-35 dossier will not be delayed and will continue. That gives me a bit of peace of mind. I also have a question about nuclear non-proliferation, as stated in the coalition agreement. Nice principles are being put in place to work actively on a global level, but at the same time it is being said: without prejudice to this, and that is an important passus, it is always yin and yang that is in keeping with our commitments and commitments within NATO. That's what it says. I think there's something we can derive from that. For example, Mr Verduyckt has pending a bill prohibiting nuclear weapons from being placed under the F-35s, which is not explicitly included in the government's programme. But that bill doesn't have any ground anymore, does it? This would be contrary to the commitments that have been made. I think it is important that you shed some light on this matter. We are also all talking about staff costs and operating costs. What is being registered with regard to human resources and staff is very ambitious. However, Mr Lachaert has just said that no additional funds are being entered in the register. How are we going to realize that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u147	In the middle, I will say whether Mrs Depraetere wants to go into that. These are all questions that are actually addressed to the government. It is the first inquisition debate I have experienced in my thirty-five-year career in which group leaders are constantly questioned about the coalition agreement. That is possible, but the ministers are having a rather quiet day today. That is a very improper application of the Rules of Procedure. I haven't heard many questions from the members of the government. Normally, the prime minister will have to replicate later. But he doesn't need much reply, because I think all the group leaders of the majority who have been questioned have already spoken about this. I give the Prime Minister the floor because he asks, and then I would really like to continue, as agreed, also at the Conference. There may still be some agreements that can be observed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u148	Mr President, when I hear questions that I think are for the government, I will answer them. You had a question about development cooperation, Mrs Depoorter. You say that the focus on women's rights has disappeared. I don't see that. It says that cross-cutting issues such as gender and equal opportunities are addressed. It's said that digitization would have disappeared. Quod nun. Digitisation is a lever here, according to the text. Enabel and BIO are gone? No, it says that Enabel and BIO are cornerstones of policy. You ask what the regional approach is: Central Africa, West Africa, North Africa and the Middle East. Is the private sector gone? No, it's in the text. At some point this just becomes a reading exercise. I can do that, too. Between now and 3:00 a.m., I can also read out passages from the coalition agreement, if I have to. I would like to make it clear that I started with the previous coalition agreement as Minister for Development Cooperation, and there was one paragraph in it. Here's a page and a half. To say that there is nothing about development cooperation is not correct. Then I come to the question of non-proliferation. There too, I think the text is actually clear. What's a first element? We do not want to undermine the commitments we have within NATO. It is also very clearly stated that NATO is a cornerstone of the security policy that applies in our country and in Europe. In addition, our country will make every effort to ensure that non-proliferation efforts lead to something. And if it turns out that certain approaches, such as a review conference, have little effect, we say that we are prepared to look together with European partners and NATO partners at what additional steps can be taken to ensure that these non-proliferation efforts do not end up on a dead end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u149	Can we now perhaps continue the list of speakers in the context of the general discussion? Mrs Depoorter, what you are doing is really not correct. That really is an improper use of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Ponthier, the same applies to you. I have been seeing all day that your groups are simply conducting interventions that may have been prepared in advance, and which are addressed to group leaders, while we are holding a general debate here on the government statement. I've never seen this before. I do not know whether Parliament is going to come out stronger, and that is what concerns me most of all. I am always open to a good debate, but I really cannot accept the way things are going. We have three more speakers in the context of the general discussion and it is now a quarter past twelve. You're just gonna sit there all day. I'm going to give you an award for that one day, but it will be at a much later date. You are not going to catch me not applying the Rules of Procedure. There is no regulatory provision not to give you the floor, but know that you are doing something that is not in accordance with the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u150	Mr President, if words are put in my mouth that I have not spoken, I am happy to reply effectively. The Prime Minister's answer is very clear. If I compare the present note with the policy paper he presented in the previous legislature, it is virtually nil. I did not say that there is no attention to women's rights, but too little. I did not say that there are no regions, there is simply no clarity. There is no prioritization of the SDGs, and as far as Enabel is concerned, you ask for synergy with the policies of the European authorities, of Flanders and of Belgium. So there you go again, just as you do for public health, on certain paths that are a bit dubious. That is the discussion before us. There is simply no ambitious project, and I would very much like to share it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, you did not answer my specific question. EUR 1 billion is foreseen for security and justice. I'm asking you how much of that $1 billion will be spent on the Defense Department. That's the third part of safety. I'm just asking how much of that 1 billion is planned for the Defense Department? What is given priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u152	I don't know if you know, but according to normal rules, the government's gonna answer later. After this educational debate, the Prime Minister is about to reply to the government. Then he answers a lot of questions. And I do not know if you know, but then Parliament will have the last word. That's another important rule. I don't know what time it will be, but do we want to respect that order?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u153	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know, Prime Minister, that the arrival of your government is welcomed with some kind of relief. The word "end" is probably the word that is most often repeated after two years of political crises, excessive clashes, not always very glorious shows. Congratulations on your position as Prime Minister, since you will have this high position as conductor of a Vivaldi. Congratulations to the various ministers appointed. Good luck! And I would also like, even if she is not here right now, to welcome the brave engagement of the outgoing Prime Minister in her role as captain of a ship in the midst of storm in recent months. Prime Minister, you are now facing a huge challenge: to be effective in the context of a major health crisis, an economic crisis, an extremely serious social crisis, a climate crisis whose effects are increasingly devastating, but also, I dare say, a crisis of democracy. Before I get to the bottom of your agreement, I would like to return to your speech yesterday, Prime Minister. You said yesterday "we will never forget 2020" and I associate myself with your words of support to families that have been particularly affected by the VOCID-19, to those who have died, to caregivers who have also been tirelessly mobilized, but also to all those who have been severely affected by the social and economic consequences. We will never forget 2020, but allow me to speak to you with an open heart, paying attention, Mr Prime Minister, and your ministers, but also Mr President and all of us as parliamentarians, to another year, in 2016, because that year we were affected by the attacks in Brussels. And if we will never forget 2020, I would also like it not to forget 2016 and, in particular, the victims, the relatives of the victims of the attacks, who, for a number of them, are still in a particularly difficult situation, whether medically or socially. If I allow myself to intervene at the beginning of my intervention on these victims, it is because, even if there is a part of the way that has been made, there is still a long way to go, whether it is for personalized support for victims who are still experiencing difficult times, for the recognition of victim status, where they still have access to too little, or for the substitution of insurance by the State. I would also like to return to the part of your speech yesterday that concerns trust. You said, rightly, "you have to restore trust." I welcome this, because the level of citizen ras-le-bol is to the maximum of what can be imagined, especially in the face of unfulfilled promises, double discourse, inefficiency. As an answer, it is first and foremost the honesty of the discourse that must prevail and, of course, the effectiveness of the action. To do this, they need a captain who holds the course, who mobilizes his crew and shows that he dominates the storm rather than suffers it. Again, honesty and efficiency are absolutely necessary. The delivery of the government has been laborious and your co-former, Mr Magnette, has recognized it since he said, I quote, that we have not always shown the right example in recent months, but over the last five days, that date from a few days ago, we have a little fixed the mistakes we have made. You yourself spoke, at the announcement of the establishment of the government, of sincerity. I was delighted with your various comments. It was an opportunity, it seemed to me, to start again on a good basis, but it is true that the joy has been short-lived, because over the last 48 hours I was disappointed to see a show, not about the agreements, but especially about the disagreements, about the pension, the crude, the net, I don't come back to it, but I agree with what Minister Vandenbroucke said a few minutes ago: in the background, all these figures that one looses correspond to situations that are sometimes terribly different, and often the interpretation that one does not actually is correct. At the same time, two party presidents and your Minister of Employment will explain on television sets that by 2024, pensioners who were about 1,290 euros, will have 1,500 euros net, which will make a very exact difference of 284 euros. We agree, Minister Vandenbroucke, that, in relation to your government agreement, this is not fair. Maybe you're going to "stretch towards", but when we have party presidents, ministers of this government who announce this to people, put yourself in their place for a second, pensioned citizens believe it; it's legitimate, it's in good faith. But the reality in the government agreement, in what may be done, is quite different. Some said: yes, there will be extra taxes; others said: no, there will be no extra taxes. Some have said: this government marks a complete break with the policy of the previous government; others say: ah no, that is the legacy of the government... Prime Minister, it's still a lot of cacophony! Is that sincerity? Is that clarity? Is that how you intend to rebuild the trust you call with all your wishes? You'd almost be in the middle of the election campaign with trophies, blue trophies, green trophies, red trophies and j-en pass. The parties, the ministers speak, but they did not wave trophies by announcing figures that are absolutely not the reflection of reality. And when you talk to your constituents in this way, by wrapping up reality, by doing pure and hard political marketing, I find it wrong, because it is not honest, but above all, Prime Minister, because you, but also each of your ministers, are there not only to work for your constituents, but also to work for all Belgian citizens. I wanted to say this because, personally, as a citizen, I received quite a lot of calls and messages to ask myself whether this extra amount of 284 euros for pensioners in 2024 corresponded to reality. Well, I wasn't able to answer them. I didn't tell them yes or no, I tried to be honest, and today's debates showed that it was indeed truncated. So, I hope your answers will be honest, because trust, it gets in drops, but it gets lost in liters... Just now, in response to a Member of Parliament, you insisted, pleaded to get out of the cartoons. I totally agree with you. Clearly, the government may not yet be fully aligned with that. Of these 284 euros, Prime Minister, do not come to me to explain that it is correct, the gross, the net, the taxes, not the taxes. I have a proposal to make to get you out of these cartoons. I propose that you submit your government agreement to the Office of the Plan, in the sense that we had all decided on the evaluation of the political parties' programmes, precisely to prevent everyone from interpreting it in all senses, that they present it in such or such a way according to what everyone wants to pass. We have tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect, but I think that the government could do so on its own initiative, and you would get out of it. It is a duty of both transparency and truth. I now come to the content of your majority agreement. Here we find the four seasons of Vivaldi: a little spring, a little summer (in any case, we wish), but also the shadows of autumn and, perhaps, the cold of winter. Let's start with a little spring and, I hope, a little summer. It's the season of hopes, promises. Your agreement contains many good intentions, some of which we can share, which we hope will be realized, because the citizens are waiting for action. But your agreement also contains a lot of blur. I have hundreds of questions about this text, but, I assure you, I'm not going to ask them tonight. We'll have the opportunity to talk to them in detail - and I'll put my finger where it hurts - at the time of the auditions. I'm still going to raise a few issues. Some measures have been announced and repeated for decades sometimes. I would like to mention a few of them. Positive measure, most certainly: set the target of an employment rate of 80%. It remains to be seen how we are going to achieve this, but it is a positive and indispensable course, with a recovery plan, which is not, at this stage, 'priorised' or budgeted, the importance of encouraging entrepreneurship, with SMEs, with the self-employed, and with the national investment plan. Let us hope for consistency with the European Investment Plan and the European Green Pact. I quickly review several other issues: the refinancing of justice and the police (we will pay attention to the acts), the arrest of foreign minors, the advances for the most fragile people (there too, we will see if the acts will follow, since there are no figures for the lowest allowances), the removal of injustices for the disabled (I hope we can go so far as to abolish disability, the price of love and the price of work - yes, Prime Minister, I know that it is in the agreement and I stress that this is a positive point, but it has been at least ten years since we talked about it and I expect it to happen). Again among the positive points: the convergences between the professional status of employee, self-employed and civil servant (I have not seen anything on the day of failure, but I hope that we can achieve this at the level of Parliament), the new forms of citizen participation, the pro-European commitment, which has perhaps missed too much in recent years, and the defence of multilateral cooperation. Among the positive points I would like to explore a little more is health. First of all, it is the news that has to challenge us, namely the management of the epidemic. We need what has never been done, namely a pandemic plan worthy of that name. Today we have VOCID-19, but tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we may have to deal with other viruses. I see that you are planning to appoint a 'corona' commissioner. Yes, but to do what? If it is to create a tenth minister who will try to agree on the other nine ministers, that does not seem to me a good idea. It is the responsibility of the federal Minister of Health to take the lead in managing the epidemic and to change all the health ministers of the federated entities in the same direction. On the other hand, and I would like to speak directly to the Minister of Health, what is still sorely lacking today is operational and effective. Because the testing centres are still saturated today, because the situation of the general practitioners, on the front line, will not improve in the coming weeks, with autumn and winter, because the shortages, the delays in obtaining the results of the tests are too long before the launch of the tracing, no, all this does not allow the most effective management possible to break the transmission chains of the epidemic and control it. The flu vaccine: Mr. Minister of Health, the PDB today calls for slowing down the vaccination of people over fifty years of age against influenza, or even at all, even though the authorities have made it clear that these people are precisely the target audience to be vaccinated. There is behind a shortage or a beginning of shortage of the flu vaccine. This is an urgent problem, to which you will have to find an immediate solution even if you have just arrived, since we are in the midst of vaccination. I close the chapter on coronavirus, and I would like to welcome the health objectives that you have put in place. The first objective is to raise Belgium to the top 10 in the European countries' rankings for healthy life expectancy. Our country is eleventh. This objective is therefore not extremely ambitious. Remember that we are already in the top 10 of this ranking for the ages of 50 and 65 (we are even well placed, in the sixth and seventh places). What I think is much more important is to have an indicator and a goal for healthy life expectancy in relation to health inequalities. There, we have a gender differential, but also depending on whether the level of training and education is low or high. This is a major issue if we are to improve the overall health of the Belgian population as a whole tomorrow. I think it is on this type of indicators and on health inequalities that you need to focus on the objectives to be achieved. Issues of accessibility and quality of care are important. In a previous inquiry by one of your colleagues, I have already raised questions about the standard of growth and your budget. 2.5 per cent of the growth standard, plus 1.2 billion, represents 4 billion by 2024. When we see that the new policies of the whole government amount to 3.5 billion in structural policies, and I stress this adjective, we have the right to ask ourselves questions about how you are going to achieve this. Are you going to start by saving money in health care? I also have questions and even a little misunderstanding about how you have agreed on health because, if I read your government agreement well, it seems to be a step backwards since the government will let the medico-social partners discuss it and normally, I recall, decide, but it is written black and white in your government agreement that, basically, you will let them go together and then the government, in a second step, will decide – you know this matter well as I do. I still think that on this subject we have a little difficulty but we will have the opportunity to talk about it later. The issue of mental health is certainly a positive one. Perhaps I would like to make a few quick points. You're all saying that with a budget, we're going to be able to hire nurses. Five thousand nurses are missing in Belgium. 5,000. The budget is there, that's not why we're going to be able to hire them. Let me therefore stress the importance of an attractive plan for nurses throughout their careers, whether in terms of training, recognition of specialization, whether in terms of the question of the length of their profession, or in relation to the end-of-career reliefs, to keep them at the bedside of patients, even if there is tutoring in relation to the young nurses engaged, and this is vital, since the mortality and morbidity rate of our patients is directly related to the number of nurses who take care of them. The custody of general medicine: I am obliged to refer, Mr. Minister of Health, because this is an urgent matter since a royal decree was published in the Monitor a few days ago on the organization of the guards of general practitioners. This royal decree clearly raises questions. It runs counter to the agreements that had been concluded, in any case orally. Let me then encourage you to reopen the dialogue on this royal decree, which has barely been published, but which raises questions. The issue of funding hospitals in a structural way is obviously crucial. You know their financial reality, there is also an emergency in relation to the networks, since you reaffirm the networks, since the Belgian competition authority is dealing with this issue. This is particular, since I was surprised to find very recently that the decisions taken by the federal level did not take into account the whole part of the Belgian competition authority. This is a point that needs to be addressed because if we want to move forward on the networks, in the current situation, it will be particularly difficult. Finally on the INAMI numbers. I'm disappointed that there's no agreement in your government program. Yet, you could have, I think, there's a small line in the deal. ... Yes, it doesn't matter. But what is interesting in these lines, even if there are three or four, Prime Minister, what is of interest is what these lines say. In these lines, what I find, in any case, is the principle that a medical graduate cannot, at the end of his studies, be stopped. This principle is still not acquired and - worse - in the government agreement there is this little line on accountability and I understood in the Dutch-speaking press that it was translated into a sanction but the whole is to know who we are going to sanction. But there can be no question for young people who have been involved for years in their studies, that they will be punished once they graduate by preventing them from practicing, and that counts for all the communities in this country, for all the young doctors who are graduates. That's really, I think, the peak. I therefore expect you to respond to this point in a very precise way during the hearings. In summer, spring, a little summer, we wish it, but in the four seasons of Vivaldi, there is also autumn and winter. And in your government agreement there's a note from Vivaldi that always comes out of the score, it's the 'if'. Yes, but I do, unless I do. Many if, if, evaluations, reflections, studies, analyses: 164 times. So on 80 pages, it's still a lot. You are going to tell me that this is not quite unusual but it shows us above all how some parts of the chord are smoothed, coated, conditioned and that the shadow in relation to it settles, with moreover a vision and an interpretation of each musician of the orchestra different on respective symbols. I was just talking about the famous trophies of each color. Too much blur and too much fog, I find, on a number of dossiers, and I would like to arrive now at that of pensions, not with this symbol that you have been highlighting for the last few days because in the background of course the minimum pension is a fundamental question, and when we see the situation of poverty, at all ages elsewhere, not only for pensioners, of course that is an issue. At the same time, this full career pension is less than 20%, about 20% of the citizens, and especially those who today are already at 1 500 euros, 1 550 euros, 1 600 euros, well they too are directly interested, and it is legitimate, by a revalorisation of their pension. So this pension file is poorly embedded under this legislature. When I am told of EUR 1,500, even though we need a comprehensive reform that is effective, with an increase in the participation rate of 55-65 years old, with a clear correction of the injustices which concern women but also mixed careers, with funding that is credible in the medium and long term, paying particular attention to intergenerational solidarity. Because today our young people are suffering from the consequences of the economic crisis, and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow if they were in fine to take on their shoulders the whole burden of pensions, it would obviously not be correct in the sense of this intergenerational solidarity that I have just mentioned. This reform must also contain progress on difficult jobs. So, Prime Minister, an agreement had been reached under the previous legislature for the difficult trades in the public sector, with the agreement of the social partners, what are you going to do on this issue? Are you putting him back into discussion? Do you apply the agreement of the social partners? Do you make sure that there is, of course, the same approach between the public and private sectors? All these issues are important, including to launch a positive partnership with all the social partners. The next issue I would like to mention is climate, energy and climate neutrality ambitions. Madam Prime Minister, I greeted you earlier with regard to your investment, saying that you were not very far away. You weren't first, but you weren't that far away. I'm telling you, you're coming back now, but I'm still telling you live. Prime Minister, it's a little bit, but climate neutrality is not the same on page 56 as on page 59. It's a detail but it still shows you that I read every line of your 84 pages since you announced an ambition of climate neutrality in 2050 on page 56 and in 2040 on page 59. Either we get it, we know what's behind it. It was a little bit, I agree. The other major objective, of course, is to reduce greenhouse gases to 55% by 2030, but it is never in substance that what has already been decided and our commitments at European level. But where I have a question about this file is, is the equation you put on the table conciliatable or not? Greenhouse gases minus 30% in 2030, gas-fired power plants do not increase prices for either households or businesses and security of supply. That's the equation you put on the table. I don't know if it's conciliatable. I don't know if this equation is possible but it needs to be resolved quickly because you need a clear course for investors. The blurring that can persist is not going to fix the cans because it will clearly be a brake on investment. It seems to me that you have an interest in clarifying things much more quickly in a year's time. The subject that I would like to address next is taxation. I said earlier that some people had expressed themselves by saying that there would be taxes or that there would be no taxes, I don't come back. There is still the widening of the tax base, there is the famous 'corona contribution', of which it is not known whether it is one shot or structural, whether it will be with the beacons that will have to be put, but it must be recognized that on this chapter, the negotiators have a real writing talent to sometimes claim everything and its opposite. The most striking thing about this is the fact that there will be no new tax, except when making the budget... You will understand that citizens, like us, are obviously quite dubious about the way in which all this is to be interpreted. Is there a need for fairer taxation? The answer is, of course, yes. But today, in your agreement, there are many nebulous elements. There are also contradictions, and on that we will expect clarifications. As far as families and family-work reconciliation are concerned, you said yesterday, Prime Minister, that we were in the women's century, while talking about paternity leave. I know why, I know your argument about it, and I can join it, in any case in part, since it is true that by putting everything on the shoulders of the woman, it can be a brake on professional careers. I will just allow myself to tell you that perhaps, even before paternity leave – of which it is not known whether it will be compulsory or not, but we will surely return to it in the future – we must remember that some mothers are still only considered half-mamans. I think that for these, there is still a priority. This is the case for the self-employed, as is the case for the families who adopt. We have taken a principle to try to move forward, but the number of days these families are really entitled to today is nothing. When you adopt, it's like giving birth: you need time with your child – it's also the case for both parents. In this regard, Prime Minister, perhaps before your paternity leave, you will think of those who are still half-mamans today. You mention the fact of simplifying the thematic holidays – but the devil is still hiding in the details, and we will see what'simplifying' the thematic holidays means: will it be in the sense of a reduction or not, we will see it. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to women's rights in a more general way, since women's associations are already, and rightly so, questioning where women's rights really are. Do we already have an integrated plan on women's rights? What about women's pensions, the length of work performed by women and, above all, what means will be made available to combat violence against women? Your score also contains silences, or near-silences, about files that, in our view, are important. That of close caregivers, for example. It was a long-standing priority for at least five of the seven parties in your government. You're gonna tell me there's a line, which is true. There's a line, but it's about taxation. This means that for close caregivers, who put their lives in parentheses sometimes for many months or even years, to care for a loved one who loses autonomy or a person with a disability, there is great disappointment. But things may change. Another silence or quasi-silence, on the status of artists, where there is nothing concrete, no budget, no agreement. On the citizen service for our young people: here too, I thought I understood that there was, on the part of a good part of the parties of your majority, something that could have moved, but that is not the case. Finally, the issue of the overflight of Brussels is very, very summarized. I remember the comparison with the previous government, where there was a little more volume, including in terms of consultation with the Brussels region, we should also say with the other regions. So, with regard to the overflight of Brussels, there are many questions: have you had an agreement or not? Is he in a notule or not? If there's no Atoma notebook, maybe there's some nipples. In any case, transparency towards citizens, in this case towards the citizens concerned, would bode well. On all these issues, we will see how they might or might not evolve positively. Before concluding, I might also like to mention a false note from the Vivaldi coalition. We talked about it earlier, especially with Maxime Prévot, so I'm going to be very short. This false note, or what appears as such, concerns the institutional aspect. We share your view on an institutional system which absolutely requires a better distribution of competences and which must first and foremost be reviewed with a much more effective sense of efficiency. You said, "We're going to have a debate, but we're going to have a debate without taboos, without taboos." To this end, there is a whole series of paragraphs, one of which particularly points out: you say that the government wishes to incorporate the legal texts concerning a more homogeneous distribution of powers in the field of health care during this legislature. The goal, you say, is to provide care as close as possible to patients (in parentheses, in federated entities), without affecting solidarity funding. When people talk to me about a debate without taboos, when people talk about debates with citizens, with academics, I think, naively, things are not played out in advance. But when I read "provide care as close as possible to patients (in the federated entities)", your agreement seems, in fact, to prejudge from now on this debate without taboo on the distribution of competences, already providing that in the field of health, the requirement of homogeneity must lead to the defederalization of health care. We are not convinced, on the contrary, that it is a guarantee of efficiency, the crisis of the VOCID-19 I has demonstrated once again – I am delighted that it makes you smile, even laugh, in your personal capacity. But I'm also going to tell you that I don't think it makes health actors laugh. For the citizens you are going to associate with your debates, saying without taboo, this may not be very respectful. For academics too, we said earlier with the big, participatory citizen debates, and so much the better, if you decide in advance that it will go in one direction, as soon as you say, this legislature, then we have a problem. On this point, we are concerned. Prime Minister, you have an immense responsibility in your hands. You must respond to the major challenges – health, economic, social, climate – and ensure the safety of every Belgian. You must also reassure the citizens, who are worried, and above all bring solutions to their daily problems. You must, at last, restore confidence. Today, we give you the benefit of the doubt. That is why tomorrow we will abstain in the vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u154	Mr. President, I had a question for Mrs. Fonck. It is on the previous point, in fact: you say that you have doubts about the idea of regionalizing health care. You also experienced the crisis of the coronavirus and my question was: cdH, how does it position itself? Are you, as a cdH, more in favour of re-federalization or are you also in favour of regionalization and, therefore, of a division of health?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u155	Mr President, I will answer the question, if you don't mind. At the time when the first and only 'pandemic' plan was drafted, I was in the French Community. You see it goes back... not until twenty-five years ago, I'm still not so old! This plan has never been updated since. We were eight or nine health ministers. I already said that it was eight or nine ministers too much in relation to the size of Belgium. Given the way in which care is organized on the ground, if we are to achieve the most equitable possible access to quality care for patients, I think that only one Minister of Health is much needed. So, yes, we are in favour of the re-federalization of health care. I agree with what was said earlier. It is true that today we have far too many Francophone ministers of health. Again, without major decisions being necessary, Francophone governments, including the Walloon government, could take initiatives to bring health skills together and, at the very least, reduce by half the number of ministers in the Francophone area of health. I think I answered you, dear colleague. Prime Minister, we give you the benefit of the doubt. Tomorrow, in the vote of confidence, we will abstain. But we want to tell you this: yesterday, you talked a lot about trust, but trust, it's not decreed, it's built. This confidence can only be built through the transmission of a message that is clear, of a speech-truth, without false promises, without deceiving the Belgians. This trust, Prime Minister, can only be built through effective, ambitious and coherent action. We'll see if the government takes this course or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the country whose action you are leading today is a country that is suffering. He suffers from six months of battle against an invisible and insidious adversary with destructive consequences, which has deeply reached our country, including its certainties. He suffers from his 10,000 missing and as many bereaved families, people with other diseases, whose treatment and prevention have been interrupted. It is suffering from an economic crisis that is lastingly weakening our economy and that is only just beginning. It also suffers, it must be said, of fifteen months of an unworthy political crisis, in which the entire political class has suffered lasting damage, often preferring ego games to common sense solutions, preferring partisan interest before the general interest. This virus and the ensuing crisis have also made the weakest citizens even weaker; it has weakened the middle classes; it has also revealed the seriousness of situations that pre-existed, such as that of the health workers, the most precarious jobs, which is said to be essential, or artists. Our country is going badly and it was really high time that it had a government, even a little imperfect. We have already seen it, I believe, all day long today: there are in front of you two oppositions; that of the extremes that will cut you off every three minutes, that will never let you pass anything and that simply wish you to fail; and then there is an opposition, certainly more modest, but more constructive, that will be critical, but that wants you to succeed. You must be able to say that, there are very good elements in your government agreement: the refinancing of health, justice and police, parental leave and even this famous pension of 1,500 euros. Don't worry, I'm not going to reopen the lid to find out if it's crude or net; I think we've all now understood well, at least I think I understand that you want it very strongly to be 1,500 euros net, but you don't know for when, maybe for 2024, maybe for later. It's true that you can be driven for a long time on the "around 1,500 euros net", it makes you think, for the most cinemaphilic, of the famous "to the infinite and beyond", because it's about that: you could have said about 2,000, about 2,500, about 3,000, it's the same direction after all. On pensions, there are two small phenomena that have been underestimated; they have been briefly stated by some of my colleagues. First of all, it's the question of women, because everyone is sacusing on this 1,500 euros gross or net, but it's for a full career. You may know that, Prime Minister, but the average career of women lasts 32 years. This joint government, which has a state secretariat dedicated to women's rights, I am sure, will also find a solution to alleviate this inequality. The other thing is a real little disappointment: it is the question of penitibility. Unless you're wrong, in your statement, there's no word about the painful nature of the trades. This is a real problem and it is a real failure, which I encourage you to correct. What is striking, Prime Minister, is that the coronavirus has provided you with the necessary cement to form this government agreement. I explain to myself: it was he who made it possible to untie the cords of the purse and not to make choices that are usually made with a much more closed envelope. It is thanks to the virus and thanks to the European Central Bank that you can afford to add red, blue, green and orange measures, to the point of sometimes allowing you to speculate recklessly on certain resources. This is the worst news ever. As for taxation, I can tell you in a way that is much more sympathetic than most of my predecessors, but there is a real problem of blurry. First of all with regard to the great tax reform that you are announcing, if it can obtain a broad consensus a priori, as soon as we dig, we are a little lost. For example, you want to reduce the tax burden on work, very well. Will it be by increasing the tax-exempt quota to the poverty line, or by reshaping the tax brackets, or perhaps both? Mystery, we'll see. I am not going to reopen the cover of the famous mysterious wealth tax, because the N-VA has tried to torture you for an hour on it and you have not spoken, so we will see what form it will take; but the taxpayer has the right to be able to anticipate what it is. We can of course read the end of the meal and eco-cheques, offset, I imagine, by an increase in salary, and in this regard I remind you, as far as necessary, that the company car in its car-wage formulation is also another form of alternative remuneration. In all logic, following the philosophy of your government agreement is an advantage that should have disappeared as well. Well, no, instead, corporate vehicles will have to be carbon neutral in 2026. In other words, Prime Minister, despite this government's ecological footprint, we will continue to promote the use of the car as a primary and essential mode of transportation, with a system that – we must remember – costs the community some $2 billion a year. This is a huge missed opportunity for mobility and public finances. Secondly, there is the fact that the government agreement provides that no new tax will be introduced unless, by chance, we find ourselves having to make budgets. As it is generally in those moments that taxes are invented, I believe that we have in front of us a pearl of fiscal jesuitism, whose encounter with the principle of reality we will carefully examine, which, I suppose, should be soon. Finally, there is the famous chestnut tree in the plan to combat tax fraud. This is found in all government agreements, it is never fully respected in its ambitions. I'm not interested in knowing with small tables whether it's one or two billion that you want to raise; it's about knowing how you're going to look for them, and in particular – but it's a question I'm not asking you to answer right now – what the means you're going to give the tax administration to prosecute the biggest fraudsters. We all know what this really is the kind of situation that needs to be spent in order to be able to harvest. On the institutional front, we want to welcome the idea of preparing a reform of the state by launching a broad consultation with civil society, academia and citizens. We find the idea all the better because it's ours. We defended it in our programme in the last elections, then in some loneliness. We imagined a reform of the state for the first time, not on the identity of one or the need for money of the other, but on the real reason and needs of the citizens. If that is what this is about, if it is a federalism of cooperation and respect, if it is a question of homogeneity of competences and efficiency, then we will sincerely be at your side, with a small bliss: let us not forget to evaluate the reforms of the previous state, and especially the sixth, which no longer finds any frank and firm defenders, and which everyone recognizes as relatively disastrous, including all the parties of Vivaldi, who have voted for it. Another flat behind this intention – I'm going to bounce back on what Mrs Fonck said earlier – we have a little concern about the fate announced on health care. I will read again what Mrs Fonck had already read: "The government wishes to incorporate the legal texts concerning a more homogeneous distribution of powers in the field of health care during this term of office. The aim is to provide the patient (federal entities) as close as possible without affecting its solidarity funding." Like a lot of phrases in your government agreement, you have to read it five times to make sure you understand all the multiple drawers and everything that's hidden in the slippers. Clearly, this is the announcement of barely veiled de-federalization of health care, as confirmed by the following passages. There is a real contradiction: either we are really taboo-free – I know that it has forbidden words like the word "re-federalization" because the CD&V would be annoyed – or there is a direction; here we have the impression that there is a direction and it is unique to have it on the issue of health care. Ladies and gentlemen, have we lived on the same planet for six months, because sincerely, if there is a sector where it has recently been proven that too much scattering was indeed a problem, it seems to me, is clearly that of health. We will once again, once again, in this country, reform and divide a sector without evaluating it and without giving it the floor, even though I have seen that it is obviously a question of consulting it. We pleaded some time ago for general states of health. I reiterate this call and ask Vivaldi to hear it, no longer carry out any reform, with or without regionalisation, without putting the whole system down with the help of the actors concerned: hospitals, general practitioners, nurses and nurses at home, mutuals. Perhaps also, expect the results of the various VOCID special commissions in the federal and federated entities. Maybe their conclusions can teach us something. A small point which I believe has not been mentioned by anyone and which we are concerned about is Article 195. You are already announcing that you are going to bring yourself with a list of articles to be revised extremely early, including this article 195, which organizes the procedure for the revision of the Constitution. It is the keystone of our fundamental law and it has been years since a certain section of the political spectrum called for it to be revised in order to make the revision of our Constitution much easier and malleable, we see for what purpose. For me, these are essential safeguards and I really ask that those who care about the future of this country, even if they have signed agreements, think twice the day that this article will have to be included for revision. One element of the government's agreement also deserves special attention, it has been mentioned little, it is the aerial overflight of Brussels and its immediate periphery. It is planned that the government will find, I quote, "a solution for noise nuisances and for the legal insecurity that the Brussels airport is facing. The government will therefore table a bill to that effect without any date being fixed." Let me remind you that the aerial overflight causes many nuisances to the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned, in Brussels and in the periphery. For almost 25 years, it has unlawfully and disproportionately violated fundamental rights and, above all, the right to a healthy environment. For almost 25 years, my group, but also many associations, have been fully involved in this issue. We defend the establishment of a comprehensive national airport strategy in accordance with the noise standards laid down by the Gosuin decree, the only legal weapon enabling the Brussels Region and its periphery to enforce the rights of the inhabitants. For almost 25 years, successive ministers, regardless of their political colour, have failed to bring a balanced and lasting solution to the overflight of Brussels and its periphery. We hope that this government and Mr Gilkinet will succeed, but we are still a little sceptical. In terms of the functioning of the police areas, the system is being reviewed in order to promote the optimal size of the police areas in the text. Another drawer formula, which your statement is unfortunately filled, drawers in which everyone will put what he wants, but finally, I believe that we see things coming; let us play cards on the table, we all know that in watermark there is a desire to simply merge the police areas in Brussels, visibly without the opinion of the Brusselsers, their Parliament, their commune, their regional security council and against the evidence of the added value of a proximity police for a capital with very different realities from one neighbourhood to another. As a reminder, the studies carried out have shown that the merger of police areas in Brussels would not be more effective. Let us keep, please, a purely irrational political debate that does not serve the interests of the population. In migration, a subject that is dear to me, I want to greet from the bottom of my heart a real progress: the end of the confinement of minors in a closed centre. It is all to the honour of this government and it is a point that, for us, too, will have been crucial. Another positive point is the different audit strategies of the Office for Foreigners and other structures that will be launched. My problem is that this is a little the only real good news and that the sector was waiting for much stronger progress, particularly on the regularisation of undocumented people, and this sector will be deeply disappointed. There is a need for more migration justice and I refer in this regard to our bill currently under discussion on regularization. I call on the government to take into account the fate of these men, women and children, finally laying down clear criteria for regularization in the law, together with an independent regularization commission. I'm going to quote a relative forgotten, it's the world of artists. I know, you talk about it, there are two sentences that evoke the possibility of making an artist status. It is not firm enough for me, because the ideal would have been to see how skills are distributed. There was a series of proposals from ourselves and the MR to say that an artist minister would be needed; one or one minister would have to collate all the cultural skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u157	Mr President, I think the question of the status of artists is an important one. I find that in the period of crisis the importance of this sector has been well demonstrated and that the world of artists in the broad sense has nevertheless been very constructive in a situation that was very painful, which has opened the eyes of many people in relation to the situation. You say that there are only two sentences; perhaps, but what is more important is that a budget of 75 million euros has been entered, including this famous table on which some have a strong opinion. There is a combination of two sentences, which are indeed quite general, because you know very well that the situation is still very complex. We can say that we have doubts, but the fact that we put in 75 million, I think that still has to remove doubts and I think that is a good thing. I can't imagine I couldn't take away your doubts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u158	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are right, but let me clarify what I really would have wanted to be a complete party, if I dare say: in the proposals that DéFI had made and which the MR also made when he also presented a vision of the status of artist, there was the idea of a meeting of all cultural and artistic matters in a portfolio. This is important because I lived through these debates, I was in the Committee on Social Affairs, I participated, along with others, with a large number of parties present, in measures that succeeded in improving the fate of artists during the crisis. There is this side of subsidization, there is this idea that no one is really in charge – it's not a detail, you'll see – of the situation of artists in the federal government and I'll list you. All right, you have the budget, okay, you have two sentences and therefore the intention, but let's take stock of where the subjects are: employment is at Mr Dermagne's, taxation at Mr. Van Peteghem, the museums are at M. Dermine, the cultural institutions at Mme Wilmès, the Régie des Bâtiments at M. Michel and the financing of the major renovations, via Beliris, at Mme Lalieux. For culture, the distribution of your skills so divided is a missed historical opportunity and I ask a question: you have the budget and you have the intention, but who will start the work? Which of the eminences I have quoted will have to put the subject on the table and say, "OK, let's go, let's make an artist status"? If you don't have the answer to that question yet...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u159	That's him! (Mrs. Lalieux said Mr. Dermagne)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u160	All right, it's noted for the VP. So actually it is that we will find it difficult to move forward. But I take note of your intentions and hope that we can move forward. However, it is very important for artists to have one contact. Prime Minister, to conclude slowly, in a word, we will judge Vivaldi on the sum of her resignations. Your statement is a catalogue of good intentions in which everything seems possible: the best, we hope, but also the worst, and we are preparing for it. Our intention is to be the voice of those you forget. The voice, for example, of the 500 women a year forced to go abort late in the Netherlands, who take your commission of the law on abortion as a slap, a slap that will not be bought simply by parity or by a secretariat for equality, because equality is acts and not just functions. The voice of the world of night and event, in clinical death waiting for your support. The voice of the caregivers, to whom you promise millions – and I know they will be there – but that you are preparing, again, to reorganize and divide. The voice of the independents and of the Horeca, on the wire for months despite – and I would like to say so – the action of Mrs Wilmès's government and yours, which have greatly contributed to the destruction, and the voice of the undocumented, for which, in the end, absolutely nothing will change. A final word about your coherence, to situate exactly where our concern lies: in his social contract, the philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau distinguishes between the general will and the will of all: the will of all, it is only the addition of particular wills without harmony, without any other purpose than the addition itself. The general will, on the contrary, is synthesis, that is what every citizen should want for the good of all and not only for his own interest. By listening to you and reading you, Prime Minister, I still feel like I am faced with an addition of particular wills united above all by necessity and a little by fear, but not yet by envy, even if it may still come. But to get our citizens to join, we're going to need envy. For all these reasons, Prime Minister, we cannot vote for confidence. I think you will survive it, I think you do not need it fundamentally, I think that the weight of your concessions is very much enough to assure you a majority. Nevertheless, I sincerely wish you and your team the best of luck. May you find the right tone and gradually turn your symphony into a general will that transcends each of the parties that make up our coalition, it is in the name of the interests of all the citizens of our country and that is all the evil that I wish you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u161	I now give the floor to Jean-Marie Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u162	Mr President, if you are the last person to speak, you have the advantage of listening to everyone. But you also have the disadvantage that everything has already been said and that you can repeat. That is why I shall be brief, Mr President. I will probably have enough for 15 minutes unless the ministers wish to interrupt me. Mr Prime Minister, two things struck me in your speech yesterday, the day before yesterday: your question of respect and your remark that democratic rights have never been definitively acquired. The first form of respect in a democracy, Minister, is respect for the electorate. This government should actually reflect what the electorate decided on 26 May 2019, when we last went to the ballot box. Not only is she not a reflection of it, she is even the opposite of what the voter decided at the time. Of the seven parties that make up your new board, five were punished at that ballot. Two of them, sp.a. and CD&V, even experienced the worst result of their history. In total, your party and your coalition partners lost 21 seats in Parliament, as well as the support of 654,000 voters. That punishment was so humiliating that you yourself said, Prime Minister, that you would find it undemocratic that your party would still rule. I quote literally from your interview of 31 August 2019: Without PS and N-VA you will never get a stable government. I don't like a purple-green government. I wasn't even allowed to be offered the premiership on a saucer. Open Vld didn't do well in the election. We're the seventh party in parliament. You have to respect democracy. As prime minister without power, you're the government's mop. I thought that was a wonderful analysis, Prime Minister. And see today, the Walloon rooster hadn't crowd three times or the Flemish blue lion was already lying flat like a wet mop. Since your confession, Prime Minister, nothing has been done but to turn around to remain in power and ignore the will of the electorate. During 490 days all kinds of machinations were set up to exclude the two largest Flemish parties in this country from government participation. And not just the two largest parties of the Flemish country, but of the whole country. This is what I call "excusez le mot" spitting in the face of the Flemish electorate. The Flemings account for 70% of the tax revenue in this country and 82% of exports. But they are a minority in this government, a government of seven parties and four ideologies. Even when seven dwarfs stand on each other's shoulders, it still doesn't turn into a giant. The only glue between Vivaldi's purple-green coalition partners is the fear of choosing new ones. Secondly, speaking of respect, Prime Minister. I heard from the party chairman on sloefkes a beautiful boltade: Hebben back, bitches! I don't know who the bitches are, but I know who he is by now. That's Mr. Frank Vandenbroucke, who's here. I immediately got a flashback to the first purple-green government I've been through. My first government in Parliament in 1999 was about 20 kilos ago for me. Minister Vandenbroucke is an old mess in the business. From 1999 to 2004, he was Minister of Social Affairs and Pensions in that purple-green government of Verhofstadt and Onkelinx. Since the queenpiece of your government statement is the promise to raise all minimum pensions to net 1,500 euros, Professor Vandenbroucke is the ideal man to be at the helm in the reissue of purple-green. Under his policy of Minister of Pensions, the Silver Fund was held above the baptismal font. I called it a Teletubby Johan Vande Lanotte scam to fill the gap in his budget. It was an empty box that only served to cover up the sale of the sale-and-lease-back operations. Purple-green also robbed 5 billion euros from Belgacom's pension fund and looted the pension funds of BIAC, Belgocontrol, SNCB and the port of Antwerp. For this legalized theft of our heritage, for our furniture and our household goods and also for plundering that pension fund, the taxpayer has to cough up 620 million euros a year today. This is the pension we got from purple-green. Hence, Minister, I am rather suspicious of purple-green constructions. Mr Vandenbroucke, you have something to right here in this government. That is why, Prime Minister, I am also suspicious of your promise to provide everyone with a minimum net pension of EUR 1,500. Our pension costs, ladies and gentlemen, are already approaching the EUR 50 billion per year or 11% of our GDP. According to the OECD, this will reach 15% of our GDP by 2050, because life expectancy will be 87 years. While in the Netherlands the system of individual pension formation virtually retains its bet on retirement, the average Belgian falls back to 62 % of his last wager. This means that his purchasing power immediately decreases by 38%. In Luxembourg, 88 per cent of his salary is left, and even in Italy, the figure is 93 per cent. Prime Minister, we are paying the highest taxes in Europe and we still have the lowest pensions. I am absolutely in favour of this EUR 1,500. But I wonder who's gonna pay for it? To give everyone 1,500 euros, this will cost 3.2 billion more every year. If you know that some 1.2 million elderly people are getting less than 1,500 euros in their pension bags every month, then I would like to know how you will pay for this. One more spicy detail, in 1950 there was one retired for ten workers, today there are 4.6. Prime Minister, since 1999, when purple-green was held above baptismal font, your liberal party has been in power for over twenty years. Elections after elections were seduced by liberal voters with slogans such as less taxes, less regulation and structural savings. But that was nothing more and nothing less than peasant deception. Since then, we have been virtually world champions in paying taxes and in government property, more than 50% of our income. For example, the tax burden on a single person's wage is still an absolute world record of almost 54%. Tax revenues amounted to EUR 72 billion in 2000 and EUR 117 billion in 2019. Public debt amounted to EUR 251 billion in 2000 and today it has risen to EUR 483 billion and is growing by EUR 507 every second. The debt ratio relative to GDP in 2000 was 108 %, today the Monitoring Committee talks about 122 %. The corona virus is no excuse not to work on cleaning up our tax barn. In the Netherlands, unlike here, despite the corona crisis, public debt is falling by 350 euros per second. Here it rises by 507 euros per second. I also get another feeling of déjà vu with the purple-green coalition. It was also decided in 2002 to close the nuclear power plants by 2014, provided that the supply of electricity would not be compromised. Twenty years later, I'm reading the same string here. Everyone knows that if we close our nuclear power plants, the light goes out, we can buy candles and CO2 emissions from gas plants are 43 times higher than nuclear emissions. Then I am not talking about the cost of the billions and the bill for the new gas plants. But in order to form this government, one must feed the green fetish, just like the first purple-green government. The biggest legacy of the previous purple-green government is that our electricity bill was then turned into a tax bill. An average family now pays more than EUR 500 per year for green taxes, Mr Gilkinet. Where will you get the money to pay for your pension promises and climate change, because there will supposedly be no new taxes for those who work, save or undertake. Will you be okay with the increase in efficacy? Well, I'm telling you, bonne chance! There's still a lot of work to be done. In Flanders, the rate of effectiveness is high, 75%, but still 5%; in Wallonia it is 64 % and in Brussels it is 61 %. Of migrants aged between 20 and 65, only 53% are at work. Where is the big project, Minister, on fair taxation? In your coalition agreement, I read nothing more than the classic tricks of the foor, such as the fight against fraud, deposit money as a green pest tax, smoking out smokers, taxing motorists and ghost taxes, such as the digitals. Be honest, Walloon friends, you look so much at France. The French had thought to introduce a digitaks. They put the project away before it was there, because the Americans would take countermeasures and the export taxes would be even higher than the proceeds of the digitals. Speaking of digitalisation, I don't see the Minister of Justice anymore, I'm totally behind it. For thirty years there has been efforts to digitize Justice, but today the pigeons are even more active than e-mail traffic. I read that this government is also going to fight fake news. I quote: 'The government strengthens measures to combat disinformation and the spread of fake news, which pose a real threat to democracy'. It smells like censorship, Prime Minister. But if you still want to fight fake news, I suggest you start with this coalition agreement, because it contains little news and especially many fake promises. This purple-green chord is mainly red with green stripes, here and there a small blue spot and in the middle a dot of orange for the shape. All your coalition agreement is a maybe-case, a maybe-story with a lot of delay. Maybe a pension of 1,500 euros. Perhaps the closure of nuclear power stations. Maybe a state reform. Maybe July 11th as a holiday. Maybe not an increase in taxes. Maybe climate-neutral by 2050 and maybe an efficacy rate of 80%, but in 2030. All nice ambitions you can't be reckoned with, as long as you rule until 2024. The bar is so low, you have to be a limbo dancer to get under it. Dear Prime Minister, I will close. You ask for trust for parties that do not themselves enjoy the trust of the people, let alone give me the confidence. I'm going to conclude with an old Flemish saying that your purple-green ruler statement sums up perfectly: a lot of promise and little giving makes the fools live in joy. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u163	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are living an important moment with the establishment of this new government. We are living an important moment, because our country is going through the most serious crisis since the Second World War, at the health, social and economic levels. We are living an important moment, because many of our fellow citizens today live in difficult, precarious conditions, no longer able to make ends meet or, simply, no longer able to live from their activity. We are living an important moment, because for the first time in a long time, a coalition of parties has succeeded in reaching agreement on a government programme that has the will to clearly state the issues we are facing. With a real will to give a positive future, a positive project for Belgium, and above all for its inhabitants, by not only robbing ourselves of the next election, but also by giving itself a horizon for 2030 in order not only to celebrate the 200 years of our country, but above all to allow us to have a future that is placed under the sign of respect, of the will for collaboration and no longer of division, a project whose master words in our eyes will be serenity, humility, gathering and mutual respect. Beyond the necessary solutions to be put in place – and I shall come back a little bit later – at the level of social, climatic and economic issues, a goal is really essential for our group – and we obviously hope that it will lead this coalition – is to reconnect with citizens. But this requires, of course, more on the ground, listening, adopting exemplary behaviour and opening Parliament's doors and windows, with a view to building together, elected and citizens, solutions that address common concerns. But it also means having a government in the image of the population and of all its diversity. We are proud that this team, your team, Prime Minister, is not only equal at the gender level, but also integrates all the diversities present in society. This is a strong signal that we fully support. To return to the gap that I think we can all see, which separates our fellow citizens from politics, this gap is also widened by small phrases, displaced ego quarrels, outrageous statements in political debates, or political calculations that no longer take into account the general interest. These political practices of another age literally damage our democracy. This coalition, we hope, will have the ambition to incarnate a real renewal in the way of politics and in the way of public debate. This renewal is essential to us, because inaction and repeated political quarrels only feed populism, feed extremism, feed hate speech, feed back on oneself, divisions, stigmatization and, finally, rejection of everything that is different, and we, as ecologists, always, tirelessly and firmly oppose these discourses and deviations by words, of course, but also by deeds. Concrete actions that must improve the daily lives of our citizens, with particular attention for the most fragile, combining environmental transition, social justice and economic redeployment. Concrete acts and measures, of course, this government agreement contains them. It even contains a whole series of them, but it is the result of compromises shaped after long hours of negotiations, day and night, and which of course must agree to the seven parties that have decided to form a coalition and have negotiated around the table. But in the eyes of my political group, the ambitions and strong ecologist markers are reflected in this agreement. This agreement, Prime Minister, which you yourself have described as the "greenest government agreement in our country's history", I quote. We share that conviction. You can count on us to make these strong proposals come true in the months and years to come. I'll take some of them back. The objective is to be able to detail a little more the important markers in our eyes. At the environmental level, of course, Belgium is finally part of the climate ambitions of the Paris Agreement and the European Green Pact. This link with Europe is really important to us, because it is essential that Belgium regains a role in the European lead in this field. The ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 goes far beyond letters and phrases. I heard too much in speeches critical of objectives, that they were words. It is true that at this stage, these objectives are words. But this is crucial. Crucial, of course, for the preservation of our environment, our ecosystems, but above all for the improvement of the quality of life of our fellow citizens and for the redeployment of our economy, which must be directed towards the circular, towards the low carbon and towards the relocation of activities. At the same time, you are proposing a real investment plan that is dear to us. As you know, I think Prime Minister: we have worked hard in the last Parliament on a 2.0 investment plan, with a specific focus on ecological transition, renewable energy, building insulation, digital transition and mobility. At the level of the energy transition, we have already discussed it – I was going to say this afternoon, but we can almost say tonight, or even part of the night – the government reconfirms the exit of nuclear power and the respect of the legal timetable. A clear, necessary, forward-looking choice, which was expected by all stakeholders in order to invest decisively in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u164	Colleagues, we are going to make an agreement on the arrangements for the work. Normally, Mr Vanden Burre has the opportunity to speak up to 2.10 hours, unless he is wanted to be interrupted. If we can stop Mr Vanden Burre around 2.10 a.m., then the Prime Minister can replicate at that time. This puts the meeting before its own responsibility. Taking into account the frequent interruptions on all kinds of issues, taking into account the fact that you will receive policy letters, taking into account that the budget will in any case have to be submitted to the European Commission around 15 October at that time, Parliament will also be aware of this and you will have the opportunity to discuss all possible issues and points in all committees. I felt that today, as a general debate in the context of a general discussion on a policy statement, was not wrong. If the Prime Minister can replicate today, Parliament will be given the last word in the form of explanations of vote tomorrow. That's my proposal. We are welcome here from 3 p.m. Taking into account more speaking time for the opposition than for the majority, we could then have the replies followed by the vote, because at the latest at 4.30 p.m. we have to leave the European hemisphere. So Mr Vanden Burre is doing his intervention. The Prime Minister responds on behalf of the government, he is also not interrupted as far as possible. Tomorrow Parliament will then have the last word. At 3 p.m., each group will obviously have more speaking time for the opposition than for the majority, 10 minutes versus five minutes.................................................................................................................................................................................. Then you can spare yourself the effort to record it all yourself. Then we get a powerful lock. I think that is a reasonable proposal, taking into account what is coming in ten days' time in terms of budget, policy papers, policy letters and so on. If you wish to continue interrupting now, it will be over and we will give each other rendezvous tomorrow at 10 a.m. in our own hemisphere in the federal Parliament. In that case, of course, we will continue with a limited presence, of course per group, and so be it. But it would, I think, be a credit to Parliament should it be able to put an end to the debate in an orderly manner at this hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u165	Mr President, I am thinking here of the intervention of Mr Vanden Burre, the reply of the Prime Minister and then tomorrow's explanations of vote, because I think there must be the classic last word. Having said that, and I regret that, we of this large group of ministers were able to record only four voices today. It seems to me that this is not enough when a government agreement is presented. Four votes, that's not enough. There are also newcomers, we would like to get to know them, so I think that we should be able to have the thematic discussions at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u166	So be it, but I have not understood, throughout the whole day, that questions have been asked to every member of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u167	Mr President, now you challenge me. Questions have been asked about various issues relating to debt securities. About every issue has been raised and ministers have the right to intervene. Of course, Members cannot be expected from the first intervention to observe that the government remains passive, that the government does not answer any questions and that Members of this House should then be satisfied, assuming that they have the opportunity to ask certain questions within seven or eight hours. I don't think that's right. You may disagree with that, although I, as President of this House... anyway, I do not think that is correct and there have been substantive questions about various competences. The government has chosen not to interfere, except for four members of the government. That is the consequence of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u168	What Mr De Roover is proposing is a change of agenda. Well, then, we're gonna have to take a stand on that. That's an agenda change. The Chamber must give its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u169	Mr President, Mr De Roover, I think you will only be able to assess how many questions have been answered later, as the Prime Minister will reply to us. I actually think it is a strong signal that the Prime Minister is taking care of all these questions and trying to put them together in a coherent explanation. You didn't hear me, colleague De Roover? I was telling, in the context of the important and in-depth parliamentary debate, Mr De Roover, that I think it is a good thing that the Prime Minister brings together the answers and that we have a debate on the main points today. Of course, you are right to say that not all the questions have been answered. We have not yet heard all the ministers, but if people know that hearings and policy papers are coming, I think there will still be plenty of opportunities to hold those debates. I have just made a plea for a Parliament that is dynamic, that takes a great deal of responsibility, that takes a great deal of freedom. Those two things are important: dealing with freedom in a responsible way. So I fully agree with the Prime Minister's proposal. The parliamentary debate is not measured by the number of interventions, by the number of questions, but by the level and also by the efficient organisation, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u170	Mr President, Mr De Roover, I too would like to know all these new excellences, and they have received specific questions today. It's true we haven't heard everyone today. But the proposal to continue the thematic debate tomorrow, at 10 a.m. in the Chamber, with very limited staff, with a time limit has not solved the problem. The problem that arises today, a unique one in the debates on the declaration of government, is that we have a time limit. That problem won't be solved by tomorrow. When we begin these thematic debates, we must also be able to take a decent time and, I assume, Mr President, the timing for voting here in this Chamber is fixed, between 3 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. at the latest. Or is there also a possibility of a change? Otherwise there is no point in dealing with a few more questions in the morning. Your solution seems to me to be the most pragmatic, and then I would ask my patience and curiosity to get to know all these new excellences in terms of the policy letters and the meetings in committee. The other proposal does not seem to me to be feasible, practical.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u171	My intention was to be pragmatic, because there is no denying that I would like to say that because of the way in which we are debating it, and we can later discuss it again, a lot of fellow Members have already asked a lot of detailed questions and touched on a lot of themes. These questions were put to the chairmen of the political groups who stood here in the gallery. I also know that the members of the government who wish to intervene may do so, but we have always had this debate in recent years, not every year, but it was customary for the Prime Minister to bring together the answers and give an answer on behalf of the government. So once again, when it is over here at 3 p.m., the longer we discuss the procedure now, the faster time goes forward, and if we have the Prime Minister replicated in a moment, I do not think he will need an hour to replicate, then tomorrow at 3 p.m., in the presence of the entire press, Parliament will have the last word. That can give explanations of vote of 10 minutes for an opposition party and 5 minutes for a majority party. I'm just suggesting that, out of the loose wrist, I haven't been able to consult. We will then be ready by 4.30 p.m. tomorrow, because then we will have to leave the European hemisphere. This seems to me to be a reasonable and balanced proposal, knowing that the government must deposit the budget with the European Commission before 15 October and that we, as a Parliament, are aware of this at the same time, knowing that all the policy statements are being discussed in the committees. Then you can ask all the questions you'd like to ask. I would once again urge that we should be able to knock on that, because I believe that this is a matter of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u172	Mr President, the use of the term 'common sense', of course, makes it very difficult for you to disagree with it, because I would express a lack of common sense. But I'm kind of stubborn. I will accept the majority, absolutely, no problem at all. But that problem I've just posed, I can't stop saying it. We could even say procedurally here: is it a change of agenda to allow the thematic discussion to continue, or is it a change of agenda not to allow it to continue? I assume, of course, that one majority will be the other...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u173	So you want a vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u174	At first, I need even 50 people to be able to propose a change in the agenda. I know the Rules of Procedure. Of course, apart from the Flemish interest, all the other groups are on our side, but I suspect not...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u175	So I find there's a consensus? [[Assent]] Thanks for that. Thank you for your cooperation. I propose that Mr Vanden Burre continue his presentation and that we try not to interrupt too much, in order to meet the three-hour schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u176	Mr President, I was in the energy transition. This is an important point for us, such as the shutdown of nuclear power plants, which must be done safely, but above all with the support of workers. Direct jobs will be created at the sites themselves, but they will also be created through the massive development of renewable energy. Another important marker that I really want to highlight tonight is mobility. This government will reinvest in public transport, and especially in SNCB. The quality of public transport is in our DNA, it's in the DNA of environmentalists and it will be in this government's DNA. Hundreds of millions of euros will be invested to improve service, punctuality, connections, comfort, accessibility, and of course all in favour of passengers. At the same time, as we have been reminded this afternoon during the debates, and this is an important victory for us, the government will attribute directly to SNCB, for a period of 10 years, the public service mission of passenger transport operator by rail throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u177	Thank you, Mr President, because the reason you interrupted the sitting was, of course, because I asked for the floor. Well, then it seems appropriate for me to be here for a moment...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u178	There's no causal link.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u179	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, you said just now that the key exit was confirmed. Depending on how people read that coalition agreement, there is something else there. It says that in terms of security of supply, we are looking at how that will work and whether it will be possible. I just have to say that the timing used for this is completely unrealistic. It is noted in the agreement that if at that time one only decides at the end of 2021 whether those nuclear power plants remain open for longer, it will no longer be physically possible. We all know the procedure whereby an environmental impact report must be produced before the law can be amended, before these investments can be made, before the SALTO mission can happen and that sort of thing more. I have to say that this whole afternoon I have never wanted to take the trouble to answer that to a number of parties. On the other hand, the Prime Minister also said: 'If I hear something that is factually incorrect, I will intervene.' He did not intervene, so I can only conclude that the government was aware of that problem. The fact that we have written a piece in the agreement that is known to be impossible and that people are actually being fooled. You are talking about closing the gap between politics and the citizen, but you are telling them something with those kinds of passages. So I want to know whether you have registered this in that way and with that intention, or do you have other information? In the meantime, I understand from Knack that the Minister himself does not want to respond, despite the fact that we have a nice debate here where it could be done. I think that is a very unfortunate matter, which seems to confirm my point. But you must convince me otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u180	I'd like to respond to that. We have made a retro-planning and on this basis it is clear that the LTO dossier, which Mr Wollants is talking about, can come to the government later than the end of 2021. So in case of an emergency scenario. This means that the operator must do the EIA and the FANC approval at his own risk. That's not so abnormal. For other operators, this is regarded as a classic business risk, as it should be. It may be that the operator does not agree with this, but in fact it is the logic itself that one does so at one's own risk and that timing is perfectly feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u181	I will respond to that very briefly. In fact, you are passing the debate and you are now asking the operator: can you please submit a file that is in breach of the law today? That is what you are actually asking as a government, because today the operator has no record to file at all because the law forbids it. Now if you'd say, "There's a piste, we'll handle it." But you won't. What you are doing is saying that that operator must draw its plan and act against the law to prepare a file that we do not know about or want to change the law for it. I think this is a very special way of dealing with the confidence of businesses, but also of citizens who do not know at all today whether this is the only passage in which you actually put a note on people's sleeves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u182	Mr. Chair, I also wanted to continue on the socio-economic side, because it is another aspect that is important to us and an important ecologist marker. For us, no ecological transition worthy of this name can be made without social justice, it is an absolute conviction. Social measures are the other important pillar in this agreement on which we base our vision of society. I will of course start with the core of our national solidarity mechanism, social security: it will be strengthened and its financing sustained. This commitment and ambition, which are contained in the agreement, are fundamental to us and we really see them as a victory. There is even a series of commitments made during the celebration of the 75th anniversary of social security. For us, it is an extremely strong marker. In a very concrete way, in order to continue with the measures that are being taken, I really wanted to go back to three measures that are of particular interest to us. I would be remiss not to mention them, because our parliamentary group has been fighting for a long time in Parliament – we have talked about work in Parliament, about dynamism in parliamentary committees and in debates – and, really, we have been fighting for a long time to get them, and they find themselves, these three struggles, in the agreement. First, the lengthening of the birth leave for fathers and co-parents, which will finally double in concrete terms to go from ten to twenty days. Frankly, it was time, because Belgium is clearly lagging behind in this area and today, some have again described symbolic measures, figures on paper. But today, in the 21st century, it is much more than that: it is a fundamental signal. A signal is sent that gives more equality between women and men, but also a better division of labour at home, a better balance between family and work life and, finally, time for dads and co-parents to take time to accommodate a new family member. Today, therefore, beyond the growing days of leave, there is also a change of culture, a change of vision of the family, but also of time: working time, time at home, balance within the couple. For us, these are very important markers. The second fight is the structural introduction of a corona parental leave by the end of the year. This is an important step because too many parents today see their child blocked at home without a solution. We saw it, it was set up but it wasn't extended, it's going to be now. Again, this is important because we are responding to the concrete concerns of our fellow citizens and I think that this is the strength of a government agreement. Thirdly, the establishment of a genuine social status for artistic professions. No, they're not just sentences again. No, it's not just a few lines. Of course, these are a few lines, but some strong lines, because behind there is a budget, this has been confirmed. So this expectation, which has been going on for months, years, concerning a real status for the current and emerging artists, is a real victory, for which we have been fighting for a long time because yes, culture is there, at the heart of our lives. Today, we all miss it terribly, and it is really time to mobilize and put the financial resources on the table. This is ultimately the most important in the phrases of the government's agreement, it is the budget table to support those who make it live. Another important chapter, many of which have already been said, and so I may be a little less long than I would have been if it were earlier, is health. Of course, we are in the midst of a pandemic of VOCID-19, which is not yet over, we have, of course, talked about the increase in structural funding, which is fundamental to us, but there is another element that I wanted to highlight: that alongside this virus, that we have not finally seen it happen and that the other countries have not seen it happen either, there are risk factors such as old age, disease, poverty, but also pollution, heaths and floods which dramatically affect people and will hit even more severely the most vulnerable and will increase inequalities and therefore for us, obviously beyond the management of VOCID-19, which is fundamental, we also structurally need to put in place, in the protection of the environment and the fight against inequalities, more effective health prevention policies. This marker, for us, is also fundamental. Another important issue that has led to much debate during the election campaign and during the last parliamentary term is justice. I wanted to highlight three points of strength which, for us, are crucial: the independence of justice, its accessibility and the handling of the prison problem. Of course, independence depends on the proper financing of justice, we have talked about it: justice is finally going to be structurally refinanced in our country, budgetary commitments have been made. They are essential because the public service of justice cannot be rendered in an effective manner otherwise and it creates injustice between our fellow citizens. At the same time, accessibility also means ensuring the opening up of the public service of justice, which must not be reserved for the wealthy or those who understand its workings. We have again worked on a bill in the parliamentary committee in recent years, under which we were at the initiative of the reform of legal aid, which has been decided and which significantly increases the financial thresholds for accessibility. The government is part of this continuity and for us, again, it is a real victory. One point which, I think, is the green line of our intervention this night, is political renewal. As I said in the introduction, we must reconcile our fellow citizens with politics, with what we are debating here, with what we are doing and what we are deciding. It is time to open Parliament's doors and windows. We therefore welcome the fact that we are finally talking about experimenting with new forms of citizen participation, mixed committees that bring together elected representatives and citizens, which debate, decide and vote together in parliaments. It is for us fundamental, pilot experiments are being carried out in the German-speaking community and in Brussels, we see that it gives important results to get out of the walls of our Parliament to be in direct debate with our fellow citizens. The youth too, fortunately, has not been forgotten. This has not been discussed very much today, apart from my colleague Kristof Calvo this morning, but for us, the right to vote at 16 is an old and old environmental demand. For us, it is really a real fundamental step forward to enable this youth, for the first time in the European elections, I hope, to get even more involved in the public debate. This young man who goes down the street to remind us – sometimes to kick our backs – of all the important stakes of our century, especially in climate matters. Above all, let them continue to do so!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u183	Mr President, it is a question for you. We had appointments around speaking time. Majority fractions got half an hour. The Green Group has used up half an hour with a speech from Mr Calvo. So they have half an hour as a majority group and opposition groups have an hour. So that's round one. In the second round there is another hour. We are giving Mr Vanden Burre some speaking time, but the second round has actually been abolished. Soit, you said earlier that we would give Mr Vanden Burre until 2.10 a.m. and that the Prime Minister would then speak. I am sorry to say, but I may be a little more interested in hearing the Prime Minister's replies than actually seeing a lot of improper use of the second speaking time wasted here again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u184	What we had said was that speaking time would be globalised and that of course any group could choose. There was normally an hour for the Ecolo-Green Group. Mr Calvo used half an hour of this, and basically... Mr Vanden Burre is about to finish. Could we perhaps listen to his decision out of courtesy and then we will have the Prime Minister's reply at 2:15 p.m. Then we can do anything according to the planned timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u185	Mr President, it is actually an interesting coincidence, because I was just about to address a few words to my Dutch colleagues and fellow citizens. Thank you for that opportunity, Mr Loones. The challenges are enormous and the expectations are very high throughout the country, from Ostend to Arlen and from Eupen to Mouscron, often with the same concerns. Working together and seeking compromises is often difficult, but as ecologists we think it makes us stronger and further forward. In other words, we are convinced that what we do together we actually do better. You will understand, Prime Minister: in conclusion, our group is enthusiastic about the concrete measures, the ambitions compiled in the government's agreement. But this agreement is the result of a compromise, it has been said and repeated, but it marks strong advances in social, climate and economic matters. With our group, however, we will remain vigilant, critical, when necessary, so that these policies that are important to us, described in the agreement, will be implemented, and above all, that the budgets will also be released. For all these reasons, Prime Minister, it is with voluntarism and a sense of responsibility that we will give you our trust just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u186	I can give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking everyone for this exercise. I am not sure whether the European Parliament has any experience with this kind of Belgian political endurance sport. But I do think we left an impression here. I don't know if we'll be invited to this kind of nocturnal scene next time. All in all, I think it was a positive debate and a debate which, as you say, Mr President, has sometimes been carried out in an unusual way. I think that's correct. But it is a debate, I think, in which we have respected each other. It has not led to high-rise screaming as we have seen it too often in the past. Of course, this discussion shows that there are differences. Fortunately, there are differences, it's obvious that there are deep differences in how we see things in our country and how we look at the political debate, but it clearly justifies the fact that there is a majority and an opposition that may have different opinions. In any case, what I want to make clear is that, in terms of the interaction between the government and Parliament, Parliament can count on this government acting very constructively. Parliament shall determine the agenda. Parliament is monitoring the functioning of this government. I will try to go through the issues that have been discussed in a general way. As you know, with a coalition agreement of a small 90 pages: that goes very widely, there are a lot of different themes in it. [[So I have no choice but to make a selection of the topics.]] When you make a selection, it's clear that some people will say, "Yes, but you have selected these and not others". But as the Speaker of the House said, we will have many other opportunities to discuss in detail these agreements and policy notes in committee, where, as we know, there are far fewer limitations and much more opportunities to go into details. Maybe let me start with taxation. In my view, the debate on taxation has almost been based on one paragraph, yet there is so much more in that chapter. On the basis of that discussion, you might think that the new finance minister will be bored in the years to come. I am convinced that that is one of those who will be the least bored. Especially since this government agreement talks about a very thorough preparation of a fundamental fiscal reform. I believe that this is absolutely the way we should do this. We need to take the time to properly analyse that. We are doing this on the basis of a number of objectives, and you have probably seen them in the government agreement, such as increasing employment, supporting our climate ambitions, encouraging entrepreneurship and so many other things. On the basis of a number of principles, for example by broadening the tax base and by making our taxation less susceptible to fraud. This is, from my point of view, the way in which we should do it: first, to study the matter well and to have periods of transition. When you make a tax decision, you know very well that a certain tax uncertainty can arise. We know very well that in a country such as Belgium, which is a small, open economy, the ability to offer some stability in taxation is undoubtedly a very important element. However, perhaps let me come back to the one paragraph on which everything has focused. Perhaps I should read out the essential element: asking for a fair contribution from those who have the greatest capacity, with respect for entrepreneurship. I am actually asking myself why there is so much nervousness about that. We are at a time when over the past six months we have asked about the entire population to do exceptional things. There are people in the medical world who have done exceptional business, with a risk for their own lives. We have asked people in logistics to keep working, to prevent our country from being completely blocked. We've put people in lockdown. Today, we still impose matters on our people that are actually contrary to our way of life. We've been asking for exceptional cases over the past six months at an exceptional time. Is it then illogical that at an exceptional moment you would dare to ask those who have the greatest capacity or it is possible to take an exceptional step at an exceptional time? I think that is absolutely necessary and I still do not understand why about a third of this assembly thinks that such a thing should not even be discussed. Even as a liberal, I defend such a thing. Of course, we must ensure that we do not harm entrepreneurship. Of course, we must ensure that it does not affect the middle class. We know all these elements. But now we're gonna say that something like this is impossible, I can't really imagine that. Another element of the discussion that I noticed was the way in which a government agreement is now being analyzed more and more. In fact, a coalition agreement has become a sort of statistical exercise. One is going to count how many times a particular word is present in it. That is a very mechanical way of looking at a coalition agreement. How many times is that word in there? How many times is this word not in it, or how little is it not in it? At some point I thought, yes, perhaps I should do the same with other government agreements. And then I thought, "Why would I do it? Why would I do something that, from my point of view, is completely contrary to the way in which a government agreement is to be read?" The way to read a government agreement is still to understand what it's for. How is this going to change the lives of our countrymen? How can this give new impetus to our society, which is under pressure today? How is this agreement going to make us waste less talent in our country? How is this agreement going to give our country a direction and unblock our country? In my view, that is not a statistical exercise. Then it is not about how many times there are social partners. And how many times does it say that something will be evaluated and that something will be monitored? The discussion I want to have is: what is the essence of this agreement? I must say that I have missed that a little bit at the moment. However, as a former Minister for Development Cooperation, I should like to say a final word about the discussion that has taken place on this subject. In fact, let me just summarise the discussion on whether there is enough ambition in the section on development cooperation with: I have full confidence in Minister Kitir, and that is actually enough for me. For those of you I will not mention later: I also have full confidence in you. But it was just a way to handle a bit of a difficult discussion. On pensions, too: Mr Vandenbroucke has explained this very well. Pensions are an incredibly complex subject. The complexity of our pensions reflects the complexity of our society, but also the fact that, of course, many reforms have been made with transition periods and with respect for acquired rights, etc. That leads to something very complex. In fact, then, such a complex discussion has been sought to reduce to the question of whether it is a certain amount, or whether it is 'in the direction of'. And is it net or gross? In fact, it seems as if that is the only real discussion, while the real discussion is, of course, that we are making a choice as a majority to raise minimum pensions. Why do we do that? Because we believe that it is absolutely justifiable that people who have a sufficiently long career should be given a pension that allows them to live a decent life. But what one has put less emphasis on, of course, is that if you want to do that... So we have to be sure that the cost of aging is also controlled, that's the real question. The real question is: is one capable of making this effort, which from a social point of view is entirely defensible, by adding also the necessary reforms? Those who have read the text correctly will have seen that the Minister for Pensions will come, I think, around 1 September next year, with a proposal for reform elements which will help to control the cost of ageing so that we can bear this increase which we know. But actually, pensions are about more than that. Mr Vandenbroucke knows very well that pensions and work are actually very closely linked, and that, of course, extending the career is the right discussion. But extending the career in a reasonable way. Yes, I think that in our country the careers should be longer, but the real question is of course: how do you make sure that careers are also bearable longer? One of the elements for this, which I would like to emphasise, is the part-time pension, of which I personally am a big fan, just like soft runways and others. Some spoke of the element of gender in the government agreement. I am not going to repeat the fact that a joint government is something that I am quite proud of. But in fact, it should be a non-issue, as Justin Trudeau said. When he did it a few years ago, he was asked the question: "But why is your government equal?", I think he said, "Need it!" 2016. And I think in Belgium, you could say... It is because it is 2020, but it should have been done for a long time and should not be an issue. I attach particular importance to one element in the government agreement that has not been mentioned: women, girls, too, are excessively exposed to violence and often to sexual violence in our country. When we look at the statistics, we see that we are not handling them properly. We are not doing that right: the number of convictions based on, for example, rapes and sexual assaults is unlikely to be low. Very often women do not dare to press charges. And here we take the example that exists in Ghent. In French, this is called sexual violence centres. In Ghent today there is such a centre that this is multidisciplinary and it is considered internationally absolutely the way to deal with it. That is one of the choices we make, with a budget of EUR 10 million to be able to do so now in every province. I would ask that we certainly not applaud this, because it is something we must do, which is necessary, but on which we, as people, should not be proud. But I am glad that we are taking this measure, because it is necessary. With regard to social dialogue, some said that the expression was too common in the text. Like it's a problem. I do not see how it would be a problem to say that consultation is clearly a central element of how we want to work. Cooperation between parties, I think we have proved this in recent weeks, but also at the social level. I believe that we must give the social partners confidence and that we must assume that the social partners succeed in reaching agreements. It is quite clear, on the basis of what the government indicates: a government which sets out a certain direction of substance, a government which is going to translate it politically, which establishes a budgetary framework and gives it a timing. But if this political direction, the timing and, of course, the budgetary framework are respected, why not give social dialogue the opportunity to work out the details in a way which is widely held, rather than seeing social dialogue as a problem and taking decisions on the basis of a kind of rivalry on the one hand with respect to the other, which actually only leads to measures that are very often contested, whereas there is actually another way to do so. Mr Wollants, on the key issue, I have heard some speakers speak in the debate and ask whether there has been any consultation with the operator. Quite translated: did you go to the operator with your political agreement and ask the operator if he agrees? Isn't that the world upside down? Is a government expected to make decisions or to ask the operator whether it agrees with the decisions taken? In the social dialogue we talk about the primacy of politics. Well, this is really a domain where, in my view, it is about the primacy of politics, the politics that makes social choices, and that must of course be feasible choices. 'Cause I can hear the buzzing on the couches. They will say, "Yes, but you do not know what you are doing. And you make decisions that are ignorant." That is, of course, the criticism that is often expressed by those who are sometimes closer to the sector. But that is also why we have not been able to implement what we had voted on in the past few decades. By the way, the law on the core exit has been approved by many in Parliament, not just by the seven parties in this majority. Many other parties have also approved that nuclear exit law... Not everyone, indeed, Mrs Pas, that is correct, but many others who are very critical about this today have adopted that law on the core exit. That is why we are now faced with the moment when we say very clearly: we want to achieve this. And to realize this, one must have faith in the minister. And I want to be very clear in that: the Minister for Energy, Tinne Van der Straeten, is someone in whom I have confidence to manage that file. And that, too, should actually be enough. Even those who disagree with her opinion will very often say that her expertise is absolutely beyond discussion. The problem in this file is the continuous stop-and-gopolitics we have known. We want to do it, but we don't want to do it at the same time. We are going to be very clear about this. To achieve this, we are going to ensure that there is an environment in which investment can be made. And what we want is that there are as many projects as possible that say very quickly: we want to jump in, we want to do so, and we understand that the government is very clear about its intentions. Of course, we are doing so with regard to affordability on the one hand, and this should not lead to an increase in the invoice debt and to security of supply on the other. And let me make that very clear: I am not going to accept that our industry is going to get into trouble. I am not going to accept that and there is really no one in the seven parties who would accept that our industry is in trouble. That is why we must stop sowing uncertainty. There is no reason why there would be uncertainty, except the uncertainty that some are almost deliberately creating in this dossier. Let me also talk about the Domain Work. What is good is that many of the parties that have intervened have said that they share this ambition with an 80% participation rate. If we want to maintain a high level of social security, the only way to do so is to have as many people as possible working, and it is true that when we compare our participation rate with that of other countries, for example the Netherlands, we obviously still have a long way to go. But some have said: yes, but it is not sufficiently clear how you are going to do that. Well, let me take this opportunity to point out with you in the coalition agreement how we're going to do that. But maybe we should take a step back first. If we talk about the fact that the participation rate in our country is not high enough, let's do the analysis a little bit. Where's the problem really? The problem lies in three categories: older workers, people with low levels of training and people with a migration background. Those are the three domains in which we do badly. And for that, we have taken measures. We want to ensure that older workers can continue to work and not just be pushed aside. That's why we're going to introduce the part-time pension. That's why we're gonna bet on soft runways. Then there is the discussion about people who are long-term ill: what some consider merely a problem, we also find an unlikely lack of talent. That's why we're investing extra in reintegration pathways. The activity rate of people with a migration background is dramatically low. Third- or fourth-generation people fail to find a job in our country; they come from the same excellent education we have here, they come from the same youth associations we have here, within the same social infrastructure we have here, just like all Belgians. However, we can see that the level of employment is very low. Then I think we should not be afraid of a test of discrimination. I think we should not be afraid of that, because if there is no problem, then the result of the discrimination test will not cause any problems. In my view, it is absolutely justifiable: a country like Belgium cannot afford to waste so much talent. We don't have any raw materials. Our talents are the only raw material we have, and we can't waste our talents like that. And so, fighting discrimination, that's not about ideology, that's about talent and the fact that we as a majority don't accept that talents are wasted in such a totally ridiculous way. Then I come to the last element, the third category I spoke about: people with lower levels of education. You will see that in the Work chapter there are three, four or five measures relating to training: to ensure that part of the redundancy compensation for people who are made redundant can be converted into training; to ensure that SMEs wishing to organise training courses where it is more difficult can receive a tax deduction; to ensure that the objectives are raised at sectoral level. We live in a world that's changing so fast. The VOCID crisis further accelerates this. It would not have been thought, but the transition to a digital society accelerated with the crisis. Not investing in people's talent would be the most stupid thing we could do. Too often it is said that action should be taken. This government is taking steps to finally give a real boost to people's training, and I think we really need it. The next issue that has also been raised is the institutional one. This has also become a bit of a stumbling block discussion. I've heard a lot of analyses about that. On the basis of what I have heard here, the problem for some in the institutional text actually amounts to two words, and those two words are: 'without taboos'. That's the problem. That is the problem for some people. What is the real reason why we are doing institutional work? Because we believe that our country needs to function better, because we understand that our country does not succeed in making decisions at certain times, because we see that our country has become too slow in a fast world. We say: the way to tackle this is without taboos. We'll do that with an open can. And yes, it's clear that not everyone does that with an open look, that some do that with a certain lens. And that lens, that's a lens of one-way traffic. That's wrong. Eventually, when you think about how a country, how a society should function, it is, in my view, a mistake to do so with a certain preconception. However, in one domain we make a choice: we are very clear in the field of health care. There are inconsistencies in the healthcare packages. Here we have made a choice to say very clearly: these inconsistencies, which we are going to bring closer to the patient. That is a choice we have made and it is, in my view, a choice which, not only politically, can be absolutely defended. For the rest, we make the choice of making this a broad political debate. Who could be against that? How many state reforms have been decided in dark backrooms, with legal texts, with endless discussions. Then parliamentary processes that sometimes take years. To realize that a lot of people have actually lost their way in our country. That broad social debate is essential to me. This wide-ranging social debate brings a debate that is often regarded as a very technical debate, into the streets, brings it to the point about which it should really go: how do we see our society working and how do we, as a citizen, get the most value for money? Let us be clear: our compatriots deserve more value for money. Security and Justice, I have already dealt with this in part. I'd like to make a point anyway. In the beginning someone said: there are only a certain number of rules in it, I think it was about fifteen rules. However, as I have said on another subject: what you may really need to look at is the budget table, which says that we are investing 400 million structurally in justice and police, and that is absolutely to be defended. For example, to make sure we recruit 1,600 police officers a year. If I add that up, that's about 66 million per line in the coalition agreement, which is not that bad at the end of the day. Defence has already been touched somewhat; there has actually been little response to that. I do not see why there would be any concern in the field of defence. There is a very ambitious investment plan that is confirmed, and that confirmation is essential. We have our role to play in an international world. If we want to be part of NATO and if we want to have both NATO headquarters in our country, then it is logical that we do our part of the effort. Which means that the 9.2 billion in investment will naturally be maintained by 2030 and our annual budget will evolve to 1.24% of GDP by 2024. More generally, it is explicitly stated in the coalition agreement and we make it very clear that NATO is the cornerstone of European security. And of course we can do business at European level to have more coordination. But NATO is absolutely the cornerstone. With regard to asylum and migration: I have heard some who say "asylum and migration, in this area Europe is not really the solution". I could not have a more different opinion because all the difficulties of asylum and migration come from geopolitical problems. The reasons are the civil war in Syria, an agreement that we have tried to make with Turkey that we sometimes find difficult to enforce, the lack of capacity in countries like Greece and Italy... These are the difficulties we are fundamentally facing. How are we going to solve this without further cooperation at European level? I sometimes have the impression that those who say that Europe would not be the solution are also the ones who will eventually plead for open borders. Because what are we going to do, would we then start closing the Belgian borders? Better defence of the European external borders is absolutely one of the first elements and greater cooperation between European countries is something that we are absolutely going to argue for at European level. However, I would like to be clear about the approach we are going to use, and the Secretary of State has already been able to say it in a few interviews: this is a government that will go for a correct approach in this area. A correct approach means that it is a humane and firm approach. I know that we can have all kinds of discussions about very technical measures.... since it has been said that the law will be rewritten, we will make enormous efforts to do so......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, it has already been said here: the duty of the opposition is to oppose. I don't mean that in a derogatory way. It is normal for the opposition to try to challenge the majority and push it in a certain direction. But if I have listened to the objectives in the debate, I am not sure that we are so different. I think we all agree that we want pensions to be higher. I think we all agree that at some point we need to let go of nuclear energy. I think we all agree that we want a correct and humane return policy. I also did not hear anyone say that we should get more people to work. That we are going to give people who need a push in the back, that push in the back, in that connection too, I haven't heard anyone questioning that. So the call I would like to make is: let's not feed the conflict in an artificial way, things are so complex enough. We are in a difficult situation with an economic crisis and a pandemic. I say this with my deepest conviction: we have had enough conflict in recent years. There is no further reason to seek the conflict. Some will say: conflict, it is part of politics. But frankly, it's part of politics, but in recent years it's really been overkill. Yeah, conflict is part of it, but what we've seen over the past few years is totally out of proportion. So I would call for: let us work on cooperation, and cooperation is at the heart of this government's policy. Working together instead of working against it. Build up instead of breaking down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip060x.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's meeting will take place at 3 p.m. in this Chamber. Thank you. Good night to all [[.]] The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Saturday, October 3, 2020 at 3 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Saturday, 3 October 2020 at 3 p.m.
