ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55008004C by Mrs Thémont was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I refer to the questions as tabled. They are quite technical and precise and concern quite distinct subjects, even if the subject cupola remains the ONDRAF. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u3	Finally, the CPN has already sent you a proposal to amend the 2003 Nuclear Provisions Act on February 13, 2018. How do you now intend to bring Belgian legislation into line with European obligations to ensure the sufficiency of nuclear provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u4	Minister, has ONDRAF already issued the conclusions of the last public consultation on the landfill of highly radioactive waste? If so, what are these conclusions? If not, when does ONDRAF plan to make its full report on this public consultation? Could you share this report with Parliament? What is the legal status of opinions given by both the Belgian population and the population of neighbouring countries? Could the principle of geological storage be reviewed if a majority of opinions were negative? Could ONDRAF then explore other technical options in more depth? What would then be the next step in the consultation process? Will the transboundary impacts of the geological storage project be assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u5	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, with regard to Question No 55008015C on nuclear provisions for decommissioning, I indicated to you, at our Energy Committee meeting on 15 July 2020, that the amount provided by Synatom was EUR 5,739 million in value 2019 for the dismantling of all the seven Electrabel reactors, which were included in the report of the Commission on nuclear provisions and subject to the supervision of the same committee. This provision for the dismantling of Belgian reactors is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants. In accordance with the law of 11 April 2003, the full evaluations are conducted on a three-year basis and the last one took place at the end of 2019, with the next one scheduled for the last quarter of 2022. There is no three-year evaluation exercise for provisions in 2020, either in August or September. With regard to the storage cost estimates prepared by ONDRAF, a separate topic from the estimates of decommissioning costs and the costs of downstream management of the nuclear power plant cycle – often confusion – new fees for geological storage will be established by ONDRAF by the end of 2020, thus implementing the decisions taken in 2018 in this context. Following this exercise of ONDRAF, it will then be up to the Commission for Nuclear Supplies to decide on these changes in fees and on how to implement them in nuclear power supplies. I would also like to remind you that there is a difference between costs and cost estimates on the one hand and provisions on the other. The latter are also the result of the application of financial assumptions which take account of the fact that the dismantling will be spread over several years. It is therefore difficult to compare the amounts between them. In other words, apples and pears should not be confused, namely, on the one hand, the present value of a cost which constitutes the target value of the current updated euro provision and, on the other hand, the estimate of future costs in euro not discounted in constant or current value. As far as I am concerned, I give interest only to amounts controlled by the Nuclear Supplies Commission, pursuant to the above-mentioned law. The Commission for Nuclear Supplies is also monitoring technological developments and the different feedback from Europe and the world. Although it is very difficult to compare the costs of dismantling between countries, I would like to draw your particular attention to the fact that Table 4 of the European Commission's report, which you quote, shows an average cost of around EUR 500 million per power plant in Europe, whereas in Belgium we are already, as you mention in your question, more than EUR 1 billion per nuclear power plant. This highlights the quality and seriousness of the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, which I will never cease to stress, and this confirms my confidence in the work that it is doing. So I come to the big work of the ONDRAF caisson factory. The surface storage facility consists of several buildings and installations: the wharf, the clearing road, the casing plant, the monolith production facility, the access cluster, the Tabloo communication centre and finally the final radioactive waste storage modules themselves. Each building is subject to different legal and regulatory procedures depending on its nuclear or non-nuclear nature. As far as the casing plant is concerned, it is important to remember that this building is not a nuclear installation. The construction of the steel structure in the bay of the caisson factory has recently begun, after the foundations were built at the beginning of this year, as you may know. The environmental permit for the caisson plant was issued by the Flemish authority on 23 October 2015 with an amendment to the building façade, which was established on 23 July 2018. According to the current schedule, the reception of the caisson plant is scheduled for 2021. The casing plant will produce high-quality concrete casings in which low-, medium- and short-lived waste will be packaged. These caissons form an important barrier in the containment of radioactive substances and contribute greatly to the safety of surface storage. As regards the surface storage facility itself, an environmental impact report was submitted to AFCN on 31 January 2019 to assess the impact on ionizing radiation and was also submitted to the Flemish authority on 11 October 2019, concerning regional prerogatives and competences in this dossier. The public consultations for the authorization of nuclear creation and exploitation and the regional permit were organised by the various municipalities concerned – Dessel, Mol, Geel, Retie and Kasterlee – for the authorisation of nuclear creation and exploitation. Dessel was also concerned with the regional permit. These consultations took place in December 2019 and January 2020. The observations were submitted to the organising communes, which forwarded them to the Flemish authority and AFCN. The report on environmental impacts was approved by the Flemish authority on 10 March. ONDRAF received a positive opinion from AFCN on 6 March. The Flemish authority granted the regional permit on 6 May. No action has been brought. Before the construction of the storage facility can begin, authorization for the creation and operation of nuclear reactors must be granted by the King. This procedure is still ongoing. Since the file is being processed by AFCN, ONDRAF hopes to obtain this authorization in 2022, after which the construction of the final storage facility will begin. Then, the beginning of the operation will be subject to a second Royal Order of Confirmation which, still on instructions from the AFCN, is expected in 2025. The filling of the facility should end, according to the current schedule, around 2060 – you will remember that these are very long-term procedures, which far exceed the duration of a government – after storing the total volume of 49,346 cubic metres, as stated in the ONDRAF's safety report. The safety of the concept, which provides for the use of concrete casings, has been positively assessed by the Safety Authority. This concept is a widespread practice for the surface disposal of low- and medium-level radioactive waste for short-lived use. ONDRAF is not aware of the widespread use of steel overpack. The safety report prepared by ONDRAF provides for a regulatory nuclear control phase of 350 years after the start of operation of the storage facility. During this phase, continuous monitoring of the environment will be carried out. In particular, groundwater around the storage facility will be periodically monitored to detect any dispersion of radioactive substances. The storage facility was developed by ONDRAF to facilitate any response requested by AFCN in the event of an incident. Monoliths have been developed to ensure the handling of waste for at least the duration of the regulatory nuclear control phase and thus facilitate any intervention. After this last phase, the activity of radioactive waste will have decreased to such an extent that radiological monitoring and control will no longer be required, according to estimates. The assessment of the nuclear safety of this facility does not, of course, belong to me. It is entirely the responsibility of the AFCN, which is the exclusive jurisdiction of the AFCN. I recall that the AFCN is an independent body. This assessment is still under way under the authorisation procedure I mentioned. For this I would obviously refer you to the Minister of the Interior, if you have any further questions. An area of about 11 hectares has been deforested at the Dessel site. As compensation, there is an equivalent reforestation which has been carried out on land belonging to the commune of Dessel. The full cost of storage, i.e. construction, operation and closure, is estimated at around €1,500 million in 2018. It is currently being re-evaluated. A revision of the estimate of category A final storage costs is expected in the course of 2021. I turn to the following question concerning the adaptation of the ONDRAF Act. ONDRAF shall be responsible for establishing the criteria for the acceptance of conditioned and unpackaged radioactive waste and the specifications for the exemption of radioactive waste and, where appropriate, the criteria for the acceptance of any surplus substances or quantities to be taken over in the course of its mission. These criteria must in turn be based on general rules which must be approved on a proposal from ONDRAF by the competent authorities. In the current legislation, there is legal uncertainty as to the authority actually competent to lay down the general rules mentioned above. The purpose of the draft law is therefore to remedy this situation and it is for the King to establish the general rules on which the acceptance criteria are based. The power to lay down general rules for the elaboration of acceptance criteria, it is necessary to know, is expressly entrusted to the King in view of the regulatory nature of these general rules. It's a new story, but it explains the reason. Following this preliminary draft, the AFCN would have the authority to issue a preliminary opinion on the proposal made by ONDRAF. This opinion would be binding on ONDRAF and would be forwarded to the King at the same time as the proposal for general rules. The competence to establish, on the basis of the above-mentioned general rules, the criteria for acceptance of radioactive waste whether or not packaged and, where appropriate, surplus substances or quantities continues to rest with ONDRAF. The AFCN would verify on a purely formal basis the correspondence between the acceptance criteria and the general rules. This control is the subject of a separate bill to amend the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation and relating to the AFCN. The draft legislation for the relevant AFCN liability party – which is what you are referring to in your question – also requires the AFCN to provide information to ONDRAF in the event that the Agency establishes on the ground that radioactive waste and, where appropriate, the surplus substances or quantities of a given operator do not meet or exceed the acceptance criteria in force. The draft law will create the legal basis for formalizing by royal decree the general rules for the development of acceptance criteria, thus giving legal anchor to acceptance criteria for all stages of waste management until they are stored. This will strengthen the binding nature of the acceptance criteria up to and including storage. The draft law will also require producers of radioactive waste to take all necessary measures to ensure that their waste, if any, its surplus substances or quantities meet the acceptance criteria throughout the management of the waste and those substances and/or excess quantities. Some analytical questions remain, however, in particular as to the usefulness or added value of a multi-level system – on general rules, on acceptance criteria in parallel with authorisations, etc. The scope, scope and scope of acceptance of the various instruments overlap, which may create some confusion. In my view, it is therefore necessary to define concepts better, to understand and to motivate their usefulness, taking into account their historical reason. For example, the concept of general rules already exists in the Royal Decree of 16 October 1991 amending the Royal Decree ONDRAF of 30 March 1981, so almost 30 years ago. Account shall also be taken of developments in the context, in particular the forthcoming authorisation of final storage facilities and the development of international guidelines on acceptance criteria in relation to such temporary storage and final storage facilities for radioactive waste. If necessary, this could be simplified. The principle is not to make administrative matters administrative, but to have, you will agree, a system that ensures safety, clear division of responsibilities and effective management by the various actors of the State, of course with a view to the general interest. As this bill could not be dealt with by this government, it will be up to the next government to continue work on this matter. I now turn to your question No 55008765C on the re-evaluation of nuclear supplies. For the part of your question concerning the assessment of provisions, I refer to your question No 55008015C and my answer to it. However, I would like to take this opportunity – particularly in the light of the experience gained in recent years – to stress the importance of improving and strengthening the instruments and means available to the State to ensure – I will never say enough – the control of provisions, both through the Nuclear Supplies Commission and through the "Golden Share" mechanism and the presence of government representatives on the Synatom Board of Directors. The Belgian State must have effective means of control and must avoid a dilution of responsibilities or control which is exercised through this Golden share or by the Commission des réservations nucléaires in case of delegation of missions, activities or filialisation. It is also necessary to avoid dilution in the drawing up of opinions, which must be drawn up in a reasoned and detailed manner by the Commission for Nuclear Supplies. Various measures must therefore be conceived, conceptualised and introduced into the new legislation in order to achieve effective control and avoid diluting responsibilities. These are ways of effectively preserving the general interest in nuclear power supplies, so that the polluter pays principle can be guaranteed and no cents paid by the citizen and the consumer for the dismantling of power plants and the management of radioactive waste. It is also necessary for the Belgian State to issue its guidelines through this legislation and to make known what these guidelines are and what objectives it wants to ensure in terms of the adequacy of the provisions. As you already know, I am in favour of strengthening the legal framework of the Nuclear Supplies Act, since I have introduced a bill that deals with this issue. I had it dropped before the election, and maybe it was re-tabled. I don't remember anymore, you have to check, in the run-off of your work since you were established after the May 2019 elections and you started your work as a parliamentarian. I am speaking also to you, Mr. Cogolati. It is my responsibility that the Commission on Nuclear Supplies continues its work of reflection and is also working on a new package of improvements to the law, which takes into account various proposals for amendments submitted to the government that have already been worked on in the past. All this makes an intellectual package of concepts, which must be taken to arms and to work. I can therefore only advise the next government to take up this matter as soon as possible, which I believe is a priority in the context of the gradual exit from industrial electricity production in Belgium by fission of nuclear fuel. I turn to question no. 55008766C concerning public consultation on the ONDRAF project on the management of highly radioactive waste. The analysis by ONDRAF of the results of this public consultation is still under way and the conclusions of this analysis are therefore not yet published. Once this analysis has been carried out, taking into account the provisions of the Act of 13 February 2006 which you are familiar with, ONDRAF will draw up a new proposal for a national policy for the long-term management of high-level radioactive waste and/or long-lived radioactive waste. The full and final report, together with the results of the consultation, will be prepared in accordance with article 16 of the above-mentioned Act of 13 February 2006, which provides for the obligation to prepare a proposal for a declaration summarizing how environmental considerations have been incorporated into the plan, how the environmental impact report and consultations have been taken into account, as well as the reasons for choosing the plan as adopted, taking into account the other reasonable options considered, and specifying the main measures for monitoring the significant environmental impacts of the implementation of the plan or programme. In accordance with the 2006 law, this declaration will be published in the Belgian Monitor at the time of the adoption of the national policy, i.e. at the time of the publication of the Royal Decree. The results of the observations and opinions expressed during the public consultation and the report on environmental impacts will be taken into account in accordance with the provisions of the above-mentioned Act of 13 February 2006, in particular Article 15 thereof, and, from a legal point of view, these opinions rendered by both the Belgian population and the population of neighbouring countries are not binding, I would remind you. However, they are the subject of an in-depth analysis, the results of which will be repeated and must be reflected in the statement referred to in the previous question. As far as opinions from abroad are concerned, since the ONDRAF considers that there is no need for cross-border consultation at this stage – we have discussed it many times before, you will remember – as agreed by the SEA Opinion Committee set up by the Act of 13 February 2006, it is not in principle mandatory to take them into account at this stage. However, the ONDRAF has, at my request, also done the analysis. This does not alter the ONDRAF's view that it is neither necessary nor appropriate to organise a consultation beyond Belgian territory, in accordance with the provisions of the same law. It is a repetition that aims to clarify things completely but you will have fully understood that we are trying to have as much information as possible and that we are analysing what we have, going beyond what is mandatory. "Who can most, can least!" and vice versa. This new proposal for a national policy is expected to be forwarded to the tutelage soon. It will therefore be up to the next government to set national policy in accordance with the requirements of Article 179(6) of the Law of 8 August 1980 and to comply with Belgian and European legal provisions and the infringement procedure of the European Union, thus providing a definitive long-term management solution for high-level radioactive waste and/or long-term radioactive waste. In carrying out its tasks, ONDRAF will continue to examine all possible options throughout the process of adopting national policy, which is supposed to take place over several decades. I'm done with this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u6	I assure you, Madam Minister. It's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u7	I thought there was still one. I am therefore reassured and thank you for being able to make a comprehensive package with all these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u8	Minister, thank you for the time you have taken to go through the five answers on these five distinct topics. I would like to be able to bounce back on the last issue that is important since the consultation took place just a few months ago. You said that the opinions of the Regions and the population were not binding, that consulting our neighbouring countries was not mandatory in itself, and that finally, on a strictly legal and formal level, in your opinion, it was not mandatory either...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u9	Not in my opinion! According to the ONDRAF and the SEA opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u10	All right. According to the ONDRAF. You say that this does not alter the opinion of the ONDRAF, but does that mean that the ONDRAF, in its new national policy proposal, will comply with the cost of landfilling? Indeed, that is what we are talking about, the underground storage several hundred meters away from this highly radioactive waste. Or will the ONDRAF hear the views expressed by the three Regions? It's quite exceptional. The three Regions agree on this point. A certain majority of the population clearly say no to burial. The same applies to the views expressed by the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and by some Länder in Germany. The question is simple. Does that really mean that even if the consultation proves to be extremely negative, so in opposition to the landfill option, the ONDRAF will still retain this option?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u11	Mr Cogolati, I cannot answer for ONDRAF and I do not know the future. When I said that the ONDRAF did not change its point of view, it was specifically and exclusively about whether it was necessary or appropriate to organise a consultation beyond Belgian territory. Therefore, ONDRAF does not change its view that it should not be done, but that does not prejudge substantive issues and, of course, ONDRAF is the only competent and empowered to answer this question. We have to wait. We'll have the answer soon. I cannot intervene in this process. I am waiting for you, and I am not aware of the analysis that will be made of all the returns made in the course of this survey by all the citizens of Belgium and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand your answer. Fortunately, it is common sense that we should be able to listen to the views of the citizens who expressed themselves, during this period of crisis in addition, on this extremely sensitive issue. It will be a matter of choosing the worst of technical solutions. If I may, I would like to go back, as a reply, to the sensitive and difficult subject of nuclear supplies. I heard you on the cost estimate. I compare the cost of nuclear power plants that have already been dismantled. The cost expertise and experience of those who did so are available. Looking at what happened in Germany, Switzerland and Britain, we can see that the costs are three to nine times higher than the estimated costs in Belgium in a theoretical way. I therefore believe that it is really necessary not to limit itself to marginal control of the estimates made by Synatom, but to be able to benefit from an independent technical counter-expertise organised by the Belgian State, to ensure that the provisions will be sufficient to cover all the costs of dismantling when the time comes. The time is really coming, as we are already talking about the shutdown of several reactors by 2023. I think it's very important. Of course, I make the distinction with the updating of the current provisions. But with an interest rate as low as it is today, I do not think we will be able to count on much larger provisions than those currently estimated. Finally, I come to the control of the Belgian State. I'll meet you. This is in fact the opinion of the CPN. It is now crucial to move from speech to action. Finally, this cry and alarm bell fired by the CNP have resonated for several years anyway. It is important that policies take their responsibilities and finally, once and for all, secure these extremely important funds. We are talking about billions of euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I would like to refer to the special financing law and the climate response mechanism contained in it, which provided for a multi-annual route for each region. This section sets out the targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Each region was given such a route. The routes for the period 2015-2030 were established through the Finance Act, but may be modified by a KB consulted in the Ministerial Council on the basis of agreement from the regions and on the basis of a proposal from the National Climate Commission. No alternative projects have yet been submitted. In principle, therefore, the routes laid down in the Finance Act five years ago apply. The case is actually a bit blocked. The bonus-malus system has not yet entered into force. Only the regional emission figures for 2015 for the building sector and the average price for an emission allowance have already been officially validated by the National Climate Commission. Because Flanders is doing better than the agreed targets in the building sector, the Flemish Climate Fund should have received around 25 million euros. That's a cumulative estimate from the Court of Auditors. Because the mechanism is blocked, this is not happening. However, the cooperation agreement between the federal state and the regions on the distribution of those climate and energy objectives was already approved in May 2018. Do you confirm that the climate response mechanism with the bonus-malus system, as laid down in the Special Financing Act, is de facto not implemented? Is it true that this has to do with differences of interpretation on the reduction pathways? Is it true that there is still a discussion within the National Climate Commission on the definition and scope of the multi-annual routes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u14	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the implementation of the climate response mechanism, in accordance with the special law and the ordinary law laying down its implementing rules, requires a number of steps to be followed. An essential step for each transaction is the payment of a bonus to the regions, the reduction of the malus or the donations to the regions, the approval of the difference between the annual greenhouse gas emissions from the buildings sector in each region and the objective set by the multi-annual routes set out in the law. These differences should be established by royal decree on a proposal from the National Climate Commission (NKC). To date, the NKC only took note of the 2015 emission data for the building sector extracted from the regional greenhouse gas inventory at a meeting on 6 December 2017. However, it did not approve the differences in relation to the routes, since the members of the NKC wanted to discuss in advance a possible revision of the routes 2015-2020 and 2021-2024, and the modalities of application of the law, in the light of the legal opinions of the federal administrations and the administrations of the regions that were the subject of a summary note from the Federal Planning Bureau. The members of the NKC decided that this discussion between the four parties would be conducted by means of an inter-kabinet consultation. The NKC last discussed this issue at the meeting of 21 February 2018, after which it was decided that the Presidency, which was held by the Flemish Region in 2018, would take the initiative for a new consultation with a view to taking a decision on the modalities of the implementation of the mechanism. The issue has since remained untreated and the NKC has not taken any initiative on this matter. In the absence of approval of the differences between the routes by the NKC, the climate-response mechanism is de facto not applied. It should also be noted that the time limits laid down in the Law for the modification of routes 2015-2020 and 2021-2024 have now been exceeded and that the standard routes laid down in the Special Law are therefore applicable. Finally, the special law explicitly states that the response mechanism should be subject to a legislative review in the course of 2020. The modalities of this legislative evaluation still need to be determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u15	Madam Secretary, your comprehensive answer is staggeringly enlightening, I would say. It actually indicates that the climate response mechanism is not being implemented at all, and that is a problem. You are talking about a legislative evaluation that should also be made. I think that the next government, when the special financing law in the coalition agreement, I hope, will be dealt with, will still have a good deal to do with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u16	Minister, I'm glad you're back in good health. At the beginning of August, the inhabitants of the towns surrounding the industrial zoning of Feluy and Seneffe – where I live – were particularly bothered by sulfur odours. It took eight hours for the communes of Écaussines and Seneffe as well as the firefighters to finally realize that these smells came from the Afton plant, which was classified as Seveso. No alerts had been issued by the company. In addition, firefighters were overwhelmed by calls from citizens worried about these extremely strong smells. Madam Minister, I regret that, under the previous legislature, it was decided to remove Seveso sirens in industrial zonings. In this case, people could still have been advised to close their windows. However, the company decided, on its own initiative, that the gases were not dangerous and therefore did not warn anyone. The SMS system put in place by BE-Alert did not work since the company considered it to be an internal event. Madam Minister, would it not be wise and respectful for our fellow citizens to reconsider the decision to abolish the warning sirens? That would be worth thinking about. Then, and this is probably the most important point for the Minister of the Environment that you are, are you considering making it mandatory – and not just voluntary – to set up joint committees between factories and residents? Indeed, when the aldermen complain about the behaviour of certain industrialists, the answer is systematically: "Since it is like this, we leave; our presence is not obligatory." That is why, Madam Minister, I urge you to make these consultation committees mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vicar, I am also pleased to find you and all the people who attend this meeting in good health. I fully agree with you; but the problem is that I am limited by skills, as you can imagine. Indeed, environmental permits, which are the instruments that allow public authorities to impose stricter conditions on a company, are, as you may know, a matter for the Regions. In this case, this commune, which you live in, and which I know well, since it is Hainaut, falls within the competence of Minister Tellier, who is your political party. I would therefore urge you to raise awareness of the matter. I will do it myself when I meet her, since we are obviously in charge of environmental matters, she and I. The Seveso Industrial Accidents Directive has been – you may not know – partially transposed into federal jurisdiction, though. This is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, because it is security. Seveso competencies must therefore be the heart of questions to ask my colleague Minister De Crem. As far as environmental permits are concerned, you know that it is the regional minister who is competent. I urge you to redirect your questions to each other. I will question them when I see them on these issues, to which I am very sensitive, since I myself have had scabinal responsibilities in my city, and we have some Seveso companies in Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u18	Minister, I will ask the regional ministers the questions. But I spoke to you because I think that the consultation committees are a federal tax. I ask you that these consultation committees be compulsory and not optional.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u19	I'm going to look, see what's really going on, and I'll answer you later on. I'm not convinced, but it's possible, anyway, I'll get the message out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u21	Minister, among the many consequences of the VOCID-19 pandemic, increasing energy insecurity is certainly one of the most unjust, as it affects an already very fragile public. Since the beginning of the health crisis, many actors have been warning about this. At the beginning of August, the Belgian Federation of Electric and Gas Companies (FEBEG) in turn expressed concern at the sharp increase in demand for lower down payment bills and payment plans. The former, for example, more than doubled compared to February. By the way, it would seem that this poses a significant financial risk to the sector. Last April, the King Baudouin Foundation published the sixth edition of its barometer on energy insecurity. This barometer shows that in 2018, the problem of energy insecurity affected 20.8 per cent of households, a figure that has remained stable since 2009. We were at the beginning of the confinement and, already, the Foundation was warning about the long-term effects of the crisis, saying that the number of households having difficulty paying their bills could increase once the critical period passed. The findings of the FEBEG validate the premonition of the King Baudouin Foundation. The latter had also accompanied his study by a series of recommendations, some of which were directed to the federal government. These included the end of the freeze on the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund – a subject that this commission successfully seized during the last session – or the creation of a single entry portal common to the comparators of the four Belgian regulators. Minister, do your services have figures to object to the problem of energy insecurity as it currently stands? How do you respond to the growing concerns of social actors on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u22	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Member of Parliament, as you know, the federal government has taken many steps in favour of the most disadvantaged. Most of these measures have been monitored by your committee, since they were adopted during the health crisis. One of these measures is the payment of a flat-rate temporary premium of EUR 50 per month per beneficiary of integration income or social assistance equivalent to integration income for the period from July to December 2020. The Council of Ministers also approved, in July, a grant of EUR 110 million for supplementary social assistance for the target audiences of CPAS in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis. This is an additional aid to the first amount of EUR 15 million released last May. The EUR 125 million is earmarked for 115 million to grant various aid to people who can no longer meet their expenses due to the crisis in VOCID-19, with the remaining EUR 10 million to cover the operating and personnel costs of CPAS. The SPP Social integration in charge of the repayment of this measure paid a deposit equal to 75 % of the total amount due. In addition to the aid, the indexed amounts of the Gas and Electricity Fund for the years 2019 and 2020 represent an additional amount of EUR 12,520,447. These rapid and concrete responses from the federal government directly helped people in precarious situations. Here is the answer we have prepared. I can't tell you any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u23	Madam Minister, we will certainly have to go further on this subject, because this problem is likely to get worse with this health crisis; there is unanimous agreement on this. A few figures by way of reply: more than 14% of households pay too much energy for them. More than 4% of households spend an abnormally low share of their disposable income on energy and are therefore potentially in a situation of restriction in relation to their basic needs. This is called hidden energy insecurity. Five per cent of households are concerned that they may not be able to heat themselves properly. Isolated persons and single-parent families are the most vulnerable types of household to this type of precariousness, with 32 per cent of single-parent families and 35 per cent of single-parent families in energy poverty, compared with just under 10 per cent of couples with children. Of course, in this type of household, women are overrepresented, as 80% of single-parent families are "conducted" by women. Older people are also often forgotten, they are part of it. The average age of 65 and over is lower than that of single men in the same age group. This problem potentially affects a large part of the population that will need to be addressed. I hope that the next government will do so and that Parliament will pay attention to this serious problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u24	Minister, as you know, the Amazon is once again the prey of the flames. The satellites of the Brazilian National Institute for Space Research (INPE) recorded 29,307 fires between 1 and 31 August. It was in this context that a coalition of NGOs and research institutes published on 1 September a study on the role of banking in tropical deforestation. The authors analysed the services provided to more than 300 companies whose activities are detrimental to the forests of South-East Asia, West and Central Africa, and Brazil. Globally, $154 billion in loans was granted and $37 billion invested in these companies. It is in Brazil that the observation is the most obvious. Cattle farming, responsible for 80% of deforestation in the Amazon, is the main beneficiary. However, the European banks are not left behind. Rabbobank, Santander and BNP Paribas are thus pointed out by this NGO collective. Since the signing of the Paris Agreement, which makes the preservation of our green lungs a high priority, the situation has even worsened, since the amount of appropriations for these three areas has increased by 40% between 2016 and 2020. In Belgium, the data collected indicate that KBC has allocated $2 million for soybean plantations in Brazil and Degroof Petercam $1 million for pulp production. But it is mainly in South-East Asia, and in the palm oil sector that Belgian finance stands out with a total investment of 119 million dollars, of which 83 for Nokia Bell Pensioenfonds alone, and credit grants for 49 million, of which 39 came from KBC. Minister, have you read this report? What analysis do you make of it? Will you contact the Belgian institutions mentioned in this report or have you had contact with them? How can they be made aware of the absolute need to turn their backs on these financial habits? Have you discussed this with your European counterparts? What initiatives can Belgium take at this level? How can this issue be integrated into the Green Deal for Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u25	Mr Ben Achour, in answer to your first question, Belgium does not have a formal mechanism for tracing products imported from Brazil. A research project called Trase (Transparent Supply Chain for Sustainable Economies) aims to map as precisely as possible the source of certain high-risk deforestation products. This project has data for Belgium and we have asked UCL, Trase's partner, to help us analyse them. For Brazilian soybeans, the data cover the period 2003-2017 with an annual temporary resolution. They report imports of soybeans from Brazil to Belgium and the Netherlands amounting to more than 92 million tonnes, in total, over this period, of which at least 66% came from threatened biomes from the Amazon and Cerrado, also taking into account a proportion of about 17% of unknown origin. During this period, soybean imports were associated with a risk of deforestation for approximately 149,000 hectares, the majority of which, or about 75 per cent, were located in the Cerrado biome. On your second and third questions, since September 2019, an informal network of experts from the FPS Foreign Affairs, the FPS Economy, the FPS Public Health and the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development have identified a series of opportunities that would allow concrete progress on the sustainability of food import chains and in particular on the fight against imported deforestation. A draft note brings together a set of recommendations covering both regulatory and non-regulatory measures, namely the criteria for public procurement, as well as on strengthening traceability data, taxation, diplomatic dialogue, development cooperation, public-private partnerships and others. The Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development, meeting in plenary on 26 March 2020, decided to include the finalization of this note in its Working Group on Social Responsibility before its transmission to the government this autumn. Moreover, the European Union has recently announced strong ambitions to combat imported deforestation. On 23 July 2019, the Commission published a communication entitled "Strengthening the European Union's action to protect and restore the world's forests". A network of federal and regional experts has been established within the framework of the International Environmental Policy Coordination Committee to follow up on this communication. On 16 December 2019, the Council adopted conclusions in response to this communication. These conclusions call on the Commission to carry out a feasibility analysis of a series of measures, including due diligence and public procurement measures. On 20 May the Commission adopted its biodiversity strategy. She announced that in 2021 a new initiative on sustainable corporate governance would be presented. This initiative, which will take the form of a legislative proposal, will address issues of human rights, environmental due diligence and due diligence in economic value chains in a proportionate and size-specific manner. Belgium will, of course, support this initiative and ensure that the fight against deforestation is properly integrated. In response to your fourth and final question, I can answer that the roadmap has been submitted for public consultation. It is now closed. For the moment, a new public consultation is open until 10 December 2020 to assess the relevance of potential measures that could be taken on the demand side of products imported into the Union to ensure that they have not contributed to deforestation. Finally, for more information on the current procedure, my collaborator will send you the link that will allow you to access this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u26	Minister, thank you for these answers. It is difficult to mention the issue of deforestation and the major risk that this phenomenon poses to the planet without thinking about the Mercosur agreement that is advancing at European level, despite the positioning of some Member States. In this regard, I still find it difficult to believe that all the networks of experts can be set up and all the measures that can be imagined to protect themselves from the risk of deforestation, while at the same time making progress towards the signing of this Mercosur agreement. In this regard, it will not have escaped us that the newspaper Le Monde had access to the conclusions of a report sponsored by Édouard Philippe, former Prime Minister of the French Republic. The report considers that the Mercosur Free Trade Agreement represents a "missed opportunity". The expression is cited in the report. The authors' hypothesis is that the annual deforestation of 5 per cent over the six years following the establishment or implementation of the agreement, i.e. 700,000 ha. Based on the assumption that the environmental cost should be measured from the additional CO2 emissions at a unit cost of $250 per tonne, the document concludes that the cost will be higher than the expected economic benefits. Therefore, the environmental cost of $250 per tonne will be higher than the expected economic benefits of this free trade agreement. The experts mainly base their reasoning and calculations on deforestation caused by the creation of pastures to increase beef production in the Mercosur countries, an increase that would be encouraged by this free trade agreement, since this beef production activity is often the first step in deforestation before giving way to agricultural crops. You see, Madam Minister, that we are returning to this famous agreement on which we are going to have to be particularly vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, this is not the first time that my colleague Barbara Creemers and I have asked you about this. As you know, in accordance with the new Royal Decree of May 2019, the four federations introduced a five-year recognition procedure and were waiting for a response by May 16. I don't know if the situation has been cleared up recently. By September 1st, the federations are expected to submit their request for funding for 2020, which is already well advanced. Without recognition by that date, the federations will have suffered a further loss of subsidies for this year and will have found themselves in a situation of administrative insecurity. In our previous discussions, you explained to us that you could not make the decision on their five-year recognition as you are a member of a government in day-to-day business. According to you, the question of recognition would de facto involve a five-year financial commitment that only a full-year government could take. Minister, given the situation, have you been able to extend the deadline for applications for funding beyond September 1? Can you develop further the legal arguments that lead you to consider that the question of recognition of these cupolas necessarily involves a financial commitment for the government? Indeed, I find it difficult to understand why the two aspects are linked when they are two separate procedures: the request for recognition on the one hand and the request for subsidies on the other. Beyond this question, in the face of the deadlock experienced by these four cupolas, what solutions have you been able to present to them that respect both the limits of your powers as a member of a government in day-to-day affairs and the need to ensure the survival of these four cupolas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u28	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, I understand that you are asking the question on a regular basis, as well as that I understand the concern of the representatives of these cupolas, who have all come to ask me personally at my office, or that I have met again at one or the other event. However, as I have said on several occasions, the situation has unfortunately not changed. It is no longer my day-to-day government in which I am involved that it is up to us to engage the future government, which I hope will come soon. Indeed, the decision to be taken will have a budgetary impact. Although you feel that the two aspects are distinct, in reality one does not go without the other: recognition is ipso facto having significant budgetary consequences, ranging from 400 000 to 1 million euros for a period of five years. For this reason, I cannot, in view of the budgetary technique – that is to say, the consequence of recognition – separate one from the other as if nothing were happening and engage the finances in a current business context, when this is a jurisdiction that is exclusively the responsibility of a full-function government. Fortunately, this full-function government should come into being soon. I therefore ask you to show some patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u29	Minister, this is probably our last inquiry on this point. Unfortunately, I must repeat that we do not share your legal analysis. Of course, you have a competent cabinet for this purpose, but, as a Member of Parliament, I am also at stake for development non-governmental organizations (NGOs) funded by the federal government. These NGOs have no difficulty in obtaining five-year recognition. It is clear that five-year recognition and the promise of subsidies are two different aspects. The lawyers consulted on this file do not make the direct link that you continue to establish between recognition and funding. On the other hand, I would have hoped, from the time when the deadline of 1 September had passed, that an administrative solution or perspective had been given to the federations. We can understand the embarrassment in which they find themselves in the absence of perspective. I am therefore somewhat disappointed that your teams did not send them a concrete proposal, even if they had to postulate this proposal if the formation of the government was difficult to achieve. I hope, however, that this will not be the case. Finally, I really think that this blockage is not a good signal. Everyone agrees that the collapse of ecosystems and climate change are the greatest challenges facing humanity, and we cannot, at Belgian level, grant the necessary recognition to platforms that fight day-to-day for the defence of our climate and our environment. I sincerely deplore this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u30	Mr President, this question is very similar to the question put by Mr. Ben Achour. Minister, in early July, the NGO WWF reported that a cargo ship, the Pacific South, from Brazil, had landed in Amsterdam. On board this vessel was a large shipment of Brazilian soybean destined for the European Union market. According to a study by the same NGO on the weight of Belgium in global deforestation through its imports and consumption of agricultural and forestry products, Belgium imports an average of 2.5 million tonnes of soybeans per year. Of these, 64 per cent come from land at high risk of deforestation - mainly in Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay. For the record, forests are home to 80 per cent of the global terrestrial biodiversity. Deforestation and land-use change account for 12 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions. The link between biodiversity protection and the fight against climate change is clearly expressed here. Amnesty International Belgium warns about beef imported via JBS, a multinational based in Brazil, the world's largest beef producer. Amnesty found that cattle illegally raised in protected areas had entered the multinational supply chain. According to the Attorney General of Brazil: "Today no company buying in the Amazon can claim that its supply chain does not contain livestock from deforestation." Minister, are we capable of effectively tracing products imported into Belgium from Brazil and the Amazon in general? Can we tell what share of Brazilian imports into Belgium is suspected of participating in the deforestation of the Amazon? What means of reducing the environmental impact of imported products are you considering? Have you been able to move forward on a national strategy to combat imported deforestation? The European Commission has launched a public consultation on deforestation and forest destruction, called Reducing the Impact of Products Sold in the European Union. Were you able to follow the process of this consultation? What's the status? I realize you've already answered a lot, see how you want to go as fast as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u31	Mr President, I have already answered a lot. Dear colleague, I refer you to what I said to Mr. Ben Achour. I would simply say, in order to give Belgium's point of view and to make my proposals even more precise, that Belgium, for about a year now, has been participating as an observer in the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership meetings, the aim of which is to combat deforestation linked to the importation of several commodities, in particular soybeans. In preparation for Belgium's voluntary commitment to COP15 of the Convention on Biological Biodiversity, discussions are under way on the integration and participation of the financial sector in these commitments. The aim of such participation is to involve the sector in Belgium and its portfolio in the protection and preservation of biodiversity in Belgium and abroad. My administration is also part of the task force chaired by the SPF Finances within this framework and bringing together all Belgian actors. This was more of a response to Mr. Ben Achour. In the answer, you were grouped together. So I can send you both the complete answer so that you can take back the elements that interest you in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u32	The questions were not identified as joint questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u33	My administration has given me a common answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u34	That's perfect! Mr. Ben Achour had stressed the risks associated with free trade agreements with Mercosur. It seems to me that there are a lot of things going on: the COP on biodiversity is approaching, reflections at European level... I'm afraid it's 15 years late, but maybe it's never too late to start. However, the messages must be clear. With regard to the principle of due diligence: it is really time for Europe and Belgium to lead to the mechanisms of control of the entire supply and production chain of companies. There is also a need to move forward on sanctions mechanisms. I do not think it is acceptable today for private companies to remain so uncontrollable in their way of doing business and thus undermine our health and even our future on this planet. It is urgent that we find mechanisms to control the financial and economic systems. Thank you for sending us the full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u35	Madam Minister, last week Mrs von der Leyen set out the path in her State of the Union for a complete transformation of our way of life, working and living. Our committee chairman has already questioned the Prime Minister in plenary. However, I would like to zoom in a little bit more on the procedure. You know that a European climate law was proposed at the beginning of March 2020. Twelve Member States asked for an impact analysis to be published as soon as possible, by June 2020 at the latest, so that the debate on raising the 2030 targets could start as soon as possible and the EU could decide on the increased European level of ambition. There were also questions to clarify the delegated acts. For this purpose, the opinion of the European Council's Legal Service is considered useful. Belgium has also asked why these delegated acts would be necessary in the future. You are aware of the problem, Madam Secretary. Emissions should be reduced by 55% by 2030 instead of 40%. The Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan recorded a reduction of 35%. At the level of the Flemish Region, only 35% reduction is sought. However, Belgian emissions should now be halved by 2030 in order to reach the new European figure. I have the following questions. Firstly, what work has been done on the European climate law within the International Environment Policy Coordination Committee in the last five months? Secondly, has the European Commission and the legal service of the European Council already clarified the issue of delegated acts in the context of the European climate law? Is there a definitive Belgian position on this? Thirdly, what does the European Commission's new proposal for a 55% reduction in emissions for the Belgian NEKP mean? What are the procedures for the next few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 16 September the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, delivered her speech on the state of the Union, in which she outlined her priorities for the future. These include the environment and climate through the Green Pact for Europe. The President of the Commission has proposed to reduce EU greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, against a current target of minus 40%. The objective is part of the broader plan to make Europe the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050. In this spirit, the €750 billion European Recovery Plan agreed by the Member States in July to break out of the VOCID-19 crisis will be financed by 30% green bonds. On the other hand, our fellow MEPs in the Environment Committee have recently called for the inclusion of a 2030 target of less than 60% in the European climate law, while the main environmental organisations argue that a scientific reduction of at least 65% is needed in order to have a chance of complying with the Paris Agreement. In the meantime, however, the European Union continues to have more ambitious targets, while Belgium, for its part, is limited to a target of 35% by 2030, compared to 2005. Minister, what is your analysis of the new ambitions of the European Commission to reduce EU greenhouse gas emissions? Do you intend to review Belgium's climate objectives? If so, how do you intend to do this? Is an inter-federal dialogue already planned on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u37	Madam Minister, as has already been said, Ursula von der Leyen has paid a great deal of attention to the climate in her State of the Union. I think that is a very good signal in itself. It would have been very easy at these times to talk only about the effects of the corona epidemic and about the economic consequences associated with it. It does not lose sight of the important policy focus in my view, the climate. When we talk about flatting the curve, this applies not only to corona but certainly also to the climate. Colleagues have already referred to her statements. They dealt with the increase in the percentage and also with the green bonds, which Germany states will be making full use of. One third of the planned aid will run through these bonds. When I heard those statements, I was wondering how you think our country should respond to them? Are we ready to go along with this policy? What do you think are the main concerns for Belgian climate policy in the coming months and years to join in this increased European level of ambition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 16 September, during her speech on the state of the Union, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, announced the Commission's willingness to raise the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to at least 55% by 2030. I would remind you, even if it has already been said, that the initial target was 40%. The President of the Commission stressed that this new objective was both ambitious, achievable and beneficial for Europe. Indeed, the European Commission has commissioned an impact assessment which shows that European industry will be able to achieve the increased ambitions in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Mrs von der Leyen is determined when it comes to fighting global warming and advancing the Green Pact for Europe launched by the European Commission in December 2019. Minister, the goal is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, which is one of the cornerstones of the European Green Pact. So how does our country welcome this increase in European ambitions? A study detailed the economic impacts and regulatory measures envisaged under the European Climate Act. Have the various States of the European Union been involved in this study and in the reflection on the subject? The target of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030 is a target validated by the European Parliament. Has a study been carried out on the impact of this reduction in Belgium? If so, what does it show? Is this goal achievable for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u39	Mr President, I shall first give an answer in Dutch. Gentlemen Ravyts and Verduyckt, the work on the European climate law continues unabated. While meetings at European level have been somewhat hampered by the health crisis, meetings of the Council of the European Union's Environment Working Group are being organised on a regular basis by digital means. These meetings are prepared by the experts of the Belgian CCIM. A proposal of Belgian position was also prepared, which was discussed at an ad hoc DGE meeting in the Foreign Affairs Council. During this meeting a Belgian position was established for a number of elements. With regard to the question of delegated acts, many questions were, of course, put to the Commission during the European discussions for clarification. It is now clear that there have been many misunderstandings on this issue. It was not the intention of the Commission to define formal European objectives by means of these delegated acts. They were only intended to be used to define a trajectory, not to formally define objectives, but as a tool to evaluate progress. Moreover, the Council's legal service made it clear that the definition of formal objectives through delegated acts is not legally possible, because delegated acts can only be used for non-essential elements and because the adoption of formal objectives is a prime political exercise and thus belongs to the co-legislators, in particular the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. The question of delegated acts seems to be out of date, as the German Presidency has now published a first compromise proposal which no longer envisages adopting the route through delegated acts. Finally, it is clear that the review of the European targets for 2030 will be translated into sectoral targets, in particular the ETS and non-ETS targets. The Commission has announced that it will make proposals next year to review, inter alia, the ETS Directive and the Efficiency Sharing Regulation on the basis of the revised 2030 targets. It can be expected that at least part of the envisaged efforts will be undertaken within non-ETS, which would logically imply an increase in the Member State's targets. However, this does not have to create an additional practical problem for the preparation of national energy and climate plans, since the European legislation "Governance of the Energy Union Regulation' provides for an update of national energy and climate plans by 30 June 2024, in which these new objectives can thus be taken into account. This update is also in line with the ambition mechanism set out in the Paris Agreement, which will re-examine the global level of ambition and should lead to a possible new revision of the Nationally Determined Contributions. The fact that a NEKP, together with the recommendations of the European Semester and the Territorial Just Transition Plans, guides the receipt of the funds from the European Recovery Plan Next Generation EU is also an important signal for Belgium to further concreteise and strengthen its NEKP where necessary and accelerate the implementation of the measures already taken. Mrs Hanus and Mr Bombled, I am pleased that the European Commission has published its communication Stepping up Europe's 2030 Climate Ambition, in which it proposes to increase the level of ambition. In this communication, the Commission also puts forward ideas in relation to the general architecture of European climate policy. My services are in the process of analysing in depth the Commission's proposals and recommendations, in order to feed the Belgian position on all these issues, which will be very decisive in the coming weeks and years. Compared to the level of ambition for 2030, I hope that we can quickly reach agreement at Belgian and European level so that we can update the determined contribution at national level. This is a European standard which must be determined before the end of this year, as foreseen in the Paris Agreement. I am pleased to note that the level of ambition that the Commission proposes, at least 55% reduction in greenhouse gases in 2030 compared to 1990, is precisely the level on which this House, your House, voted in its resolution of 20 December 2018 on the repositioning of Belgium in the climate debate. As I said at the meeting of this committee on 15 April, the federal government defends this Belgian position in discussions with the federated entities. The Brussels and Walloon governments share this ambition and have taken it up in their respective government agreements. Several of our neighbours and strategic allies in the Council and in the European Parliament also defend this significant increase in ambition. I hope that the Flemish Government will also be able to join this path of raising ambition as quickly as possible. I have a paragraph in Dutch that I will translate directly. The 55 % reduction in greenhouse gases proposed by the Commission in relation to the 1990 figures should be divided between the ETS and the non-ETS. For the final objectives of the Member States, we must probably wait until 2022. But we must already pay attention and take into account the rise of these ambitions through the implementation and updating of the Energy-Climate plans. The rise in European ambition is emerging and it is now certain that Belgium will have to contribute to this recovery. This is very important to our country. Indeed, in order to achieve climate neutrality in Europe in 2050, Belgium cannot hide behind the other Member States by asking them to do more in the short term, while we must all decarbonize in the long term. Our societal fabric, our businesses, our young people need a clear framework and perspective, a vision that gives them these perspectives and opens up opportunities to find solutions, innovate and transform. We cannot miss these opportunities while waiting for others. We need to move forward. I am convinced of the enormous potential of such a transition dynamic in terms of economic progress and the development of new jobs and technologies, particularly in the field of the circular economy and energy. We must therefore, without delay, prepare ourselves to strengthen Belgium's objectives by operationalising and strengthening the PNEC, by revising, as agreed in the conciliation committee, our long-term strategy, the formal framework for inter-federal discussions on the subject and the National Climate Commission, which, unfortunately, until now has not been very effective. But, as I announced last June, since the federal government has recently held the chairmanship of the National Climate Commission, I will organize an intercabinets meeting as soon as possible to address the priority political issues on this subject and therefore this speech by the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u40	Madam Minister, as far as those delegated acts are concerned, there is a modest reassurance, as they would now be removed by a German proposal. However, the short term is much more important. In the second part of your reply, you stressed the need for an intra-Belgian agreement to strengthen the NEKP. We find it worrying that the energy intensity in Flanders is not valued by Europe. Is there an impact study for Belgium yet? Are we sure we can handle this? Like the Flemish Government, I have my doubts about this. I wish you every success, because in the next few months, perhaps with another minister, this will once again be well served with the Flemish Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have taken note of the resolution you mentioned in December 2018 and will try to obtain a copy of it. In any case, I can only welcome the ambition of the Belgian objectives. Of course, we could always go further, but I thank you for the clarification you have given today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u42	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to hear that there is no lack of ambition. However, you referred to other levels, where that level of ambition is not always the same. The determination is, of course, and will remain, the same as we are talking about the intra-Belgian agreement on climate policy in this country, because of our state structure. Of course, that is very regrettable. However, I find the following much more important today. And that is why I asked this question. In these times, it is important for political actors to give a signal, as Mrs von der Leyen did, to say that we must not lose that focus. The economic consequences of COVID, which will undoubtedly be there, and the climate problem are not two separate data. Mrs von der Leyen also points out that the renovation of buildings and the like is a key to economic recovery, but also to making our buildings more sustainable. She also talked about green bonds. So there are a lot of opportunities. I hope that the opportunities that exist today will be seized by everyone in the coming months, including in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The Green Deal focuses on the goal of making Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. Although further efforts are needed, they are likely to achieve the new target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions set by the European Commission. This can be achieved not only through the policy pursued by the Member States, but also through the willingness of the employers to do so, whether they are SMEs or some major global groups. It will be up to Belgium as a whole and the other EU Member States to demonstrate that technological means, skills and investments will achieve the objectives set and, in particular, promote the development of the circular economy with carbon neutral production by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u44	Mr President, Minister, some Members have just referred to the European Recovery Fund for Next Generation EU. Within that fund, a whole range of new financial instruments and programmes have been proposed in recent weeks for investment and reform. On 9 September 2020, the press stated that EUR 4.8 billion of European subsidies would be waiting for Belgium. Meanwhile, this message has been adjusted to EUR 5.15 billion. Important for the Energy Commission is that one third of that amount should go to green investments in the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Facility, an important component of Next Generation EU. Member States should submit their projects by mid-October 2020. The offshore sector is, of course, awake in that story. Two weeks ago he issued a press release on the industrial opportunities in the post-COVID-19 relay policy, i.e. on the Green Deal. There is also the roadmap of the offshore renewable energy strategy, which states that the Next Generation EU instrument "will be based on investments in line with the Green Deal priorities as key drivers for European jobs and economically sustainable and inclusive growth." Madam Minister, can you give an overview of the possibilities for European investment funds in your policy area in the broad framework of Next Generation EU? Is that limited to offshore for your policy area? Can you confirm the information I have quoted on this matter? Can you explain the procedure whereby projects should be submitted by October 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u45	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the next generation EU can indeed bring about substantial subsidies for Belgium, where our country could claim some EUR 5 billion of subsidies, of which EUR 3.88 billion from the Recovery and Resilience Facility. Thirty percent of the budgets of the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund are earmarked for climate, while the climate challenge is mainstreamed in the budget. For the Recovery and Resilience Facility there is even 37 %. Moreover, all EU expenditure must be in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and lead the do-no-harm principle (...) EU budget. Recovery and Resilience plans or national recovery plans should be submitted to the European Commission by 30 April 2030 at the latest. A draft may be submitted in October, if required, together with the national draft budget. It is important to take advantage of this opportunity, because it will allow faster support from the Commission. As you know, the national recovery plan is currently one of the priorities for federal government formation. It is therefore encouraging that the negotiations are now approaching the final stage, because progress must be made quickly in order to obtain tailored support and expertise from the Commission in the form of a technical support instrument for the preparation and implementation of the recovery plan. In order to benefit from this aid, Belgium must submit an application to the European Commission by 31 October at the latest. Next Generation EU includes the following funding programmes: Recovery and Resilience Facility, REACT-EU, Horizon Europe, InvestEU, Rural Development, Just Transition Fund and rescEU. As the European Commission, the Council of the EU and the European Parliament insist on green transition and sustainable recovery, and energy, environment and sustainable development are within my remit, the funding programmes relating to recovery are also in my policy area. In this context, I would like to emphasise that, in order to claim EUR 3.88 billion in European grants, our national recovery plan must be in line with the recommendations of the European Semester, the National Energy and Climate Plan and the territorial Just Transition plans. The underlying logic is, of course, that investment is needed for climate and energy transition, which have a high multiplier effect in terms of employment, GDP growth, economy and ecology. With regard to the Belgian national recovery plan, I see a specific role for public investment in infrastructure, both in terms of the renovation of the building stock and in terms of sustainable transport and mobility. Moreover, investment in renewable energy, circular economy, innovation, research and development to reduce environmental impacts will be essential for the industrial sector to move towards a sustainable recovery. We must, of course, also create an investment climate that also encourages private investment in the climate transition. The gradual introduction of a budget-neutral carbon price and phasing out of subsidies for fossil fuels, both of which are the subject of decisions under the Belgian NEKP, would be a good step in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u46	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you once again for setting out the general framework for the EUR 3.8 billion of the Recovery and Resilience Facility programme. Your policy areas will have an important role to play in the national recovery plan to be presented next month. I have already indicated that the 6 gigawattuur to offschorewind in the Belgian North Sea by 2025 can be an important beacon in this matter. We shall certainly return to this European programme in this committee over the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, this Friday, September 4th, Elia presented the draft route of the "Hainaut Circle". As a reminder, Elia wants to implement a new high-voltage line across the province of Hainaut. The purpose of this 380 kV link is to link Avelgem and Courcelles. For many months, several cities and municipalities involved in the development of this new line have expressed their concerns. They regret the lack of transparency and dialogue on the part of Elias. They also denounce the fact that Elia has not yet demonstrated the interest of such a project. For these cities and municipalities, this project is irreconcilable with the preservation of the quality of life of the inhabitants and will have an impact on agricultural land, tourism and the environment. In addition, some cities have defined fundamental objectives in the communal development scheme that are absolutely not respected in the draft route published by Elia. The project also runs counter to the recently approved territorial development scheme of the Walloon Region, since one of the strong pillars of this scheme is precisely to rationalise the transport of fluids, energy and telecommunications with a view to preserving the agricultural areas of the sector plan. It is essential to carry out studies on the impact of this line on agriculture, health and the environment, and I am moving on. The affected cities want Elia to focus on alternative solutions to ensure the well-being of boring citizens. I am speaking very well here, Madam Minister, about the citizens of Hainaut, because I am not questioning you as leader of a Socialist group in Soignies, but as a Member of Parliament, concerned about the common good. My local fight goes beyond Soignies and his villages. Indeed, I hope that alternative solutions can be found, which must not put the burden on other cities and municipalities. At the moment, it is a veritable sweep through our beautiful province of Hainaut that is proposed. I plead for a credible, concerted and unimposed solution. For now, that's the feeling that local authorities have. I also call for full transparency in this debate, for transparency that is lacking and for which there are many rumours that are swelling and that are becoming clearer. All this is not good! Minister, can you present us with the real interest of such a project? There is often talk of a mandatory obligation to ensure network stability and to transport green energy. Is the first statement based on recent studies, and if so, what? For green energy, it is known that this is the most commonly used marketing argument; but what about it? What were the different options considered? Is another project being considered? If so, can you tell us more? Have you met with the federated entities about the project of this line? If so, can you tell us more? Finally, at a meeting with the mayors and Walloon minister Jean-Luc Crocket on 4 July, Elia was asked to involve Professor Damien Ernst in the further study. What about his report? At the time, Minister Cucke had advocated a permanent and transparent dialogue with local authorities. Unfortunately, today it is clear that it has not been heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u48	Mr Prévot, first of all, I would like to thank you for raising your question by making it clear, in plain words, that you are speaking here as a Member of Parliament and not as a representative of your commune, although you are exercising local responsibilities. Be aware that I, too, wanted to wait for this exchange before responding on Facebook to your fellow citizens who are obviously calling me. Indeed, when Elia – who, although an independent society, enters my field of competence – triggered the process and published this information, I disseminated it, after which I received quite legitimate returns from our Hainaut compatriots. To answer your first question, I can tell you that the detailed assessment of the interest or, more precisely, of the need for the "Hainaut Circle" project already dates back several years in the framework of the Federal Plan for the Development of the Electricity Transmission System for the period 2020-2030. This plan is updated every four years and covers a period of 10 years. It contains a detailed estimate of the transport capacity needs and commits the system operator Elia to the obligation to translate these needs into an investment programme to be carried out, including the "Hainaut Circle". The preparation of this plan is also subject to an in-depth public consultation, which gathers the views of many stakeholders, including federated entities and regulators in each Region, both in terms of needs and assumptions and scenarios developed for this purpose. The Federal Development Plan was approved on 26 April 2019 and recognizes the project of the new link of Loop du Hainaut as an important and indispensable 380kV corridor. I quote a sentence from Elias: "This new link is essential to avoid internal congestion. These can happen when large quantities of electricity will be imported simultaneously from France after the strengthening of the Avelin-Avelgem axis and from Great Britain by the Memolink interconnection of 1 GW in combination with high offshore wind production which will be in installed capacity of 2.3 GW by 2020 and which, I would remind you, will reach 4 GW by 2030." These situations will occur more frequently after the release of nuclear power in 2025 and as the share of renewable energy increases in the energy mix of France and Great Britain for the sake of the simple reason that until large-scale industrial storage has been found and developed, the quantities of electricity generated by renewable energy must be used at the time they are produced. Since they can be produced with important cuts and since they are the first to be injected into the network given the power that will be installed in our North Sea, the interest is also marked for the transport of this renewable energy to all Belgian consumers (since the North Sea is federal) at a time when the wind blows heavily and continuously, since it is at that time that we use electricity as a priority. The Loop du Hainaut is a missing link in the Belgian and European network. This project involves connecting the Avelgem stations in Flanders to Courcelles in Wallonia with a new AC power connection with a voltage level equal to 380kV and a transport capacity equal to 6GW. When you analyze what I have just transmitted to you about the import through the French, English (1 GW) interconnections and the production of wind turbines in 2020 (2,3 GW and 4 GW in 2030), you will understand the technical and physical requirements that this line must be provided to support such a power. This project is based on four main objectives: to ensure access to competitive electricity for companies in industrial zonings and affordable for households and for all citizens of Hainaut and Belgium; to increase the capacity for all renewable energies - I have already explained this - on the sea and also on land. There are also land-based wind turbines and photovoltaic panels that increase capacity in our territory and whose electricity, at the time it is produced, needs to be consumed in the absence of large-scale storage. All this is done both in Belgium and abroad, through interconnections; to support the economic development of Wallonia and more specifically of Hainaut where the current 150 kV network reaches saturation. It is above all a demand from our companies in industrial zonings that are completely saturated. They require more interesting and wider access to electrical energy; guarantee the reliability of the electricity supply for consumers, i.e. the more power you have, the less you fear a supply disruption that can be catastrophic first and foremost for consumers but also for the network, with all the collateral economic damage you can imagine. In response to the second question, the various options for both the route and the choice of technology, e.g. air or underground, were considered with a view to the introduction of a dossier requesting the revision of the sector plan. These options have been the subject of numerous studies at the initiative of Elia and of opinions and external contributions such as those I mentioned above. In order to carry out this infrastructure project, the system operator must proceed in three stages: it is necessary for him to submit an application for a revision of the sector plan in order to include a reservation area or corridor which allows for a main electricity transmission infrastructure. This stage began in early September with the filing of the application in the municipalities concerned; an urban planning permit is necessary and absolutely essential in order to define the exact location of the infrastructure within this corridor, which is much wider than the infrastructure itself. The exact location will narrow the right-of-way on the ground. Finally, construction and commissioning can take place in several years. This whole project is estimated to be about ten years old. The project presented by Elia, on 4 September 2020, for its part in Wallonia covers a corridor of 200 m wide and crosses 14 communes over 84.8 km. This is the first public phase of the project after more than two years of work. In defining the corridor, many criteria were taken into account by Elia, such as the upgrading of existing sector plans, the consolidation of infrastructure, exclusion criteria such as SEVESO sites or airports, the human environment criterion in order to avoid habitat areas as well as environmental and heritage criteria. Alternatives have been studied in depth by the Network Manager and some of them will be presented during the official dissemination of the project instead of a pre-briefing which will take place shortly, on 24 and 25 September 2020. The objective of this first public stage is to present the project and to collect all comments, suggestions, denials, multiple and various requests concerning the proposed revision, but also to be able to identify specific points and to present alternatives that may reasonably be considered by Elia, so that they are taken into account in the preparation of the environmental impact report. During this phase, other alternatives may therefore be proposed by the population and local authorities. These will obviously be studied by Elia. Let me turn to your third question. The Plenary CONCERE of 14 January 2019, that is, the platform that brings together all the energy administrations of this country, both the federal and the Regions, has agreed to the request of Elia for the establishment of a follow-up working group "inter-federal coordination" for the MOG II and Ventilus projects, as regards the part of this high-voltage line route on the Dutch-speaking side, and Boucle du Hainaut which is the other part that I spoke to you about for the Hainaut. This agreement has been given in view of the links between these projects (MOG II, Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut) and with the aim of ensuring that the three projects mentioned above are implemented within the deadlines set for the implementation of the development plan 2020-2030. Mr Prévot, I am opening a parenthesis because it is important to communicate all the elements. Of course, from the start, I made personal contacts with representatives of the communes affected by the Hainaut Loop in Hainaut. I have also offered myself as an interface with Elias, but I have not yet received any specific requests to establish contacts with the Dutch-speaking municipalities also affected by the project, which on their territory bears the name of Ventilus. I have therefore already received a great deal of information, which I have transmitted to Elia, systematically establishing the link with these communes. As a result, my colleague Jean-Luc Cucke - who was still Minister of Walloon Energy at the time - also began to establish contacts with the mayors affected by this project. We worked together to play the role of facilitator and interface for the exchange of information. I now turn to the working group set up within CONCERE. It should be noted that this group is part of the Committee for Consultation and Facilitation on Licensing (CCFA), which provides the organization and secretariat and reports to CONCERE. This group brings together both the cabinets - including my own - and the Energy and Land Management Administrations at the federal and regional levels. This working group makes it possible, among other things, to establish a link between the competences in the field of energy and spatial planning (regional matter) in view of the interests to ensure good coordination between projects relating to onshore and offshore wind development, market convergence and security of supply, interests which must be respected throughout this process in the framework of the project. The objective of the group is to ensure a smooth running of the authorisation routes for the MOG II, Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut projects. It is therefore a monitoring, exchange and monitoring group, which combines federated entities with the federal government. At the moment, this group plays an essentially informative role for each federated entity as well as for Elia, in order to allow us to know the state of the art of the processes under way, but all this will evolve. It allows for regular consultation between federal and regional authorities on the progress and modalities of the three projects, in a first phase, at the planning level. It ensures close monitoring of progress and procedures. I repeat the same thing several times, and you will excuse me, but I want it to be very clear. This group monitors the development of renewable energy in the North Sea (MOG II project) and the reception capacity for the integration of this energy into the onshore network (Ventilus project). Secondly, it follows up between the Flemish and Walloon regions on a new axis crossing the linguistic border between Avelgem and Courcelles (the Boucle du Hainaut project). The group can also play a role in the exchange of good practice, in the resolution of possible problems at the levels involved, and in the coordination and alignment of processes for trans-regional infrastructure through the networking of experts from the various federated entities. So it's very good that you asked the minister in charge of energy at the federal level. The procedure for revising the sector plan, however, falls within the competence of Walloon Minister Borsus, who is responsible for spatial planning, as you know. Of course, I invite you to contact him. In your last question, you refer to a meeting on July 4, 2019. In the meantime, Professor Ernst has not yet been given an official mandate and has therefore not delivered any conclusions. But of course I meet Professor Ernst very regularly. Whatever the level, I can ask him the question. However, with regard to exchanges during the same period, the municipalities concerned had also asked for joint information on the project. This took place, because since May 2019, and on several occasions, Elia has met with the municipalities concerned apart and all together, during the year since January 2019. The aim of the approach was to collect comments from local entities in order to integrate them, where possible from a technical point of view, and in view of the objectives I have listed. These are intrinsically linked to the project in Elia's proposal. I am at your disposal for additional items and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you. I am delighted that you have waited for my question to speak publicly on the subject. Indeed, it is a subject that brings a lot of ink, and not just on social networks, because if we do politics for the common interest, and we can understand and hear the utility of energy supply to the population of this Loop du Hainaut, when we make politics more simply local – I know that you are also a municipalist – we must also guarantee the well-being of the population and wonder about the common good. The common good is also to make sure that these people do not see any real scars, sweeps that would cross our countryside. For the moment, the route that has been proposed to us – then, of course, we will wait for the information sessions of 24 and 25 September – seems to us completely hallucinating at the level of the campaigns crossed, given the environmental impact on our cultures, but also at the level of tourism. We are really on our hunger for the discussion, which is not broken since it is non-existent, with Elia. We feel like we've reached a stage where they want to impose the project. I can tell you, and I'm taking off my MP's hat for a moment: at the local level, it won't pass! I was talking about Soignies. The mayor of Soignies appealed to all his colleagues to be supportive in order to avoid this forceful passage of this electric highway through the Hainaut. There will be a lifting of shields from local actors, but also from citizens who are mobilizing. Since you have regular contacts with Elia, I ask you, I ask you to make them understand that on the ground, we need permanent contact, transparent discussions and above all to be heard, because for the moment, unfortunately, we have the impression that this has not been the case. Thank you very much, in any case, for what you can relay to Elias.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u50	Mr President, if I may, I would like to respond immediately to this request, which I find very legitimate. I am very sensitive to the landscape and the heritage and very attentive from the beginning, you understand, that the route is as optimal as possible. You recalled, I have also been a municipalist for 26 years now. I therefore know what is happening to the protection of the population, to the understanding, to the pedagogy that must be shown and to the anticipation that we, as municipal leaders, must show in relation to all these projects, whether they are small or large. Don't worry, I keep in constant contact with the representative of Elia who manages the communication in this project, to explain to him the many requests that come to me - and you -. That's why never hesitate to contact me, so that you can work in depth on the ground. I've been listening for months and I want to stay that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u51	Minister, we're counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u52	You can!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u53	Madam Minister, it is almost time again, by 15 October you will have to fix the minimum amount of the repartition fee by royal decree. Last year we debated this in plenary and also in committee. I said at the time that this year would be very interesting. Indeed, the CREG has been given the difficult task of setting a new minimum amount, which, unlike in previous years, is no longer laid down in the Law of 25 December 2016. It remains very difficult as a Member of Parliament to get a look at the situation. Please remember that at that time the Legal Affairs Department was asked for an opinion on how Members of Parliament could learn about the way in which, and on the basis of what data, the CREG would carry out the audit from this year on. You said that under Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure there would be a confidentiality clause. In any event, on 25 June the CREG did not take an opinion but decided on the fixing of fixed and variable costs in the calculation of the profit margin of the power stations subject to the repartition contribution. The annual fixed and variable costs are determined by the CREG three times a year under the law for the 2020-2026 contribution years. I come to the subject of my question. You said in the press that you were surprised by the CREG proposal, because it is "only" about a lower limit of EUR 72 million, more than half less than the minimum set for the period 2016-2019. Can you explain to us your surprise about the CREG's decision on this contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Friday 11 September, La Libre Belgique announced that the nuclear tax on second generation reactors (Tihange 2, Tihange 3, Doel 3, Doel 4) would only bring back 72 million in 2020, compared to 137 million in 2019, a decrease of almost 50% in one year. The bulk of this levy is borne by Electrabel, the balance being due by Luminus, which holds a 10% stake. A 20 million package for Doel 1 and Doel 2 is added. In 2021 and 2022, the financial contribution is likely to be even lower for the State since the financial floor below which this tax cannot be lowered, as determined by CREG and for three years, would have been set by CREG at 216 million for the period 2020-2022, whereas it was 450 million for the years 2017-2019. Established in 2008, it was intended to compensate for the profits that the operators made as a result of the rapid depreciation of these plants. At the time, the nuclear rent tax was set at 250 million. In 2012, it even peaked at 549 million. Since the overall trend has been declining steadily. Minister, do you confirm the information in the press? How do you explain this constant reduction? What is the method used by CREG in establishing the minimum amount? Shouldn't this mechanism be changed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u55	Madam Secretary, we could read in the press that the CREG is proposing to halve the nuclear tax. That is bad news for public finances and good news for Electrabel and Luminus. While the nuclear tax amounted to EUR 137 million in 2019, it is now almost halved in the CREG proposal. The tax will amount to EUR 72 million by 2020. In 2011, the nuclear tax amounted to EUR 600 million. The nuclear tax depends, among other things, on the costs of operators. Can it be said that the nuclear tax also depends on the amounts that operators should legally set aside for decommissioning? Before you changed the method of determining the nuclear tax, that nuclear tax was a lump sum. Do you recognise that your revision of the method of calculating the nuclear tax has enabled Electrabel to pay less than the lump sums of previous years? Can you explain why the nuclear tax is constantly falling?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u56	Mr President, my answer has been drawn up in French. I am better at translating Dutch into French than vice versa, so I will answer in French. I apologise to Mr Ravyts and Mrs Daems for that. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for determining the allocation contribution of Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3, which are the unextended power plants in this country, for the time being, is regulated in detail by the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants. It has been voted in this House and I am applying it. The Act of 11 April 2003 entrusts a series of tasks to CREG, the national regulator, which has all the necessary expertise, means and powers to carry out its mission and the necessary independence and impartiality vis-à-vis both operators and the government. The fixed and variable costs of the operator shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the law and the methodology laid down in the law for the determination of such costs. Reference is also made to this law, in CREG Decision 1964 of 30 January 2020 and in Decision 2066 of the same CREG amending Decision 1964 following a complaint under review by Electrabel. These two decisions contain the methodology for setting fixed and variable costs for plants subject to the distribution contribution I mentioned above, for the period 2020 to 2026, since the law also provides for this. To sum up and be simple, the CREG applies the law that we voted for, and I, too, have applied this law. The minimum amount is calculated by the CREG in the manner set out in the Schedule to the Act. The law provides that "the amount of the apportionment contribution over each three-year period may not be less than the sum of the minimum amounts of the apportionment contributions for each year of that three-year period". In fact, the CREG must carry out the same exercise that I carried out with my cabinet at the beginning of the legislature – some of you did not have that period – which consisted of setting a minimum floor below which the allocation contribution cannot go down. In this regard, I can only advise you carefully to read these technical documents that are publicly available on the CREG website or to ask directly, what you are able and able to do, your questions to the CREG. In this context, CREG has communicated to me its decision on the fixing of fixed and variable costs, referred to in Section V of the Schedule of the Act to be applied for the years 2020 to 2022. It shows that the nominal values of fixed costs have increased by around 16 %. Electrabel submitted a case in which the company argued that its fixed operating costs for its plants had increased by 16% and that its variable costs for these plants had increased by 28% compared to the amount set out in the law for the previous period for which I had fixed a minimum amount, in consultation with Electrabel, at the beginning of the legislature. As the law also provides, the CREG has communicated to my administration its opinion on Electrabel's profit margin in 2020. Finally, it also sent me its opinion on the calculation of the annual minimum amount referred to for the period 2020-2022. It appears that the minimum annual amount, before applying any principle of degression – i.e. a grade in the distribution of costs between Luminus and Electrabel – calculated by CREG, has decreased by about 50% compared to the amount I negotiated with Electrabel at the beginning of the legislature. And that's what surprised me – to answer you, Mr.Ravyts. On this basis, the Energy DG of the SPF Economy then undertook the final operations requested by law and proposed the amount of the allocation contribution for this year as well as the amounts of individual contributions – also for this year – as well as the application of the principle of degression, which distinguishes between what Electrabel and Luminus must pay, respectively. It is up to me, as you say, to table these results in the form of a draft royal decree for October 15, which is in preparation. You're asking me why the allocation contribution would still be declining. I'll answer you with four elements. First of all, as Mr Ravyts rightly points out, the allocation contribution is linked to the minimum but also to the profitability margin which depends largely on the fixed and variable costs which are assessed by the CREG at a higher level this time but which also depends heavily on the electricity prices in the wholesale markets, which are rather low at the moment. We must rejoice, no matter how much they go back. There is a gain on one side but, unfortunately, there is a lesser gain on the other. It also takes into account the volumes of electricity from nuclear power plants which, as you know, have been shut down at certain times. Indeed, the number of nuclear power plants subject to the allocation contribution has decreased and now covers only four plants. At first, the allocation contribution, including M. Ben Achour spoke about the entire nuclear park, i.e. also Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and Doel 2. Since the beginning of this legislature, it has been limited to four power plants, Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. The Doel 1 and Doel 2 extended power plants are, as you know, in another regime, the royalty system. It should be noted that with the final shutdown of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 in 2022 and 2023, the amount will continue to decline and these two plants have been shut down to examine the condition of the reactors for two years. In addition, as has been the case in the parliamentary proceedings which I invite you to consult, but also in the course of various legal proceedings, since the nuclear rent has already been largely withdrawn in the past, the over-profit generated by Electrabel and which can still be withdrawn is much weaker than before. I myself saw this in the negotiations I made with Electrabel at the beginning of the legislature. It is clear that we have been extremely hard in this negotiation and that we have demanded a minimum which, obviously, is higher than the minimum today arbitrated by the CREG. It is therefore necessary to be in this calculation and this increasingly precise work in order to continue to draw an overprofit from a nuclear rent which is undergoing a structural decrease, hardly being confiscatory. Here I draw your attention to a fundamental element, which had precisely justified Electrabel's legal action: if you tax too much, you are confiscatory, you abuse your rights and you are liable to refund tax with late interest and other interest to the taxpayer. The tax must always be fair, objective and non-discriminatory. Therefore, there is always a need to comply with the main rules in this area, which explains why a precise calculation is required. I now come to Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. Yes, Mr. Ben Achour correctly mentioned Doel 1 and Doel 2, which receive a flat-rate fee of €20 million per year (an amount of €100 million so far and €200 million by 2025, which contributes significantly to the development of the energy transition through the energy transition fund which contains it and which makes it possible to use the energy funds of the past for the energy of the future), but it must be remembered that the fee mechanism of the Tihange 1 plant – extended under the Di Rupo government – does not yield anything. This mechanism has raised EUR 9.9 million in the first financial year but since then, since the formula has been badly negotiated and is not fixed, it allows Electrabel to carry forward operating expenses on profit and to make the formula negative. You will admit that this situation is extremely problematic, because the purpose of this fee was to support wind energy in the North Sea as well as investments in gas and storage, if my memory is good. With regard to your question – relevant – as to the effect of the costs relating to the decommissioning provisions on the allocation contribution, the law (which was passed by your Parliament under the previous legislature) is also very clear and contains three fundamental elements that I will quote. First, the profit margin for nuclear power plants calculated in accordance with the formula described in Section 2 of the Schedule to this Act does not directly or indirectly include any costs associated with nuclear supplies and their revision, including provisions for the dismantling and management of irradiated fissile material, with the exception of the initial provisioning of the fuel in variable costs for the fuel consumed during the period – which is normal. The second element is that there are neither direct nor indirect costs associated with nuclear provisions and their revision, including provisions for the dismantling and management of irradiated fissile material, with the exception of the initial provisioning of the fuel, this time in variable costs for the fuel consumed during the period. Thirdly, these costs do not directly or indirectly entail any costs associated with nuclear supplies and their revision, including provisions for the dismantling and management of irradiated fissile material, with the exception of the initial provisioning of the fuel in variable costs for the fuel consumed during the period. You can see that this is repeated rigorously three times, and that it makes a good distinction between what should be part of the calculation and what should not be part of it. Finally, I should like to quote the opinion 52.250 of 13 October 2017 of the Council of State on this subject: "The rules of calculation which are the subject of Article 14, § 8 of the Law of 11 April 2003 no longer leave any margin of appreciation to the executive power." These precise and complex calculations and assessments have been assigned by law to CREG, the independent regulator, and to DG Energy, and I am executing the situation as far as I am concerned. You now understand that this procedure for determining the allocation contribution of Doel 3, Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 is objective, traceable and transparent, and that we continue to honour our commitments in this matter. I confirm that the amount of the allocation contribution for the year 2020, which will appear in the draft royal decree, will amount to 72 million euros after application of the degression mechanism provided for by the law. Thank you for your attention. I will ask my office to translate into Dutch the answer I have just given into French for Mr Ravyts and Mrs Daems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and for the willingness to have it translated by your cabinet. I will read it carefully, because the calculation mechanism is very complex. I am pleased that you have already made a number of nuances about what is and is not included in the variable and non-variable costs. The CREG implements the law, and certainly the law of 25 December 2016. I fully support that. Some Members do not seem to want to understand this, even because they had already questioned this law in the previous legislature from their ideological points of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for this very dense response. I'll have to take the time to read it again. Indeed, the mechanism is complex. I remember that at the time, some had considered that the tipping point of this dossier had taken place in 2015 during the negotiations on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. You remember that at the time Damien Ernst, for example, had found that the fact that Doel 1 and Doel 2 had been extended to nuclear tax negotiations had been a mistake, which had weakened the government's position. I'm going to go back to what he said at the time, but without any judgment, because once again, I want to take the time to reread the answer you gave us. But he said that the minister, in this case yourself, had made a mistake in linking the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 to the nuclear tax negotiation, that you were part of the principle that Electrabel absolutely wanted to prolong Doel 1 and Doel 2, and that it was ignoring the reality of the electricity market. If the wholesale price continues to fall, Electrabel may not recover the EUR 700 million of investment needed to extend the two reactors. And from there, according to him, slipping, in any case one of the causes of the decline. Once again, I will take the time to reread the long answer you have given, and then I will come back to this committee, perhaps with you, Madam, perhaps with someone else, to continue examining this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u59	Mr President, may I briefly respond to Mr. Ben Achour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u60	Yes, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u61	Mr President, thank you. Mr Ben Achour, in fact, the phrase you quote from Professor Ernst simply means that perhaps it was not these plants that needed to be extended. He had a much broader view of the extension of nuclear power in this country, you know very well. He later confirmed it more and more. Basically, he meant that the investment that will have to be made on these plants is quite a heavy investment because it is the first power plants in our country, which may be simpler, if not more rudimentary. It's a term that may be a little supported, but that's the meaning. So he did talk about the distribution contribution, but then he went into something he doesn't know, which happens to him. I say it very friendlyly because I know him very well, and I have had the opportunity to tell him sometimes. But in fact, in this country, you cannot touch on the issue of nuclear power without touching on all the issues related to the park. In essence, his criticism focused solely and simply on the choice of extended power plants. The distribution contribution in itself is structurally low - as you will discover by analysing my response in depth. For the simple reason that electricity prices rise or fall, they cannot be expected for such a long time. Above all, the costs are increasing, because - and we cannot say one thing or the other, let us be honest - the security requirements are increasing and require more and more investment. This is the basis for the structural difference in the ability to capture the overprofit generated by Electrabel. I would remind you that it was simpler at the beginning, because the Belgian state had fallen asleep a little bit and had accepted that Electrabel should amortize nuclear power plants since their creation - which dates back to the seventies and eighty - in twenty years. This depreciation was so rapid that after more than twenty years, around 2003-2006, questions began to be asked about the surplus profit which - due to the rapid closure of the depreciation - would flow 100% into Electrabel's caisses. In short, this profit was not sufficiently captured by corporate tax or other charges. Hence the idea of the distribution contribution. Since then, things have changed considerably: safety and security standards have increased sharply, power plants have been shut down for a thorough examination - Doel 3 and Tihange 2 -, for in-depth interviews for the other power plants or, for the LTO, for the extension of Tihange 1 under Di Rupo and Doel 1 and Doel 2 under Charles Michel. That is all that needs to be considered. Extracting Damien Ernst's sentence from its context - which was itself a factual error, since it had linked the tax aspects and the extension - cannot be sufficient to produce such a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u62	Madam Minister, I do not dispute your comments. You will have noted my caution by quoting Damien Ernst. I am also when I read. I know how to share things among his expressions. The point is this: there is a structural decline today and for which we have to question ourselves in this context of energy policy, which is at a crossroads. There are many uncertainties when we thought we had crossed a course in July with the vote on the CRM resolution and you saw the Commission's communication recently. It seems to me that the next minister of energy will have a lot of work and this commission too. It will call for all our vigilance. You may be with us, however, I do not wish you. I wish you every success in your current position. Collectively, we will have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u63	Madam Secretary, I will analyse your answer in detail. On the one hand, the social rate is rising, on the other hand, ENGIE Electrabel makes a lot of profit. That doesn't make any sense. All nuclear power plants have been written off since 2005, because we have paid too much for electricity. It is not normal that the tax is so low compared to those profits made. The reduction in the nuclear tax you want to apply now allows ENGIE Electrabel to make even more profit, while people are having more and more difficulty paying their bill. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u64	Mr President, since I arrived a little late this morning, I can devote you a little more time and stay until 1.30 p.m., if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u65	Madam Minister, all the parties in this committee will be in full agreement on the need to invest in renewable energy. However, we have had debates in the past on extending the lifespan of a number of nuclear power plants. Whether or not they should remain open is currently the subject of negotiations for the creation of a possible Vivaldi government. We have been able to learn about a study by EnergyVille, a research collaboration between KU Leuven, VITO, imec and Hasselt University. It calculated the budgetary impact of some possible scenarios around a nuclear exit with a full exit in 2025, a lifetime extension of the two youngest nuclear power plants by 10 years or a lifetime extension of 20 years. The results of the calculations were not really surprising because they largely matched the arguments of Flemish Interest in this committee. Keeping two nuclear power plants open for longer would result in annual savings of up to EUR 134 million. At the same time, 25 megatons of CO2 emissions would be reduced compared to gas plants. Contrary to what is often claimed, it was also concluded that a lifetime extension does not prevent investment in renewable energy. Madam Secretary, how do you interpret the results of EnergyVille? Has this affected your opinion on a possible extension of the life of the nuclear power plants? Were these results discussed within the current government? Are you prepared to open the door to postponing the nuclear exit by 2025 and to send it to the negotiators to take it to the negotiating table? The latter of course only applies if your party chairman, who is known as a flying atom, is taken seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u66	Mr President, I note that a great deal of time is devoted to the questions and answers. Which means I don't have time to ask my question anymore. I will read the answer later in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Daems and Mr Van Lommel, like you, I have taken note of this energy study. I recall from this study that a significant closure of verifiable capacity is expected in the period 2020-2030, both in Belgium and abroad; that a very strong increase in renewable capacity will take place, both in Belgium and abroad; that a nuclear extension will reduce the need for investment in gas plants and have a negligible impact on energy; that Belgium will import a large amount of electricity demand when nuclear power plants are completely closed; that an extension of two nuclear power plants will reduce these imports; that an extension of nuclear capacity will reduce the CO2 limit of the electricity sector; that a nuclear extension will reduce the annual costs of the electricity system, with an impact on wholesale prices and, finally, that a high ambition of renewable energy requires a strong electrification of demand in most sectors. I maintain that such studies, prepared by experts, show an evolutionary nature of the results of models and analyses, which is normal and characteristic of a scientific and rational approach. Such investigations should be peer-reviewed, interviewed, analysed, etc. I also note that it is always difficult to compare the results of different studies, such as EnergyVille or Elia, whose methodologies and model assumptions differ. The two studies nevertheless confirm the need for new controllable capacity from 2025. Such studies can in any case be used to stimulate debate and analysis of decision-takers and may be useful for a subsequent government. Unfortunately, I cannot answer your specific technical or economic questions because I am not the author of the study. I can only hope that another government will continue the work and actions aimed at achieving security of supply with low-carbon energy sources and at an affordable price. That's all that matters. Although it is not for me to interfere with the work of the committee, I can only encourage you to organise a hearing with EnergyVille and the other necessary stakeholders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u68	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You state that you are not an author of the study yourself and that you cannot therefore make a number of statements. I fully understand that for the sake of clarity. However, Madam Minister, in my question I naturally referred to the interpretation of the results. I understand, however, that you are referring to the next government and that you do not really want to confess colour in that area today. Madam Minister, I am pleased that you say that we are talking about scientific and rational approaches here. I also hope that the other Members have heard this very well, and that these approaches are necessary to have an open and constructive debate when we talk about a possible core step. In the past a debate on this matter in committee was quite dogmatic and not really manageable. Madam Minister, for the rest, you note that there is an increase in renewable capacity. That's right. We acknowledge that, too. However, it will certainly not be enough. However, energy needs will continue to rise. Madam Secretary, let me give you an example. If we want to live up to the ambitions of hydrogen, among other things, our energy needs will only increase in the future and we will have to extend the lifespan of the two youngest nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u69	Mrs Daems has since left the Chamber. She had another meeting, so she wouldn't reply anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u70	Madam Minister, I already put an oral question to you in December on ITER with a comprehensive answer from you. At the end of July 2020 it was the official start in France of the assembly of the so-called tokamak of the ITER fusion power plant. By 2025, the first fusion reactions could take place in ITER. I have now read that researchers from the Royal Military School have been given the green light for an ambitious research project under the Energy Transition Fund, set up by the Belgian Government. Researchers will build a new type of heating system for a European nuclear fusion reactor, an important step towards a carbon-free energy sector. The research focuses on the heating of hydrogen plasmas by means of radio waves. On my oral question of 3 December 2019 on nuclear fusion and the role of the federal government, you said that the Royal Military School and the Nuclear Energy Study Centre are members of the Trilateral Euregio Cluster (TEC), which coordinates research into the nuclear fusion between the Netherlands, Belgium and North Rhine-Westphalia. The new heating method of the KMS will now be applied for the first time to the European stellarator W7-X, in addition to ITER, the main European experiment that is part of the European Roadmap for Fusion Electricity. Can you explain more about the KMS project and its federal funding in the light of the Energy Transition Fund? How much is the funding? Can you explain the role of the KMS and the SCK in the research and construction of components for the global ITER project? What role do Belgian members play globally in the Trilateral Euregio Cluster? Will a legislative framework on nuclear fusion be developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u71	Mr Ravyts, I have a whole sandwich in answer, but in French. Do you want the answer translated? Otherwise, I will be able to answer you in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u72	I suggest that you give me the translation, Madam Minister, by written means, also out of respect for Mr Friart, who had asked a similar question. Can you translate the answer into Dutch?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u73	Sure, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u74	I suggest we set a new date. On 13 October, unless there are other developments in the framework of the formation of the government, of course, it has been proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u75	Mr President, on 6 October 2020 this was not possible for me because I have a European Council. Like everyone else, I hope that a new government will intervene quickly. Mr President, this may be the last time I have the opportunity to respond to you as Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development in this committee. I thank you for all the work we have done, for your constructive attention, for your insight and understanding in the work. This has been an excellent session for me since you became a member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic263x.u76	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for these fine words. Goodbye!
