ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u1	Mr Vandenbroucke, welcome to this committee for many questions. Let me explain to you our M.O. You're probably already aware of that. In principle, we hope to see you every week. That is also what the Rules of Procedure require. With Mrs De Block we have sometimes had to insist on that, but that was usually respected. We agreed to alternate meetings with a session on COVID-19 and a session with questions that do not relate to COVID-19, unless the pandemic assumes such proportions that we have to talk about COVID-19 every week. We'll see about that. Today we have 78 questions on the agenda for COVID-19. 47 questions on non-COVID-19-related issues are already on the agenda next week. I can tell you that there are several questions about the flu vaccine. We would make that a small topical debate next week. Today, Mrs Sneppe was on the agenda for a discussion on the division of healthcare budgets. Mrs Sneppe has asked me to postpone this until next week because this does not really have to do with COOVID-19. Finally, after a little experimenting, we came to a method - it is impossible to ask 78 questions in a sitting - that we set up a speaking time per group, depending on the size of the group and the D'Hondt method, with 8 minutes for groups with 3 Members, 5 minutes for groups with 2 Members and 3 minutes for the groups with one Member. It takes about an hour. After that, I'll give you about an hour for the answers. The reply of the members will then be 6 minutes, 4 minutes and 2 minutes respectively. If time allows there are additional answers or clarifications from you, followed by a final reply by the members. Mr Vandenbroucke, we started a little later today. Until when can you stay with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u2	Mr President, I have no time limit today. I thank you for this exchange of views and I am very happy to play fast and engage in a lot of dialogue with you and your committee, but you must understand that I am in the midst of very acute crisis management today and that I still have many things to deal with. So my answers may be a little frustrating, in the sense that they will be a little general or sometimes a little uncertain. I hope you will excuse me, because that is, as it were, the counterpart of the fact that I am willing to do so. Do I understand the procedure correctly that all the questions are asked first and that I then answer grouped together?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u3	Yes, but sometimes the questions overlap. Members sometimes make a choice in the questions they ask. They will refer to the others, because you have, of course, been given them. We understand, of course, that time is short and that you still have some work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u4	That's true, in all honesty. It's better not to give the impression that I know everything if I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u5	The replies of Members will show to what extent they are satisfied and understanding. I have another meeting of my own tonight. That is why I asked Mr Bertels to replace me from 4.30 p.m. The N-VA Group will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u6	Welcome, Minister. I have indeed tabled a whole series of questions. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 55009147C, 55009148C, 55009149C, 55009150C, 55009314C, 55009589C, 55009590C, 55009592C, 55009596C, 55009597C and 55009601C I refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u7	Minister, we have been working on the special COOVID committee for a number of weeks. We have heard, among other things, the RAG and the RMG. Both Dr. Quoilin and Dr. Pardon complained about a lack of manpower. Because it looks like we are going to face a protracted crisis, the end of which is not yet in sight, I wonder what exactly is being done to strengthen their services. I believe that this is very important, with a view to correct and rapid data processing. It must remain feasible for the people working on it on the ground. Furthermore, we see very clearly that the coronavirus is moving up again. Wallonia and Brussels in particular are now being hit very hard. A long time ago I noticed that the number of tests was disproportionate to the number of positive cases. This is now clear from the positivity ratio. Is this being monitored? Is the test capacity increased if that ratio increases? The WHO wrongly advises the proportion of positive tests at 3 % to 12 %, but in Brussels they are at 18%, and Hainaut, Liège, Namur and Walloon Brabant are at more than 12 %. What concrete measures were taken to increase the test capacity there? How come there is relatively little testing? Belgium is now almost at the head of Europe on the positive cases. Do you see any explanation for that? We still hear very little about the sources of contamination. Lately, we've been hearing more about the K-value. Are we doing retrogade contact tracking, are we going to find out who's been in contact with someone infected? Or do we focus solely on the contacts that came after this? 20% of the people would provide 80% of the infection, so it is important to look back as well. I also wonder if you have eyes on the health personnel. If that is to manage this crisis for a while, it is important that the staff can sustain it. Is it properly monitored? Do we know where we have to expect deficits and are we working to prevent them from happening? I am thinking, for example, of the short-term retraining of doctors. One of the important things is that we must learn lessons from the first wave. One factor is to know what happened to the people who were admitted to hospitals. A long time ago, I asked about the mortality rates per hospital. However, Sciensano does not want to disclose that data. However, I think it is important to know, so that we can also see where there were good examples, where patients have apparently been treated more efficiently and to see if we can follow up on those cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u8	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to say that I think it is very good that you are already freeing yourself up for our committee. Few of your colleagues have answered our question. We fully understand the hustle and bustle when working. You are delighted that you are here so quickly to answer our questions in this committee. I would add that there has been very little coordination in the past, which is of course difficult in crisis situations, but this has often led to a lack of acceptance. We therefore hope for a break in style. I welcome the fact that you are here now. My questions mainly concern the healthcare sector, since I am a nurse myself. I would like to come back to questions that I took up with your predecessor about a state of affairs, because that is a bit of a lay-by. The nurses and the care staff are my stick horse. We really advocate better working conditions. To this end, we have also tabled a resolution aimed at getting more hands in bed in the institutions and a better remuneration for home care. I have read that in your coalition agreement, and I welcome that. In concrete terms, however, it has not been implemented. I hope that today you will be able to give some positive signals in concrete implementation, such as a higher standard and the way in which you will actually tackle an increase in fees. Your predecessor introduced the covidbonus for home care, a very good thing, but since August it has disappeared, when nothing has replaced it. Your predecessor announced that an evaluation committee would be considering a follow-up of the COVID-19 bonus, but there is, unless I missed something, not until today. That is why I hope you can offer some perspective. Because of the COOVID-19 crisis, this sector still needs to make a special effort. For example, samples are also taken. I asked your predecessor to provide a nomenclature number for this, but she was not inclined to do so. I hope you are. Finally, I had tabled a question about compulsory home-time care without pay. I understand, however, that this question has been referred to the Committee on Social Affairs. I will come back to that in that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u9	Mr President, Minister, welcome to our committee. In the first wave, a lot has gone wrong, and I understand that in the one week in which you are competent, you have not been able to clear up the chaos. The challenge is great, so is the expectations. I refer to the written record of my questions. 55009341C, 55009514C, 55009515C, 55009516C, 55009517C and 55009518C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u10	A first element I would like to discuss with you is the tests. The PCR tests are known to you, but there are also the quick tests. With regard to the rapid antigen tests, there is still a lack of legal clarity in the field. Are these tests actually allowed in our country, in addition to the already authorised Coris BioConcept antigen test in our country? Will these tests be refunded or will they be refunded in the near future? The FAGG does not really clarify this. Will that clarity come soon? Will the government buy those tests? Germany has indicated that it will provide 9 million such tests per month. How's our country handling that? In addition, there are the rapid antibody tests. The FAGG warns on its website that the interpretation of those tests can be difficult. Do you think those rapid antibody tests belong in the pharmacy, for example? Do you attach conditions to the validation for the sale of those antibody tests? What do you think of the experiment running in a Liege hospital? That's where free saliva tests are being handed out right now. Who's gonna pay for that? At the moment, the hospital indicates that it will bear the costs, but ultimately it will come to the taxpayer. In connection with the PCR tests, what about the reagents and the swabs? Will you take over the work of the task force or will the corona commissioner do so? I'll get the flu vaccines. That is a real problem right now. There's not enough stock. It also appears that occupational health services vaccinate without taking proper account of the risk groups, as agreed. Nor would they respect the phasing. Are you aware of that? Do you require a registration of the flu vaccination? Finally, Minister, what will happen to Johnson & Johnson's vaccine? There has been a communication there, but it is not very clear to us. For my other questions, I refer to the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u11	Welcome, Minister. I refer to my written questions. 55009275C, 55009398C, 55009399C, 55009580C, 55009582C, 55009586C and 55009587C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u12	I would like to come back to a number of questions. My first question was about the distribution plan of the hospitals. You paid a great deal of attention to this last week in plenary, but problems have been reported again today. Can you explain the distribution plan of the hospitals? Can mayors resist that? Have you found a plan that takes into account the limits of medical solidarity, as mentioned in the media? Minister, I also have a number of questions about the Coronalert app. I hear there are now 1 million users. What does it mean, in concrete terms, when one gets a red screen? Can one then be tested or how does it work? Older devices that do not work with the most recent operating system cannot download the app. How can we get those people, which is necessary if we want to at least triple the number of users? There appear to be quite a few different guidelines for general practitioners in circulation for testing on COVID-19. I noticed that last week, when my sons had to be tested. The GP said that all roommates should be quarantined until the results were known. There was then a discussion with the employer, because he had received other instructions when he experienced it himself. This discussion between employers and employees can also be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I would like to hear from you what directives are currently in place and how they are communicated to the general practitioners. In short, if someone in a family needs to be tested, what guidelines apply to the roommates? Should they remain in quarantine until the result is known or not? That is the specific question. What will be communicated to the general practitioners? I also have a question about travellers returning from an orange zone. I have discussed this a few times with your predecessor, but just when I submitted my question, I read on the info-coronavirus.be website that the additional questionnaire is now operational. However, the correct instructions do not yet appear to reach the returnee. On the website info-coronavirus.be everything seems to be operational, but not yet on the website of the FPS Foreign Office. Why is that? Is there some kind of delay in that? Furthermore, the coronabarometer was again discussed in the press today. Can you give us an update? Can we do much about this now, now that it appears that many zones would color red in the meantime? I would also like to comment on the agreement on the additional 67 million for mental health care. How's that going? Yesterday there was another call from the youth platform WHAT WAT, which really expects a peak in the psychological problems of young people in the autumn. What's the status? Of course, I would also like to call on you to spend the additional 67 million quickly, because that is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u13	First of all, I welcome the Minister. I will not dwell on my question about patients with long-term sequelae of VOCID-19 and will refer to my written text because this question was also raised by some colleagues today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u14	I will focus in particular on the question of general practitioners (question 55009572C) on the brink of saturation or even burn-out. They are overwhelmed by procedures related to testing requirements, for which contact with the general practitioner is not always necessary. They depend on the testing centres which are also completely outdated as can be seen from day to day, as in Liège this morning. I was also told that in Charleroi, it was no longer possible to get tested before Friday. The situation on the ground is becoming very problematic. General practitioners also report a lack of communication and information about the symptoms of VOCID. In general, and despite communication efforts, citizens remain relatively uninformed about the health rules and reasons behind them. Minister, is it possible to review the entire administrative process taken over by general practitioners who completely asphyxiate them. This question asked more than a month ago remained unanswered. However, actors on the ground are still waiting for an urgent response, as the situation has become more than problematic. What is your position on the use of salivary test or sweating Could it be considered to compensate for the current congestion? In conclusion, I would like to take stock of the vaccines expected against VOCID. Does Belgium maintain its agreement with its sole supplier AstraZeneca or are other options considered? In the event that a vaccine other than that produced by AstraZeneca is to enter the market, could it be used in view of the current health situation? It seems to me that access to the vaccine is becoming a priority. Are we still about four million doses and at what rate should they reach us? Seven million? Since there are two doses, four million times twice. Are strategic stocks of syringes planned (at least seven million) since the whole world will need these vaccines at the same time? It would be a disaster if vaccines were available, but no syringes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Hinge. I'm looking at the PS group. We're going to miss Mrs. Tillieux. She was our vice president. We expect the PS group to appoint a vice-president.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u16	Minister, good morning and welcome to the Health Committee. Thank you for being already available to lend you to this important exercise for legislative control and how difficult it is for you, too, who have come into office under the conditions we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u17	The issue of testing has already been discussed, which is obviously essential. Today, there is a significant saturation in the testing capacity, particularly of hospitals and testing centres which are forced to close in order to reduce the delay; this was the case a few hours ago in the province of Liège. This moves the problem to other testing centers. It is known that this also causes delays in the results of the tests. However, these results are essential. The faster you are, the more effective you can fight, the more effective you can track and take useful action. Minister, do you think that solutions can be found to make up for this delay and to enable patients to achieve their results as quickly as possible? Indeed, waiting generates stress, anxiety, fears of contaminating others. What is your action plan? What is the agenda of the latter? Your predecessor reported a capacity of 90,000 tests per day. Today we are talking about 45,000 tests. Will we be able to achieve this goal when we are already seeing the difficulty of carrying out these 45,000 tests? Are you considering using, like other countries that do, such as the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, the rapid tests that are – it is true – less sensitive, but that could complement the PCR tests? What is the status of Belgium's reflection on the subject? As has just been said, general practitioners are on all fronts. They're exhausted and they're asking for federal support. I am thinking in particular of Wallonia, where 146 communes are in short supply of general practitioners. The situation of the latter is no longer tenable because, beyond the role they play in testing and screening, they have a very heavy administrative task to perform, not to mention the follow-up of their patients who appeal to them for other health problems. Are you considering solutions to support generalists, to maintain testing capacity, but also to ensure the front-line management of winter diseases that will soon hit our doorstep? Is it possible to reduce their administrative workload either through administrative simplification or through financial or logistical support? Mr Minister, at last I would like to address the issue of the barometer. Everyone knows that citizens' membership is necessary. Today, they need clear, effective and predictable measures. The coronavirus barometer is therefore eagerly awaited. Have you found a consensus on the criteria in our roadmap? Are there any elements currently under discussion? Can you tell us how soon this barometer will be implemented? Mr Minister, I shall now give the floor to our colleague from the PS Group, Mrs Zanchetta, to whom I welcome to this committee and who, I hope, will replace Mrs Tillieux favourably.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u18	Minister, I will be brief enough. As we understand it, research on COVID-19 vaccines seems to be moving forward. Several laboratories say they have started phase 3 of clinical trials in humans. News is also changing over the days, but some trials have just been suspended after serious adverse reactions have been discovered. Therefore, my questions are as follows. How many vaccines are currently in phase 3? What do we know about their effectiveness? How many Belgian citizens are participating in these trials today? Some press reports state that the vaccine should be available in Belgium as early as next March. Is that likely, in your opinion, given the recent news? Finally, experts estimate that 70-80% of the population must be vaccinated for a virus to disappear. Yet, many citizens seem reluctant to get vaccinated against VOCID-19. How do you envisage this vaccination policy so that it is effective? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u19	Good work for you, Minister, and thank you for being here this afternoon. For ease of reference and the record in particular, I refer to my written questions on questions Nos 9427 and 9588.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u20	Minister, I would like to touch on the communication. It has sometimes been lacking in the first few months of this crisis. For the past few days, we have again seen a very worrying increase in the figures for VOCID-19. Through the concertation committee, new measures have been taken: closing of coffees at 11.00 p.m., bubble of three, etc. Other more drastic measures have been taken and should still be taken at regional and/or provincial level. However, part of the Belgian population is starting to get tired and is unable to understand the measures taken by the different levels of power. Minister, since you took office, you have been praised for your pedagogy in terms of explanations. This is something that has been pointed out since the first hours of your taking up office. Good communication is the key to better adherence to the measures. Minister, are you considering new initiatives to best inform the public and specifically some of the more vulnerable groups of our population, where we know that the measures are less well understood? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u21	I now give the floor to the Flemish Interest Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u22	Mr. Chairman, there was a communication disorder. Minister, I welcome you to our committee and thank you for your digital presence and interest. I would also like to thank a number of Members for the questions that have already been put by our group. For my questions on speed tests, Mr President, I would like to refer to the written part of the questions. 55009328C, 55009331C and 55009333C. For my questions about the closing hour for the cafés, I would like to refer to question No. 55009408C. However, I would have liked to stress the question of the basis for that decision and the question of empirical research that should demonstrate the link between the closure hour and the increased number of infections. For the questions on a possible new lockdown, I would also refer to the written whole with No. 55009575C. However, I would like to give an explicit answer to the question about the parameters and their thresholds, if any, in order to proceed to a new lockdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u23	As far as testing capacity is concerned, I would like to hear about the doubling of testing capacity announced by the Prime Minister by the end of this month, but I also refer to the written part of Question 55009574C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u24	How do you reconcile the Prime Minister's statement with the statements by virologist Van Gucht, who stated yesterday at the press conference of the National Crisis Centre that in practice the test capacity is already at its maximum? Finally, a very topical question. Last Thursday, the mayor of Aalst, a colleague of ours, was almost lynched during Question Time in this House. And what do I read in the La Capitale newspaper today? Mr Manfredi Ventura, medical director of the Grand Hôpital de Charleroi, asked why he would endanger their capacity and care for the Hainauts because they did not function properly in Brussels. What is your reaction to this, and by extension that of the whole red family? Will they also ask questions in plenary next Thursday, or will that outrage only apply when it comes to Flemish mayors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u25	I would have liked to stress the lobbying work of the pharmaceutical industry. In this crisis, the pharmaceutical industry is seen as the savior in need, but it has been using this crisis since the beginning to make money out of it and to anchor its model of profit maximization. This is demonstrated by e-mails and transcriptions of telephone calls that the lobby watchdog Corporate Europe Observatory could access. As if that weren't enough, a former high-ranking pharmaceutical lobbyist and owner of a company doing business with the sector is negotiating on behalf of the EU. That raises questions about conflict of interest. I have the following questions, Minister. Have you heard of such lobbying and conflict of interest? How bad is the lobbying of the pharmaceutical industry in Belgian politics? How many times a day are you or your cabinet called, emailed or pressured by such lobbyists? Could more transparency about negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry lead to better results in terms of cheaper medicines or vaccines? One person's death is the other's bread, they say, but we see that this is quite a serious bread in the pharmaceutical industry. The profits are enormous, of course, but is it not fair to ask for a return in times of crisis and to reduce prices? Will you raise the issue of lobbying and condemn it at the next European meeting? Will Belgium play a leading role in curbing such lobbying? I have a very different question next to it about the RAG's proposal to divide positive cases into low-positive, positive and high-positive. Why has this opinion not been discussed so far? Will you put the system in order so that the curves can be cleaned out and people don't needlessly go into quarantine? To what extent does Sciensano take into account the virus charge to compile the figures on new infections? I would also like to know what is going on in Belgium with the stock of Remdesivir and other anti-viral agents that are important in the fight against corona. What is the status of the flu vaccine? Are there enough vaccines available and how does vaccination proceed compared to previous years? Can you also get us the distribution plan for the hospitals? Which hospitals can spread patients where? What is the financing of that plan? Can Walloon patients also be transferred to Flemish hospitals, because now it is mainly about the spread of Brussels patients? How many patients are we talking about for the time being and how many patients can it reach? Colleagues already asked why Belgium has not yet ordered rapid tests. What kind of quick tests are we talking about? I heard the strategy has yet to be defined. Is there room in the strategy for self-quick testing, as this could be a decisive factor in the crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u26	The next group that should speak is the MR, in the person of Ms. Taquin, but she is not present. We haven't heard from him. If she connects or joins us here, she can speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u27	Mr President, I refer to questions 55009269C, 55009268C, 55009271C, 55009272C, 55009273C and 55009274C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u28	Minister, I would like to explain to you some of the work I made yesterday at a Limburg hospital. In addition, I was told that data processing is still not functioning optimally. I'll specify. Most labs can know for sure today whether it's a severe or a minor infection. The saturation of the steel can be measured very well. Today, however, e-Health does not allow us to register in this way. All these labs have a mass of data that we could use to make policy decisions, but unfortunately they cannot yet be based on e-Health. What's your opinion on the matter? Can progress be made quickly there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u29	I refer to my questions. 55009317C, 55009423C, 55009594C, 55009595C and 55009599C. Mr President, Minister, pneumococcal vaccine, pneumovax 23, from pharmaceutical company MSD is not available in our country for unclear reasons. This is unimaginable for our general practitioners, because the vaccine will be desperately needed this autumn during a possible second wave. The HGR recommends that this year, in addition to the annual flu shot, a pneumococcal shot. Vaccinations may cause up to half less serious contamination. This means that fewer hospitalisations are needed, and that we are less at risk of overloading hospitals in the autumn. In neighbouring France and the Netherlands, the vaccine is simply available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u30	- What is the state of play on the supply and purchase agreement between AstraZeneca and the European Commission, specifically for our country? - What's your evaluation of the contract? - Are you in favour of making the contract public? If not, why not? What reasons do you see for keeping the contract a secret? If so, what measures will you take? - Do you share the PVDA's view that the vaccine should be a public good? What measures will you take to that effect? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u31	As you said, Minister, solidarity is our only weapon against coronavirus and in recent days you have made a broad appeal to the public to respect all measures of social distancing, among other things, and to limit contacts. Today, I would also like to refer to the current situation in which we are for lack of political responsibility. Two days ago, Professor Nathan Clumeck was invited to the RTBF and I quote: "There was a lot of emphasis on people's responsibility, but the state must also provide solutions. General practitioners are at a standstill. Testing centers are in crisis. We lack hospital staff and nurses are exhausted." I also quote Didier Swysen, who in Sudpresse yesterday, said in his editorial: "So of course, we can repeat that we have our destiny in our hands, that we will only avoid a new confinement if we show common sense. We can castigate these young and less young people who do not comply with the instructions and we will be right, but this must not relieve our political authorities of their responsibilities. Watering us with numbers will not erase this feeling that we continue to run behind the virus in testing and tracing. If everyone knows a contaminated person today, it is sometimes understood, he can certainly cite another person who is waiting for a test or a call from the tracing service wondering what to do." That's what I wanted to ask you about. It is obvious that if we do not really control the situation today, it is also because the testing capacity, Minister, is not up to date. We are only about 35,000 tests a week and we have to wait much longer than 24 hours, more than is recommended. What initiatives are you going to take to ensure that deadlines are tightened? Similarly, how can contacts and sources of contamination be improved? I'll explain. In Le Soir, Mr Pieter Timmermans considers that "it is necessary to stop pointing at employers, because it is not within companies that the problem arises, but when people get out." He claims, therefore, that it is not in the workplace that employees are contaminated. However, we still do not have figures on this subject. You'll be able to tell us what's going on. Finally, how are you going to help front-line staff, who can't help them anymore? Colleagues have already talked enough about it, but general practitioners are at a standstill. What measures are you going to take to support caregivers, who are still waiting for extra arms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u32	Prime Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your ministerial position. The area of public health is a difficult, but oh so important policy area. I do not think I should convince you of that, especially in the crisis we are currently in. You will find in me within this committee a constructive partner to push health policy in our country in the right direction. I refer to the questions put in writing. 55009203C, 55009505C and 55009506C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u33	Family doctor's associations, professor of general medicine Dirk Devroey, schools and employers note that a lot of certificates are issued that exempt people from wearing a mouth mask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u34	Minister, in our country, but also in many other countries, there seem to be quite a few recontaminations. It is also clear that we are not always aware of all the recontaminations. Will re-contaminations be reported and registered so that we get a better picture of the number? Can you confirm that the genetic material of the virus has been altered or altered? What are the consequences for our policies and for the risk of re-contamination? People re-infected see that the composition of the virus has changed. My second question concerns the certificates to be issued. Family doctor's associations, professor of general medicine Dirk Devroey and schools and employers note that many certificates are issued that exempt people from wearing a mouth mask. At present, there are no guidelines when a doctor is allowed to draw up a certificate. However, it seems clear that there are different insights in general practitioners about when it is appropriate to grant such an exemption. Have you received any such signals? Is the problem everywhere or is it bigger in certain areas? If so, where exactly? Are you considering communicating with the general practitioners? Then I come to the deployment of quick tests. At the beginning of September, advice was requested from the RAG on this matter. If I understood correctly, the advice was promised to us by mid-October, so now about. When do you think these quick tests will be available on site? Do those rapid tests, which are slightly less sensitive than the PCR tests, provide a solution to the fact that those PCR tests today also detect old infections? We have heard that the current PCR tests sometimes also detect old infections that require people to go into quarantine when they are no longer contagious. Are these quick tests less sensitive? What can these rapid tests be used for in the first instance? I am also concerned about the possibility of using quick tests on children, as this quick test is also carried out with wipers, while those wipers are not really child-friendly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u35	For sp.a, I have the questioners Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u36	Mr President, I am speaking directly from Haacht today. I would like to refer to my questions for the report. 55009573C, 55009584C, 55009585C and 55009591C, which I would have liked to have been included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u37	Minister, I would also like to welcome you to our committee. Along with the contact detection and compliance with the rules, testing is about the most important strategy in controlling the pandemic. There are the PCR tests. In the meantime, antigen tests and saliva tests are also involved. I have heard you say for a few days that it is an en-en-story and we must bet on its combined use. I would have liked more information on this. How do you see that? Mr De Backer has always said that we can scale up to 70,000 tests a day. In practice, there are just over half, 36 000 to 37 000 a day. I hear doctors say that more is not possible because of the lack of manpower or women's power. I hear that people in the Netherlands are in favour of testing specific target groups and not anyone who comes by with a cough or asks for a test. I was wondering what your strategy would be here. How do you see the course? Minister, you are praised for your communication and I am happy to endorse it. Yet we find that a number of groups in our society are not reached with classical communication. I am thinking, for example, of young people, who get their information mainly through their own channels and not through traditional channels such as newspapers and television, and specific target groups in society with their own news channels. Last Friday, young people visited the COVID-19 department of the UZ Brussels and were able to ask all possible questions and make movies. They were then asked to distribute these videos through their social media channels to their specific target audience. That was a very good example. Are similar initiatives being taken in your cabinet, adapting the communication to the target audience? My final question deals with the international aspect. Mr Reynders said this morning that the colour codes within Europe have finally been knocked off. That is a very nice step in the right direction. However, I am more concerned about the fact that anyone from outside Europe who enters the country via the airport must only show his passport. They are not asked to enter quarantine, no test is carried out and no certificate is requested. I have already given you examples of this. I'm worried about that M.O. Could you shed some light on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u38	Thank you, Mrs Giroflée. Next time, a little better watch your time please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u39	Minister, welcome to your first committee! It is obvious that every effort must be made to ensure that barrier actions become automatic and that people have close contact with as few people as possible. That being the case, I have been struck over the last few days by the sausageing of the advertisements. Every day, we add a diaper. I am not sure that this will lead to a better acceptance by the citizens. Moreover, in order to convince them, they must first and foremost understand the full scope of the decisions taken. In relation to this, yes or no, are the data available to define the places where VOCID-19 travels the most (bars, public transport, workplace, family, university campuses especially at the kots level)? Different countries have these data. If this is not the case, is it not time to encode this data because the tracking now focuses on people and does not take into account the types of places at all. I think we could decide much better on the most appropriate measures, better communicate with transparency and therefore convince. Besides this, the only weapons available are testing, tracing and isolating the positives, provided that it is extremely fast and effective. Today, we have a theoretical capacity of 40,000 tests, but in the field there is a huge lag and saturation of the centres. Sometimes it takes several days before an appointment is made and this time is even longer to get the test results. And worse, patients who have symptoms or especially those who have been in contact with a positive case are sometimes sent home, saying they are no longer being tested. Some centres have even closed for a few days. I have different suggestions in relation to that. Isn't it time to reorganize the testing? Should we not prioritize those who are symptomatic as well as those who have been in contact with a carrier with respect to the usual technique (swimming or PCR)? Mass screening as well as other types of screening (holiday returns, etc.) could be done with salivary self-tests. This would allow the saturation of the centres to be lifted. Finally, can we also reduce the administrative burdens of the testing centres, which are enormous? It is necessary to encode, reencode, sometimes reencode a third time during the different stages. It takes a lot of time. What about the reinforcements on the ground? We have to reach a 24-hour target between the time we decide to do a test and the test result to switch to an immediate tracing. Again, this remains insufficient in relation to the objectives set. And as far as isolation is concerned, there are no figures - or I would like to hear them - on the actual effectiveness of isolation. Of course, we do not know how to have 100% of the data, but if we look at the models of other countries, especially Germany, we see that the effectiveness of the system is much more important. I would also like you to clarify to me the exact mission of Commissioner Corona. Nine Ministers of Health; there were five or six for masks previously. Today, what is the mission of this additional Commissioner? Mr. Chairman, a few questions to finish in telegraphic style. I refer to my written questions. We are already deprogramming non-COVID-19 patients in hospitals. Do we have an accurate view of the follow-up? It's obviously dramatic for other patients. I'd like to make a long call for VOCID patients. About 10% of patients have a pathology for several months. It's time to have guidelines, a multidisciplinary management framework, official recognition. Finally, I refer to my questions 55009280C and 55009486C to ensure that medical assistants who are specialists now have a confirmation of recognition of the occupational disease and to ask you to be able to obtain the contract with ZenTech in a transparent manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u40	Minister, more than 114,000 cases of contamination have been confirmed in our country. Among them, it is estimated that 10% would have generated so-called long-term patients. This would amount to nearly 11,000 people in arrears.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u41	•Do you consider an official recognition of symptoms by Inami, accompanied by good practice guides for doctors, including for medical consultants, as well as a specific financial intervention?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u42	• Have certain liability actions been taken against the Belgian State following CELEVAL's opinions? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u43	•Do you not fear that if our country is validated it will again be a victim of its slowness and thus face stock disruptions because the others will have placed orders faster than we do? Thank you. Mr Minister, like my colleagues, I have to go back to the catastrophic situation in the screening centres, which are overcrowded, but also that of the laboratories, which no longer follow, for lack of reagents, equipment, but also human means – and I am thinking in particular of technologists. It is our responsibility to ensure that, in order to guarantee a result within 48 hours – which is necessary – some laboratories are obliged to limit the number of tests to be tested on a daily basis. Can you confirm that the reagents are rationed? For what reason, and on the basis of what criteria are they distributed among the screening centres? Do you confirm the lack of machines to analyze these tests? What is the status of the installation of the federal platform bis? What will be its composition? What will be the missions? Will it be operational, as we are told, by November 1st? Are all private laboratories required to be able to strengthen our testing capacity? What about L'ULg's experience, which produces its own reagents? Therefore, can it be extended to other universities across the country? Do you confirm that the administrative procedures for equipping universities with high-capacity devices are so cumbersome that the development of this new organization is delayed? Finally, are you committed to doing everything you can to improve testing? And, above all, how? I also have to talk again about the plan for transferring patients between hospitals, which we discussed in plenary session. Some hospitals are increasingly concerned about the budgetary consequences of this plan, as they are virtually bankrupt because of the deprogramming that had to be done during the first wave of the epidemic. Thus, the president of ABSyM points out that hospitals want to protect their staff, who are already exhausted, and therefore show solidarity, provided that the burden is distributed fairly. How can you reassure them about this? It is also my responsibility from the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity (HTSC) Committee of the FPS Public Health that fourteen hospitals have already refused to accept patients from other regions. Do you confirm that? How do you intend to enforce this federal transfer plan, which is essential as it is based on this fundamental principle of solidarity? I would also like to hear about ventilation as a new barrier against coronavirus. Both the WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control stress that low ventilation in confined spaces increases the risk of transmission of respiratory infections and thus of VOCID-19. Are you considering making ventilation a new barrier gesture, as Germany has done recently? The last point I would like to ask you about is the unease of the experts. They sometimes feel instrumentalised or ignored by public authorities and are now close to burn-out. Can you tell us clearly what relationship your government will have with these experts? How will they work with the Coronavirus Commissioner? How do you intend to appoint a new inter-federal spokesperson and with what specific mission? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u44	Minister, this has given you a large number of questions. We are a bit used to this process, but for you it might be a bit of getting used to. We fully understand that it is not easy, especially since, until before your oath, two ministers in this committee answered questions and even a few other excellences, including on the competence of the mouth masks. I provide an hour's speaking time for your answer, but in principle you can use the time you need. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u45	Mr President, I have a thick folder of notes for myself, but I do not yet have an employee at my disposal who can give me the right notes. I don't know much about it myself. So it's not such an easy exercise, but I'll try to answer some questions. I'll start with the staff in general and the nurses in particular. A precise question was asked about this from the N-VA group and many people share that concern. The problem of the working conditions of the care staff in general is at the heart of the coalition agreement. In addition to applause and fine words, we want to take effective action to improve the working conditions of the care staff. As far as nursing staff are concerned, that improvement is provided for in the social agreement 2021-2022 and in the Health Care Staff Fund. It provides resources for additional jobs in hospitals, more cost-effective wage measures, qualitative and organisational improvements in working conditions and additional protective and preventive measures. You asked about the state of affairs. On 24 September 2020, the Federal Council for Hospital Facilities, which is responsible for delivering opinions on changes to hospital funding regulations, issued an initial opinion on this issue and continued its work. To make that possible, we need to increase the hospital budget. That increase is planned from 1 January 2021. One of the authors said that the translation of the budget increase and the opinions, through the adaptation of staff standards for example, is of course also a matter for the Länder. Within the structure of the RIZIV, the procedure for establishing the 2021 budget is still ongoing. It is still a little too early to give precise information on this, but representatives of the sector have already submitted proposals on the 2021 budget in the Committee on Nursing and Insurance Agreements. They have rightly stressed, among other things, the need to make the profession of home nurse more attractive and to take into account the increase in care for dependent persons. Mrs Van Camp asked whether a special nomenclature number should not be provided for the collection of steel at home. However, that is not so simple. Steel collections under the COVID-19 pandemic are currently being coordinated from the various triage and collection centres. Through them, the organization, data collection and collaboration with labs are streamlined. In order to provide additional support to these centres, the RIZIV may conclude agreements with consortia of home nurses to provide nurses for the centres. A consortium has already been established for each of the five Flemish provinces. If necessary, the triage and collection centres can also call on those steel collection nurses at home. This is a temporary and exceptional measure which can be quickly rolled out. This was and will continue to be important to relieve the burden on the general practitioners. A change of nomenclature to this effect, in the case of steel, is a structural measure for which a royal decision must be taken. This extended procedure is therefore not really appropriate for crisis situations. Nor is it intended to change the nomenclature for acute crisis situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u46	Président: Jan Bertels. There is therefore a need to consider all kinds of elements of coordination. I do not rule out the possibility of a structural anchoring in the nomenclature of steel collections by nurses. At the moment, however, during an acute crisis, I prefer exceptional, targeted and rapid measures, as I have just indicated. Mrs Van Camp also spoke for a moment about the bonus. We need to clarify that point more precisely. A draft Royal Decree was adopted in June 2020 to provide financial compensation for the costs incurred by carers for specific equipment and protection measures. For purely administrative and legal reasons, nurses were not included in that new royal decree, but an existing scheme for nurses was extended until the end of August 2020. That Decision did not enter into force on 31 August 2020. It's been decided to extend it. In concrete terms, this means the following. It was decided to extend that decision, which expired on 31 August 2020. The nurses are integrated into the system for the other caregivers. This means, in concrete terms, that home nurses will also receive an amount of EUR 2.50 per physical contact from 1 September 2020. For up to 200 times per calendar month, this can be arranged directly through the sickness fund. The problem of extra costs incurred by nurses has been resolved for the time being. There are a lot of questions about the testing strategy. I would like to give a very general answer. The Government Commissioner, Pedro Facon, has already taken the initiative to launch a task force on the testing strategy. This morning, that decision was officially made at the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Health Ministers. Together we decided that there should be a task force on the testing strategy. Test strategy is, of course, something in which the RAG also plays a very important advisory role. So we are also listening to what the RAG says about this. I do not want to anticipate what this task force will propose on testing strategy and on the advice given by the RAG on this subject, but it is quite clear that we need to develop an en-en-story. We need to further roll out the PCR test capacity. Questions have also been asked about this. This concerns both the lab capacity, the analytical capacity that we need to develop further and which I will talk about later, as well as the capacity to decrease. With regard to the rapid antigen test and then, where appropriate, the screening methods via saliva removal, there are several rapid antigen tests. There are already available on the market. I would like to say the following. I say that carefully, but I think it is important that you are aware of how things are evolving in our country. The idea is indeed that the FAGG is already looking at what we need to do to buy rapid tests to a sufficient extent. We do not want to be left behind in the purchase story of antigen rapid tests. I cannot and will not yet tell you exactly which purchases we want to place. It's too early, but we're preparing it. We do not want to be left behind in the purchase of rapid antigen tests. We are still on the verge of putting its role in the global testing strategy with the task force which was unofficialised in the IMC this morning and which has already convened a first meeting on the initiative of Pedro Facon. Questions have been asked about the availability of those antigen rapid tests. There are already several rapid antigen tests on the market. I'll give you a very general answer. I'm doing that off the top of my head, so I hope I don't make any mistakes. With regard to the rapid tests that are already available, we cannot say which rapid tests are to be placed on our market and which are not. Quick tests are available. In general, I would like to advise people that when it comes to testing and rapid testing, they consult a pharmacist on what type of tests are available and what can be used for. A test with a CE certificate can come on our market. It is important that we develop a strategy with an en-story of antigen rapid tests, PCR tests and any new testing methods. There have been many questions about the test capacity. We have an ambitious plan to further roll out our testing capacity, in which indeed the federal platform bis plays an important role. What the Prime Minister said about this is correct: it is an important extension of the analytical capacity that we provide, systematically, from now to the end of December. I've got the numbers somewhere, but I don't have them right away. It is about an important enlargement. I want to be more specific about the platform bis. That's completely roll-out. Eight couples of university hospital laboratories were formed with a university hospital partner or an industrial partner. In Flanders, these are Antwerp, Ghent, Leuven. In Wallonia, these are Namur, Liège, La Louvière. In Brussels, that is UCB and LHUB/ULB. So there are eight couples. We allow the contracts to enter into with them as soon as they can guarantee 2,000 tests per day on their site. The intention is that these contracts will enter into force at least from 1 November. They're in a pre-final phase. These people must, of course, recruit additional staff, which creates an additional problem. However, it must be done. There is a great deal of pressure, that is right, at all levels, in particular the capacity to decrease and the capacity to consult on the first line. There are also solutions for this. Part of the solution consists of new IT infrastructure, whereby individuals who need to be tested for certain reasons, such as high risk contact, receive an SMS code and can make a reservation for a test in the reservation application itself. That way we want to relieve the first line. The Federal Platform bis should be in operation on 1 November. This concerns eight sites. The contracts are about finalized. We must, of course, have a guarantee that they will be able to carry out sufficient tests themselves. It's about two thousand tests a day. We have an agreement on the mandate of the government commissioner, including the sub-governments, the federated entities, the regional governments and the community governments. Quite simply, the Commissioner-in-Office of the Council will not take political decisions and he will not remove powers from a sub-government or the federal government in terms of decision-making. The Government Commissioner will help coordinate the preparation of decision-making and will help coordinate the implementation of decision-making. That is, of course, crucial. The government commissioner will also get a real team for that. He thus has a preparatory and executive role. The Commissioner-in-Office of the Council will therefore not replace the political decision-making process. One of the first things the government commissioner will do is to put the famous barometer on the verge of success. I was asked about the deadlines. I can be concrete about that. The ambition is that the barometer be developed around Friday. On that day, we will have a concertation committee responsible for taking decisions. That's the timing. A little more patience! We hope that, on Friday, the concertation committee will be set up, a committee in which decisions can be taken, particularly with regard to this famous barometer. If it is necessary to take new initiatives, in addition to the validation and political acceptance of the barometer, it will be by Friday. Mrs Fonck, you made a general remark. Is confusion going to prevail again because a whole range of measures are being announced in the sectors, at the provincial or local level? I'll say no. It must be borne in mind that we have launched a common foundation which is a minimum base of measures at national level. These are the measures we announced a few days ago, but we instructed governors, local authorities and sector officials to add measures, if necessary, depending on the local, provincial or regional situation or the situation in a sector. The fact that we have received a series of announcements of new measures yesterday and today is not in contradiction with the strategy we have decided on, which combines a common national base and diversification on the basis of local, regional or sectoral conditions. I realize it's very complicated for the citizen. On the other hand, it is effective to combine a minimum common base and diversification on the basis of local, regional or sectoral conditions. Of course, we are going to evaluate all of this, particularly at the level of the concertation committee. I hope that by Friday we will have fine-tuned this barometer, that we will be able to make decisions and thus politically validate this barometer and that we will be able to decide on the necessary measures in line with it. So I ask you for a little more patience. I hope that, by Friday, the concertation committee will be able to take decisions. With regard to the previous decisions, I would like to comment on a question from the Flemish Interest Group, among other things, about the empirical research on which we base ourselves to take certain measures, such as measures relating to the cafés. I would like to repeat and clarify my reply from the plenary. (...) We cannot wait for the ultimate scientific evidence on where exactly how many infections appear. However, some things are more than likely and are determined on the basis of scientific publications. The World Health Organization uses the three c's in its English jargon. We know with some certainty that there are three conditions in which spread and contamination occurs and sometimes also contamination in the form of superdispersal. The three c's are conditioned contacts, so in poorly ventilated and/or closed spaces, crowded places, for example a café with quite a lot of visitors who are too close together, and close contacts, for example kissing someone. Confined, crowded and close are therefore the risky situations. From scientific research we know that superdistributors played a very important role in initial dissemination. These are people who, in a particular context or event, infect many other people. About 20 % or according to some studies even only 10 % of people infected 80 % of cases. It is therefore very plausible that this happens in cafés, in dressing rooms of sports clubs or in similar circumstances. Hence the measures; they are therefore absolutely justified. We must also ensure that they are enforced. I come to the questions of Flemish Interest. I do not remember lynching anyone in the Chamber, but it is very important that the distribution plan is properly implemented by the hospitals. Whether they raise objections in Charleroi, Hainaut or Aalst, it makes no difference to me. The distribution plan is a fair distribution plan and it is also clear. I've been asked how it works. I am not going to repeat that, but you will find the elaboration of the distribution plan on the website of the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee. I'll give you the url: consultation bodies.health.belgie.be/en/comitology-hospital-transport-surge-capacity-htsc. That's where you'll find the information. That's no secret. It is absolutely necessary to organise this solidarity. It has also been asked for funding. I know this is a little sensitive. The transport costs for the patients are included in the federal government's budget of financial resources and are paid out to the health care institutions. Of course, when a hospital sends a COVID-19 patient to another hospital, who is cared for in that hospital, while the other hospital is financed for that. Let's look at that opportunistically. The necessary useful effect is that there is more room for regular care in the hospital that allows the patient to transfer. That regular care is funded to support the regular care in that hospital. Hospitals providing care are financed for this purpose. Transport costs are specifically set out in the budget of financial resources. Then there was a question about the language of the people: Walls, Flemings, French speakers. You know that the virus is not particularly good at recognizing the different languages. It does not distinguish between Dutch or French. We just have to deal with it together. Of course, we prefer that a Dutch-speaking patient be cared for in a Dutch-speaking environment and a French-speaking patient in a French-speaking environment. The Brussels Flemings will preferably be transferred to Flanders. French speakers will preferably be transferred to French hospitals. German-speaking compatriots are preferably brought to German-speaking institutions. Please note, general rules have been laid down. This is organised by the existing hospital networks. I assume that this is done correctly in view of the patient's interests. There were also many questions about Coronalert. We must campaign on this, that is absolutely right. But that's what's gonna happen. There is not only a four-language website, we also use Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and YouTube, both proactive and reactive. So don't underestimate what's happening under the waterline. The external communication agency Absolument was also asked to use campaign material in four languages. I could give you more details, but I think I'd keep you busy for too long. Those who say that we should campaign there are right, but it is also happening. We have decided to focus much more strongly on professional communication for everything. We are doing a little injustice to what has happened in recent months and to what officials have already started at different levels, especially at the Public Health Office. There's already professional communication. Social media is already working. Things are happening under the waterline, which we do not have to tell around everywhere, but which are very useful to communicate as effectively as possible. That's what happens with the corona app. They asked how far that was going. We have about 1 million users. Someone asked how to use that app. I'd like to suggest installing it. That's very fast. The instructions are, I think, easy to read. One must have turned it on properly, on the app one can also see how long it is already active. It's very simple, one gets green or red. With red one also gets the instruction what one has to do. I would like to refer to that and not repeat it here. Mr President, I'm a bit of a crisscross here. Important questions were asked about mental health. The coalition agreement strongly focuses on mental health care. Belgium still has some historical backwardness to make up for in taking seriously mental health care. The budget has been allocated; 67 million has been committed. We must now, of course, translate this into policy. There are some indications in the coalition agreement, but I do not want to anticipate and I do not want to start to improvise what it all means here. I will certainly not forget it, and I consider it a moral duty to convert that part of the coalition agreement into tangible deeds. Some reasonably precise questions were asked about the PCR tests, in particular whether their sensitivity level can also be used as a policy variable. A question was raised in my opinion about taking into account the so-called Ct value of the PCR tests, as it gives an indication to detect patients with high and low viral load and therefore low or non-infectious. Let me read out, because the complexity requires me to respond with caution. As early as late June, the RAG looked at whether a certain cut-off value for Ct values could be charged to distinguish old, non-infectious infections from recent infections. Recommendations were communicated to both the labs and the doctors. Although at first glance it seems to be a promising track, there are a number of practical objections to start reporting. First of all, not all devices report the Ct value. A lot of labs bought new devices to increase the test capacity. Some of these devices give only a positive or negative result. Secondly, Ct values are not comparable between different labs as they depend on test conditions. Labs must therefore carry out their own calibrations and establish calibration lines. Thirdly, a low viral charge, i.e. a high Ct value, can occur both at the beginning of an infection, in the upward part of the curve, and at the end of the infection. So one cannot just equate someone with a low viral load with someone who is not contagious. The labs are nevertheless encouraged to report the Ct values explicitly or semi-quantitatively and to give a warning at a high Ct value. It's complicated. We will take all these aspects into account in developing the test strategy. It is not so easy to implement a sophistication right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u47	Minister, there is a communication from the interpreters. You are very enthusiastic about the answers and the interpreters are having difficulty following. Maybe you could talk a little less quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u48	I apologize, I just wanted to respect the speaking time. As far as Remdesivir is concerned, there is no problem with availability in Belgium. However, you know that the medicine is not yet reimbursed. The procedure for the reimbursement of this medicine has yet to be started, and that is something the company in question needs to look at. However, according to the information available to me, there is no shortage. I'll get to the flu vaccine. We work on the basis of an opinion from the High Health Council that has formulated a strategy. We follow this strategy and distinguish it from target groups. There are priority target groups that are eligible first, e.g. older people and people from the health professions. I'm just gonna take the chip and make no mistakes. I don't see it right here and I'm afraid to give anything out of my head. However, you know that we work with priority groups for the flu vaccine. You also know that we are constantly monitoring the availability of the FAGG. Frankly, I believe that we have the right strategy if the priorities are followed on the basis of the opinion of the High Health Council. In essence, four groups are given priority, namely the 65-plussers, the people who are vulnerable for health reasons, the people in health professions and the people between 50 and 64 years of age. These are the priority groups that should be considered first. We believe that we have enough vaccines for these groups. However, I am afraid to anticipate any difficulties that may arise. Speaking of vaccines, I note that there was also a question about the COOVID-19 vaccine. We need to look at the dossier at European level. As you know, we have already contacted two companies at European level to provide a COOVID-19 vaccine. The third company with which the negation runs is Johnson & Johnson. As was also mentioned at the IMC of Health Ministers this morning, we will be taking part in the negotiations. When Johnson & Johnson concludes the negotiations and concludes a contract, Belgium will also be party to the contract with which Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccines are made available. That is where we are in the European story. Mrs Jiroflée, you had several important questions, including on international travel. You yourself have already indicated that there is a European agreement for travel in Europe, which is very important. We must implement that agreement now. You're right. There is also the problem of travellers returning from countries outside Europe. In principle, the border with non-Schengen countries remains closed, except with third countries on the so-called European white list of safe countries. For this list Celeval itself makes a second evaluation, giving an opinion on whether the borders can be opened with those countries and, if so, what colour code applies to those countries. You will find the final list on the website of the FPS Foreign Affairs. The rules and information are in principle clear. You signal important concerns about the enforcement and reality of things. I will not respond to that now, but I note that as an important pain point. Mrs Jiroflée, you mentioned communication to target groups. You're right for 200 %. I do think that many good things are happening in the cities under the impetus of the mayor with regard to all kinds of target groups. It seems to me that we are already working in 130 languages, when everything is added up. That remains a very important point of attention. When we talk about increasing professional communication, it is also about this. Mr De Caluwe, you had a number of questions about recontamination and the modification of the virus. I'm not answering right now, too, so I have to be careful. Science says that the corona virus we're dealing with right now is a virus that doesn't change itself to a significant extent. It seems to protect itself a little from changes. So we are not dealing with a virus that is rapidly changing to such an extent that the arsenal of tests and vaccination that we are introducing would no longer work. That's what I'm told. Recontamination is a reality in which we gradually gain insight. I am told that the picture so far is that re-contamination does not indeed give rise to serious disease. That is somewhat reassuring, but science is of course still evolving. You also had questions about the exemption from wearing a mouth mask. That is an important issue, but I can tell you right away that, perhaps contrary to what you would like or expect, we are not in the process of taking action in this area. I'm going to read out what's on my chip, because this is a rather specific issue. The exemption from wearing a mouth mask is actually covered by the safety rules applicable in schools or companies. Such safety rules, which lead to possible exemptions, are respectively the responsibility of occupational medicine, which ultimately leads to the Minister of Work or to the responsibility of school medicine, which leads to the Community. It is a bit similar to the personal protective equipment, for example safety shoes. If its use is necessary, then that necessity is a fact. A treating doctor may explain in a medical opinion why it is not for his or her patient, which is a relevant advice. These issues are regularly discussed with the general practitioners. However, it is not true that the issue of certificates of exemption from wearing a mask is now before the general practitioners for discussion, although this may be discussed in the coming weeks. Some people can't wear the mouth mask for medical reasons. They may receive a medical certificate from their doctor. Doctors have therapeutic freedom in this matter. They know their patients. I think they are aware of the importance of the mouth mask. However, for certain patients there may be grounds for granting an exemption. Frankly, I do not feel that we need to interfere strongly in this now, but we are all following up on it. A question, I believe from the Flemish Interest Group, is how many times have the pharmaceutical industry lobbied with me. Zero, so far. Is it gonna happen? Well, I am not very impressed by the pharmaceutical industry, nor by other lobbies. I would, of course, like to have a serious discussion with the pharmaceutical industry on the policies to be implemented and implemented. You know, for example, that the government agreement requires savings of EUR 150 million in the pharmaceutical sector. That needs to be discussed with the pharmaceutical industry. I do not really feel that we have decided anything about this under pressure from the pharmaceutical lobby. Whoever thinks I'm the lapdog of any lobby doesn't have the right address with me. We must, of course, organise good consultations with all those involved. That's what happens. In my opinion, the same rules should apply at European level. Mr President, it has all been very critical and very fast, but this seems to me to be a number of answers to the questions that have been asked. In response to questions from Mrs Fonck and other colleagues, I would like to point out that the general strategy is a series of measures which have been decided upon and which are aimed at the citizens. It is a national minimum base that will not be changed in the immediate future. The fact that complementary measures are being taken at the regional, local and sectoral levels can be welcomed. It's complicated for the citizen, but it's very welcome. It's necessary. The idea is to evaluate the arsenal put in place. On Friday there will be a concertation committee which, I hope, will be able to decide on the barometer which will create the general framework for our action. But, as I have already said in the past, we must be certain that this barometer can be hung on the wall and remain there. If further ad hoc decisions are necessary, it will be up to the Concerted Committee to analyse them. We must therefore not expect new measures at national level by Friday because we do not want to create confusion. Clarity in action is extremely important. The Commissioner has a specific mandate that is not linked to political decisions, but to preparation and implementation. Part of its mandate is the review of governance that has become very complicated. RAG, RMG, CELEVAL, etc. were discussed. All of this needs to be reviewed in order to establish strong and effective governance, as transparent as possible for the coming months. This is also part of the Commissioner's mandate. So far, Mr President, there have been a number of responses to this question. I hope I haven't made too many mistakes, because I haven't really been able to consult the pile of paper for me. Let me say that I also found the questions interesting, because of course I also learn from them the concerns of the Members and, of course, the whole population is behind them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u49	The people are behind the parliamentarians. That is a good expression and it is also important, namely Parliament as the representative of the people, of our inhabitants. You received a multitude of questions and you gave a multitude of answers. You have also answered some of the questions very precisely, including the nurses that have been asked about a few times. However, I will not cut off your reply to the government commissioner or the PCR tests. We now come to the Members' replies. Mrs Gijbels, you have the floor. You know how the real president works: 6 minutes for the three members of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u50	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Even though you have already given a number of answers, some have not been answered. I'll file it in writing. Among other things, it concerns the state of play with the wastewater screening, the lessons learned from the first wave and the problems of reading the PCR results of persons with a preliminary national registry number in the e-forms in the clinical labs. I'm glad the COVID barometer is finally getting there. It is very important that people have a certain grip on the situation, because they know what awaits them. Now they are often overwhelmed by measures. They also do not understand why they are being taken. With this you are taking a very big step towards clearer communication. I hope that we will be able to move away from the current ad hoc approach, that we will be able to anticipate this crisis and that we will base ourselves on the lessons learned from the first wave. I hope that there will be real work on data analysis and that we will get to work on it. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the virus mainly spreads with eruptions through individuals and not evenly by any infected person. Hopefully, there will be real monitoring of care providers and listening to what lives on the ground. They probably have good ideas themselves about how to relieve them as much as possible, so that they only have to provide care and do not have to deal with administrative tasks and phone calls or messages. I hope that out of the box can be thought, if necessary. The Federal Test Platform bis should, allegedly, be able to handle at least 2,000 tests a day. It would be 16,000, but if we count them by the 50,000 that the clinical labs can handle, we won't get to the promised 90,000 tests a day. What additional measures can be taken to increase the test capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u51	Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your answers, because I have been waiting for many of them for six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u52	You have to write that down, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I conclude that the rapid tests and antigen tests may be used and that the reimbursement will be examined in conjunction with the test strategy. I am very pleased that you refer to my fellow pharmacists for the rapid tests and I assume that you will have them sold in the pharmacy. In fact, it is most useful to have sold the material for health care, which has been screened, yourself. For remdesivir there is of course no official refund yet, but our patients do not carry the cost of 2,000 euros for a cure themselves. What's my concern? There is sufficient stock at the moment, but there is no overstock. Is there a protocol and is followed by doctors in hospitals, so that only the patients who benefit most are treated with remdesivir. Minister, I understand that you have not yet been fully involved in answering the question about flu vaccines, but there is a real problem in that regard. My fellow chemists are running out of stock. The occupational health services vaccinate, but do not register their patients. There are therefore patients who do not belong to the risk group. If there's anything that should be followed up, the vaccine really goes to the at-risk patients. So the registration is really important. With regard to the COVID-19 vaccine, you say that there is an agreement with Johnson&Johnson.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u55	Actually, not yet, but we are committed to the agreement being negotiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u56	You are committed to the agreement of the European Commission. Can we also see that agreement? I remember that your group considers transparency to be very important in pharmaceutical matters. I think it is absolutely important for us as representatives of the people, but even more so for the people, to be able to look at these clauses, for example the immunity clause at AstraZeneca. Minister, you mentioned the savings of EUR 150 million in the pharmaceutical industry, but I read that € 250 million would be saved on medicines. What amount are we talking about? We exceed the budget for medicines by approximately EUR 300 million every year. We are actually talking about EUR 450 or 550 million. I think that is a very important point that should be clarified in a subsequent discussion. What do you mean today: is it 150 or 250 million euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u57	I would remind you that a further round of questions on the flu vaccine will be organised next week. That was announced by committee chairman Warmoes earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u58	Minister, I did install the Corona app. I've also looked at what it says. If one gets a red screen, if one has had a high risk contact, one gets instructions. I was curious what those instructions would be, especially out of concern for the general practitioners. If a red screen is the order: go to your GP, that is of course good, but I hope that the GPs are aware of this and that through that app we can get as much administration from the GPs as possible. That was mostly my concern. I understand that my second question about the general practitioners was very concrete, but if you can say in one of the following sessions what the precise guidelines are for the quarantine of roommates of people who are being tested, this is certainly useful in view of the discussion between employer and employee. I hear your intention to proceed quickly with mental health policy. In this light, I would like to draw your attention to the resolution and to our repeated concern in committee for mental health care workers. Staff have often been unable to rest last summer and are now flooded again with questions for patient care. We are on committee absolutely concerned about their mental well-being. The debate on the flu vaccine will be discussed next week. In any case, I am picking up the same signals as Mrs Depoorter, that the pharmacists are currently not getting the necessary supplies for the patients at risk, while companies would not have a stock to release them until mid-November. That is contrary to the advice of the Supreme Health Council. But I understand that we will come back to that next week. Mr Hennuy has a proposal on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u59	Mr. Speaker, Minister, obviously we have a lot of questions about vaccines against coronavirus or influenza virus. Mr President, would it be possible to invite Mr. De Cuyper, the deputy head of the AFMPS, to participate in our commission next week to answer a series of questions about vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u60	About exactly what?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u61	Mr. Could the deputy head of the AFMPS, De Cuyper, be present next week at our committee meeting to participate in a debate on vaccines against coronavirus and influenza virus? I refer here to a suggestion made by President Warmoes this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u62	Mrs H annoyance, we will discuss the appropriateness of this invitation with Minister and President Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers, although many of them have not received a really concrete answer. I am thinking in particular of the situation of general practitioners. I hear Pedro Falcon has launched a strategic task force testing. It was more than time! I also hear that the Consultation Committee will meet this Friday to take a series of decisions on barometers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that general practitioners are really at the heart of the decision-making process and that it is very important to consult them before making these decisions. Indeed, if, as you say, these barometers will be pinned to the walls for months, the general practitioners must be in line with the decisions that will be made because we lack the means. In jargon, we call it lead management. It is therefore very important, Minister, that the decisions you make are fair in terms of the best possible process. They must also be as fair as possible for staff in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u64	First of all, minister, thank you for this exercise that was not simple. I must recognize a message that is unmistakable. The latter relieves me, in particular, of the strengthening of testing and the desire to extend it to antigenic tests, which will relieve the front line and the testing centres. This must lead to the rapid achievement of the target of 90,000 tests. The objective must not only be to test widely, but also to achieve the results within 24 hours, ideally. As for general practitioners, I am my colleague Mrs. H annoyance. They need a message like "Now we will listen to you and hear you. We'll relieve you now." Indeed, they are really exposed and will have a front-line job to do with all the winter diseases that are coming. I think they need reactivity and a clear and supportive message from you. I very much appreciate the communication you made about us and the communication you had about the citizens at the press conference a few days ago. This shows more than ever the need to have clear communication with citizens and to speak with one voice. Differing opinions, reinforcements of measures or parallel communications from federated entities or other levels of authority still raise questions for the time being. I believe that it is really essential, in order to regain the citizen's support, that a person more than ever embodies the voice of decisions taken, with difficulty, at times to embody the responsibility for these decisions. We need it. It really takes a channel of communication for citizens to join and stand in solidarity. Thank you, in any case, for this first exercise. You gave me a sense of clear communication and action. I wish you all the best for the rest of the day. I just have one last question. It's a good thing the barometer arrives on Friday. On the other hand, I did not see the fact that taking new measures now would lead to misunderstanding. I still thought that the Friday consensus committee could take action. Could he do so if the barometer were in effect, or would he do so independently of that barometer? Will any action be taken on Friday, Minister? Thank you, anyway, for the work you have done today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u65	Mr Minister, I thank you for the answers you have given, although, of course, we realize that at this stage it is not yet possible to obtain more details when we would really like to have more precise answers. We will not fail to monitor the situation and its evolution, especially when we see that certain procedures are suspended due to adverse effects but which are clearly inherent in vaccination and tests carried out. We are all waiting for a vaccine, but we know that some procedures have to be followed and that it takes time anyway. In my turn, I also wanted to tell you that you have succeeded in this exercise of trying to answer all these questions all azimuts. We thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have noticed that, as you announced, you have given a lot of rather general answers. Although I have received a number of answers to a number of specific questions, many specific questions have not been answered. Thank you very much for your honesty with the announcement at the beginning and I give you the time to study your files. I have three comments to make. The first concerns the proverbial lynching that took place in plenary last Thursday. You may not remember that, but if you review the recordings, you will undoubtedly notice. I'm glad you're as outraged as you were last Thursday. I am certainly pleased that it should not only be about Flemish mayors in Aalst. Second. As for the cafés and the closing hour, please explain to me the three c's:confined contact, crowded and close, to say it in beautiful Dutch. As far as I am concerned, that could certainly be an explanation for the place, but the correlation with the closing hour is not quite clear to me, I must admit. I am sure you will explain this later. Finally, you say that the FAGG is working on the rapid tests and that we do not want to lag behind, but I note that millions of rapid tests are ordered abroad - Germany and the Netherlands. In the case of the Netherlands, this is because their PCR tests are not up-to-date, if you might have wanted to give that answer. In this way, we are threatening to go after the facts, because our neighbouring countries are already ordering rapid tests. Maybe you shouldn't dawdle with that for too long after all? Those were my three comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for the answers to our questions. I was under the impression that some of your questions were somewhat ludicrous. I would like to talk about this, for example, in relation to the distribution plan. Of course, the virus does not take into account language or boundaries or even status. However, one will only end up in a French-speaking hospital as Fleming, or non-French-speaking hospital, or vice versa, where the care providers do not understand you or you do not understand the care provider. That's not something to be ridiculous about, because that can sometimes be life-threatening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u68	I didn't. I didn't ridicul that. I said in my reply that Dutch-speaking patients are preferably placed in Flanders and French-speaking patients in the French-speaking part of the country. That's exactly what I said. That may have escaped you a little by my speed, but that was the concrete answer to your question. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u69	I understand that, but your introduction was somewhat cynical. Let me put it that way. As far as the pharmaceutical lobby is concerned, it would be very bad if you were a week in the post office if you were already contacted by that pharmaceutical lobby on a daily basis. That would be too bad indeed. However, my question dates back to 29 September 2020 when there was no government. The question was therefore addressed to Mrs De Block and her cabinet, who had been in post for a long time. However, I understand from your answer that you will not be a lapdog of the pharmaceutical lobby, which I naturally welcome. Nevertheless, I am still starving to the point that you will not be able to take this with you at EU level, or that you will not take the lead on behalf of Belgium at EU level, where the big decisions are taking place. You have made it quite clear that you are also of the opinion that that decision does not have to be made there. However, I hope that you will be able to draw that card openly at European level. In my opinion, the problem is not so much with the labs as with the tests and the division into three categories. You claimed you did, but I don't entirely agree with your claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u70	Mrs. Sneppe, can you try to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u71	Mr President, I will try to be very brief. However, it is important. Mr. Secretary, the labs are analysing the tests. The Ct value comes from that analysis anyway. So it's a little hard to give that value. You are right to say that reporting to general practitioners and specialists may be a problem. I can totally go along with that. However, what you say about the labs, I doubt it. The self-tests must be included in the test strategy. After all, these tests may be the key to tackling the whole of the current crisis. If people can test themselves very easily at home in a way like a pregnancy test works, albeit with saliva, we can play very quickly and briefly on the ball and thus contain the virus. In my view, that is the intention. I hope you will be able to take this with you to your many conferences on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u72	Minister, I would like to thank you for the explanation, but a few questions were not answered. I refer to my question on the European opinions and stocks for the Member States. I will certainly return this question in writing in order to receive an answer. I would also like an answer to the question on the composition of Celeval, which is not so recent. Then there was the question about the contradictory opinions. Mrs Creemers mentioned it earlier. I hear in the field that this raises a very serious problem. I spoke to some general practitioners yesterday and they told me that they are getting an overload of information and that it is very difficult for them to follow which measures are now effective. Given the current pressure on the workplace, they asked me if I could ask if clear communication could be brought to the first line, to ensure that they provide the right information to the patients. I have also heard that you will be strongly committed to communicating with the citizens. I hope that you will also inform that first line about the corona measures. You indicated the priority target groups for the flu vaccination, but I didn't hear the caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u73	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u74	Okay, thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I am still hungry for many questions. Today we have the highest incidence rate in Europe after the Czech Republic. For months, we have been slow to make health decisions, particularly with regard to improving the testing capacity so that it is done in time. Minister, your explanation today does not reassure me. You say that a task force testing is being set up, but it seems to me that, since the end of April, we have had an inter-federal testing and tracing committee which was initially chaired by Mr Emmanuel André and which is now chaired by Karine Moykens. Didn't they do anything? Consideration is now being given to the possibility of purchasing quick tests, but this is still too late. Too little, too late [[.]] We stay in the same vein and it's not reassuring at all. I asked you about the contamination site. You then recalled the WHO's 3 Cs: Crowded, Confined and Close. It seems to me that there is a fourth C missing, namely the figures. We do not have these figures today. Where are we? You didn't answer. When we see that our public transport is crowded, it seems to me dangerous to let people take the train, for example. The SNCB controllers are warning me because they must continue to control everyone's tickets in these crowded trains. I'm really very worried and I didn't get any answers. With regard to the health care staff and the need to deal with the second wave in hospitals, you say that it is only on 1 January that the budgetary effects will arise. However, we must be ready today, and the staff of hospitals and rest homes are not ready to take on a second wave. For example, medical reserves must be re-mobilised urgently. Neither did you give me an answer. When I hear that people, who are supposed to be quarantined after high-risk contact, are still put at work because there is a lack of staff in the rest homes, that doesn't reassure me at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u76	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. As far as my question on the certificates of exemption for wearing a mouth mask is concerned, I have the feeling that there are effective doctors who are too easy to respond to patients' demands for such a certificate. For example, the HR service provider Liantis has prepared an overview of instructions, because he received a lot of questions from employers. In essence, these directives suggest that dialogue with employees and prescribers should be encouraged to consider whether the problem can be solved in this way. However, I am afraid that is not enough. The mouth mask is clearly an element in the prevention policy that is important when, for example, insufficient distance can be maintained and cases where it is impossible to maintain that distance are becoming more and more widespread. That is why it is really important that we do not allow too easy exemptions for wearing mouth masks. I would like to ask you once again to consider communicating to the general practitioners on this matter in order to make them aware that this is certainly not too lightly handled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answers. I don't have any further questions. The only thing I would like to emphasise is the problem of enforcement when entering our country. I would urge you to take that very quickly with your colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u78	Minister, you are asking us to have patience! I can have all the patience of the world provided that it works on the ground and that the devices, which must be present, are able to do so. Because the virus, very clearly, will not wait for us. He's been galloping and he's been galloping for weeks. You've been a minister for 15 days. I can understand a lot of things, but this shows only one reality: it's been weeks and weeks - especially during the summer, it's not the fact of not warning or having, with others, pulled the alarm bell - that all this should have been much more effective. On the device, I understand that there is a common base and layers of federated entities, but put yourself in the place of citizens! I think you do. These successive announcements in all directions do not bring cohesion or support. Perhaps I can appeal to you to ensure that the ads are structured, coordinated across all levels of power. It is in the interest of the fight against this epidemic. For the three Cs, of which I am familiar with scientific literature, a refining must be produced. An encoding of some data in the tracing would allow for more appropriate action. Bars are indeed crowded at certain times, as are public transport. As for the testing strategy, you ask us for patience. However, it has been weeks since that mechanism had entered into force. I hope that we will quickly bet on the combination of PCR swabs, for symptomatic patients and for those who have come into contact with carriers, and next to that salivary tests. Let me tell you that it will be necessary to explain clearly who should do what and by what tests. Let us not make the same mistakes as in February: let us not wait too long to order, as many countries command massively. All this to say that you're going to have to give a famous throttle to repair all the weak links. The appointment of a Coronavirus Commissioner is a good thing, but he was already working at the Public Health FPS. We've created a lot of bodies and structures, we've used dozens of consultants - and we're adding another layer! What we need is operational efficiency in line with the ground, not extra layers. I hope that's how you work. Finally, you have not answered a whole series of questions. Let me tell you that as far as long VOCID patients are concerned, which reach about 10%, your silence is somewhat painful for them. Minister, I ask you to act in their favour, but also for those who will suffer the same evil tomorrow. This is a real problem on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers and for your voluntarism. I am thinking in particular of the future setting up of a barometer. This seems essential in order to set us a course marked by clear phases, instead of - as we have seen so far - decisions taken in improvisation. On the other hand, I do not follow you when you say that the decisions taken by the other levels of power do not cause any confusion among the citizens. We see that this is not true: it is simply incomprehensible to them. As far as testing is concerned, it is very good to put in place a new task force to strengthen our capacity for sampling and analysis, except that in the meantime we still see a complete gap between the government's announcements and the means to achieve it. For example, I didn't hear you at all about the shortage of reagents in some hospitals. Yet the alarm bell is fired. This situation is very serious because as long as this testing capability is not operational, it is not possible to isolate the patients. As a result, drastic measures are being taken to close some schools and businesses. We can't afford it anymore. What is needed is not an umpteenth working group, but a large-scale screening and, why not, with the mobilization of mobile teams. I had also appealed to Minister De Backer in April. It's October and nothing has ever been done about it. As far as ventilation is concerned, you rightly say that confined and poorly ventilated spaces are situations at risk. Therefore, I do not understand why, on the basis of this observation, ventilation is not considered to be a new barrier to be observed. Will this item be discussed at the Consultation Committee that you announced this Friday? For the rest, I share my colleague Fonck's great disappointment with regard to long-term VOCID patients. Over a month and a half ago, I've been trying to get an answer from Minister De Block first and from you today. This category represents nearly 11,000 patients who are now unable to work full-time. They are exhausted by the disease and have to spend money from their own pockets for sometimes very expensive medical examinations, or for medicines. In the meantime, they do not obtain any recognition or intervention from the State. This is unacceptable. I really expect you to do something about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u80	Mr. Secretary, would you like to replicate? As an experienced minister, you know that Parliament has the last word. After your reply, Members who wish to do so will have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u81	Mr President, I do not want to prolong the discussion, but there are a number of things I want to correct. I'll do that punctually. I am aware that I have not really answered the stress questions that are among the front-line physicians. It is true that general practitioners are in an extremely busy and difficult situation. I believe that the finding is correct. I did not really provide a precise answer to the questions on this because I did not want to improvise. Helping general practitioners in particular depends on the strategy and, among other things, on the testing strategy. I didn't elaborate anything on that. The same applies to long-term patients. I could have given a very long answer, because I have a two-page note. I'm sorry, Mrs. Fonck. I did not do so because I would have read a fairly technical note proving that efforts are being made both in terms of information for doctors and care providers and for long-term VOCID patients. No status is granted; there is no status on the basis of a general pathology. Hospitals are organizing the follow-up. So I had a very long note, but it seemed difficult to sum it up. It is not true, however, that my administration or even the actors in the field have forgotten the long-lasting VOCID-19 patients. But please excuse me for not reacting. I'm being asked if any further steps will be taken. The aim is to convene the Consultation Committee on Friday and to reach a discussion on the barometer. Of course, if necessary, we will take measures that must be consistent with this tool. Otherwise, there would be a somewhat schizophrenic situation – which we must avoid. In any case, I do not want to prejudge what will happen in the next few days. In short, we have a clear objective: to decide what is the barometer. If necessary, we will take one-off and immediate measures, but they must remain consistent with the barometer philosophy. That makes sense to me. I would like to make two more points. I did not respond to the question about waste water detection, but I had not heard that question. That'll probably be a mistake for me. There is a lot of material about this detection and that is potentially very interesting. Personally and intuitively, I think that detection via wastewater in the rapid acceleration and spread of the virus may not be the most relevant slope right now. At this stage this is not the most relevant piste to develop or to pay very much attention to. It's not the most current slope either. However, there is certainly a great deal to be said about it. Someone said that the sum for the federal platform bis comes to at least 16,000 and that it doesn't reach 90,000. It's at least 2,000 per platform. We also want to strengthen the capacity of the others, if possible. I agree with one of my colleagues who has made a critical remark that the capacity of the test is, of course, an essential problem of reduction capacity. Hence the need to develop a sound global strategy. 90,000 testing is indeed a goal. The federal platform BIS is part of that, but it is not the only way to achieve that goal. I just wanted to detail the federal platform BIS in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u82	Members will now have the last word. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that time is even more limited now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for the additional explanation. I hope that my questions about the waste water have also arrived at you. This may not be the most appropriate strategy at this stage, but I wanted to know what the state of play is and whether we can use it if it is necessary and useful. On the website of Sciensano read that apparently this is still not about to happen and that no general analyses have yet been made for the whole territory. I hope this will come soon as it seems to me a very interesting tool. We need to scale up to over 16,000 tests, and we're gonna strengthen the clinical labs. That is very good because with 90,000 tests a day we are at Danish capacity. That's where they're at. The bottleneck will be the reduction capacity, because we need to find the necessary staff to do so. I hope you will look at the possibilities together with the regions. I would urge you to think out of the box in this crisis situation because it is extremely important to get a good picture of the spread.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u84	Mr President, I would like to add a small bottleneck, namely the reagents and the swaps that we will need to be able to obtain to a sufficient extent. I would ask your attention to that. Your predecessors have often overlooked that. As far as the flu vaccines are concerned, you have not given any further answers, but it seems that that is still coming. As far as the COOVID vaccine is concerned, I did not receive an answer. Will you make that clause transparent? Will you ensure that our citizens know what has been agreed between Europe, Belgium and the producer? The registration is also very important. I urge our healthcare providers to ensure that those who have been vaccinated or not are registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u85	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, thank you for providing these additional information, particularly with respect to general practitioners. Indeed, their situation is linked to the testing strategy and the process that will be put in place. We will be attentive to Friday's decisions. With respect to long-term VOCID patients, I understand that you have an adequate response. Perhaps we could ask the firm to send us the written answer. Patients are asking us for specific answers. We could already make some progress on this issue with the answer elements contained in your notes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u86	Mr President, we are happy to return the minutes of the Flemish Interest to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u88	I hear it's a pleasure to accept. Mrs Farih, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u89	Mr President, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u90	Mr. President, I'm still hungry. The minister is not answering my questions. I don't know what's going on. So, on the numbers, minister, you didn't answer. The same applies to my reflections: how are we going to increase the testing capacity and get the results within 24 hours? I have in front of me a dispatch of biologists who say that this is not going at all at the moment, that there is a lack of reagents, etc. and that the plan you are announcing would not be operational until the end of November at the earliest. I don't understand why you're not answering my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u91	Mr de Caluwe, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u92	Mr President, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u93	Mevrouw Jiroflée?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u94	Mr President, I am fully satisfied for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u95	Mrs. Fonck?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u96	Minister, thank you for your little supplementary answer. On the subject of long-term VOCID patients, we are not going to get into the debate now. Many things are obviously done and the caregivers obviously take care of these patients as best they can. But I can also tell you that a whole series of problematic questions arise. I am at your disposal if you wish. I have a series of suggestions for you. I worked with the patients involved, but also with the caregivers. On the strategy, more broadly, I mean figures such as 90,000 tests a day, etc. Is it measured that today we do not have sufficient personnel capacity to take on the 40,000 tests wherever possible? This happens on both the sampling and laboratory sides. We do not have enough staff to ensure that the chain works both in terms of sampling speed and testing. At the level of tracing, we cannot ensure that all suspicious people are tested and then isolated. In fact, this whole system must be able to be effective on the ground. I want to hear about 90,000 tests, but if we could already have an operationally effective device for 40,000 tests, with all the necessary equipment, especially human resources, doctors and nurses, even in laboratories and tracing, and if we could count on the effective isolation of all carriers, we would have already taken a big step. It is these very concrete and operational aspects that we are missing today, Minister. I really want to plead with you about this. Let us stop the major plans on paper and decline our action with very simple objectives that must be able to be achieved effectively! That is how we will defeat the virus and the pandemic and try to gallop as fast as we need today. So action!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u97	The sound wasn't so good, but I think we understood the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u98	Minister, thank you for your additional information. But if you tell us that you had a two-page note to answer our questions about the management of long-term VOCID patients, I would like to have it available as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-commissie-ic277x.u99	Colleagues, we've done the rounds. Mr Minister, you have passed your first topical debate on COOVID-19. Improvements are possible from all sides, both from the Members of Parliament and from the answers, but it was a good start and hopefully we will continue together to combat the corona virus. With all of us, it's got to work.
