ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u1	Mr Minister, the reason for this question is public aid to the pharmaceutical companies, because there are a lot of billions of aid going to that sector. This has to do, inter alia, with the exemption from the transfer of the holding levy for R&D. The Court of Auditors' report examined these exemptions and mapped them nicely. The Court of Auditors stated in 2018 that there are difficulties between, on the one hand, BELSPO, which is required to give a binding opinion, and, on the other hand, the FPS Finance, for the application of that exemption. There is a discussion on the definition of R&D, as well as on diploma conditions. In this context, I would like to ask a number of questions. It appears that no controls were carried out in 2018. Can you clarify why? Can you also explain the discussions and disagreements between the FOD and BELSPO? Did these disagreements ultimately lead to less aid being applied for or unlawful aid being granted? Mr Minister, could you also explain what happened in 2019 to allow checks to be carried out again? Can you also give an update on the checks in 2019? Have there been checks again and what was the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u2	Mr Matheï, many companies apply several exemptions from the transfer of withholding tax. In order for my administration to operate efficiently, the various exemptions from the transfer of withholding tax are jointly subject to tax control. In 2018, my administration was waiting for clarification on the regulation of night and shift work in consultation with my predecessor and after consulting civil society. As the publication of the administrative directives took place later than initially foreseen, the checks on the different exemptions from the transfer of farm levy were only launched in 2019 and such checks are also planned to be carried out in 2020. The publication of the administrative directives ensures equal treatment of taxpayers and increases legal certainty for businesses. Disagreements between my administration and BELSPO originate in BELSPO's own interpretation of the relevant tax laws. As with all the business advance relief measures, the taxable person must submit the application himself by means of a second declaration stating only the total amount of the taxable base and the total amount of the exempt business advance charge without any detail. It is impossible to avoid unlawful applications. Of the checks started in 2019, 536 were closed on 12 December 2019 and 162 were still in progress. The result of the checks at that date is €15.5 million. No breakdown of that result can be made of the different exemptions from the transfer of withholding tax. The abovementioned checks do not merely refer to the exemption from the transfer of farm levy for research and development. 133 audit missions are already planned for 2020 on the exemption from corporate withholding tax. Finally, I can tell you that the control directives have been drawn up on the basis of the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. It is certainly good to hear that after the non-controls in 2018, the checks were restarted in 2019 and that controls are also planned in 2020. This is a good thing in itself, because the total amount involved is about EUR 2.3 billion of exemptions for R & D and shiftwork. It is only natural for checks to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u4	Madam Chair, Minister, this issue was tabled some time ago. I'll just make it clear. You know that the largest employer in the province of Luxembourg is the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, since 45,000 frontier workers work there. It is also known that the 24-day limit for the 48-day campaign may one day evolve for work outside the territory of frontier workers. In the meantime, the tax authorities are hunting for frontier workers to see if they are actually working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. All the evidence may be adduced, but the assessment of the evidence also depends on the taxing officer, who sometimes considers that his or her conviction is made and, at other times, considers that it is not made, which leads to prosecution in the courts, etc. Everybody's wasting time. This also disturbs Luxembourg employers who tend to hire French or German workers rather because of the worries that the Belgian tax authorities cause them. In general, a very large majority of frontier workers, in my opinion more than 95%, work well in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Maybe there's only a few unsettlers. Minister, could you please clarify what evidence the tax authorities have admitted, which is also known to be using modern means to try to locate people, which is a problem with GDPR? Could you indicate what evidence is sufficient? A vade mecum exists but it is not always appreciated by the taxing agent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u5	Madam Chair, Mr. Piedboeuf, proof of entitlement to exemption may be provided by the taxpayer by any means of law other than the oath. It is up to the supervising officer to determine whether or not the evidence provided by the taxpayer is sufficient to demonstrate the physical presence in the territory of another State. The documents to be provided for proof in order to obtain the conviction of the taxing agent differ according to the activity carried out by the worker. For employees who carry out an activity for which presence in the workplace is indispensable, e.g. persons for whom it is impossible to carry out their activity elsewhere (chequer in a department store, employed at the counter of a bank or insurance company, etc.).), it is sufficient to present a contract of employment in which it is clearly stated which functions are performed and where they are to be performed. If this is not explicitly included in the contract, an employer's certificate must be attached. For employees who carry out an activity for which attendance at a fixed place of work is not required, if not at all probable, or an activity for which the work may be performed in a fixed place of work but may also require work on the move, at home or elsewhere, an employment contract or an employer's certificate is not sufficient. Such persons must be able to provide annual proof of their physical presence in the territory of the other State. This evidence can be provided in the course of carrying out their last activities. These include, for example, the employment contract, the payroll after withholding tax, nominal score sheets, etc. Documents that would no longer be registered as a result of the GDPR are therefore part of a cluster of elements that are intended to bring the comptroller's conviction to bear. This list is, of course, not exhaustive. As already stated, the evidence will differ depending on the nature of the activity. It should be noted that our screening and control strategy also aims to build on new technologies that both reduce risks and take this risk reduction into account in our control approach. Here we are thinking particularly of technologies for geolocation. This strategy will also reduce the administrative burden on the taxpayer when it comes to proving its presence abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, you're going to geolocation taxpayers, which is a bit of a problem for me, but be it! In any case, I note that there are developments with regard to employees under fixed-term contracts. For managers, I see that this is a little more difficult. For the latter, we will plead together – I know that you are attentive to this question – in favour of an extension of 24 to 48 days, in order to alleviate somewhat the situation of business managers in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg who live in Belgium. Indeed, we have every interest in our citizens being able to work calmly with a partner such as the Grand Duchy who gives work with proper remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u7	Mr Minister, according to a joint report by Europol and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, EUR 30 billion would be spent annually in the European Union on the purchase of drugs. In particular, our country would be one of the main hubs of drug and cocaine trafficking. In 2018, 50 tons of cocaine were seized at the port of Antwerp, which accounts for one third of the seizures of this drug throughout Europe. The resale value of this amount of cocaine on the market would amount to €2.5 billion. You'll certainly confirm that. In addition, profits from drug trafficking are laundered in various cash-producing sectors, such as distribution or the Horeca. Another method of laundering would be to invest such capital in real estate, luxury cars or in buying gold or diamonds, perhaps also in Antwerp. Knowing that, according to customs, only 10 per cent of narcotics passing through the port of Antwerp are seized, this undoubtedly means that a significant part of the remaining 90 per cent of narcotics is sold on the market and that the profits from these sales are laundered. In order to remedy this problem, the objective of Customs would be, in particular, to have the capacity, in the long term, to scan 100% of containers arriving at the port of Antwerp. In addition, the illicit drug trade and its laundering benefit criminal organisations often involved in serious acts of violence throughout Europe. Minister, what steps are your FPS taking to address this specific issue of money laundering from drug trafficking? Do you have an estimate of the amount of money laundered? In this context, what cooperation do you have with the General Administration of Customs and Excise? What about cooperation between Member States of the European Union on these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u8	My colleague, in addition to being a country of destination, Belgium is also a transit country for most illegal substances, as well as a country of production. In terms of drug seizure in Belgium, 2018 was a record year: 50 tons of cocaine were seized. Their resale value on the market is estimated at €2.5 billion. The amount seized of heroin, cannabis and opiates is also increasing. Several networks of traffickers are active, generating a significant amount of money to be laundered. The importance of this criminal threat is reflected in the increasing number of cases transmitted by CTIF in recent years. Illicit drug trafficking is the third form of crime underlying money laundering in 2018, in terms of cases transmitted by CTIF to the judicial authorities. I have the number of files sent here, but I'll give you the tables. To combat this phenomenon, various initiatives have been developed, in which CTIF has been able to provide its expertise in financial matters. Since 2018, CTIF has been a partner of the Stroomplan in Antwerp. The Stroomplan aims to promote the cooperation of the various partners in exchange of information within the framework of the comprehensive approach to the drug problem in the port of Antwerp, including both criminal, fiscal and administrative aspects as well as labour law. In concrete terms, a multidisciplinary team named Kali has been set up. It is composed of police officers from the PJF and local drug research, reinforced by financial investigators from ECOFIN and strategic analysts for a broader analysis of phenomena. CTIF participates in the ad hoc consultation between the Kali team and the other competent departments coordinated monthly by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Similarly, within the framework of the Canal Plan, CTIF is working with the Brussels police services on the financial aspects of terrorism and drug trafficking. The overall Drugs Plan is oriented towards a multidisciplinary approach to criminal structures active in drug trafficking in the Brussels borough. In this context, CTIF is mainly involved in aspects related to the laundering of criminal organisations, which not only have an impact on the local economy, but also have international aspects. Faced with the magnitude of this phenomenon, the strategic division of CTIF carried out a strategic analysis in 2018 on the topic of money laundering from drug trafficking. Strategic analysis has identified various bleaching techniques, ranging from simple to sophisticated, and involving the various stages of bleaching. The results of this analysis were discussed with the anti-money laundering officials of the large banks in Belgium. A summary of the main findings was published by CTIF in its latest Annual Activity Report (2018) on pages 11 and 12. This should enable entities subject to the Act of 18 September 2017 to better detect suspicious transactions related to the laundering of money derived from illicit drug trafficking. On a daily basis, CTIF is also working with the General Administration of Customs and Excise to process reports of suspicion received from entities subject to the Act of September 18, 2017. To facilitate this collaboration, the General Administration of Customs and Excise, to which the CTIF may request any information it deems useful for the performance of its mission, has appointed a liaison officer within it to whom the CTIF may contact when it wishes to request customs information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u9	Minister, thank you for this long and comprehensive response. Belgium is at the heart of Europe. Antwerp is a huge port. It is clear that we are more subject than others to this kind of traffic. Obviously, you are doing everything you can to try to combat this phenomenon. Regardless of the political party, we all have a responsibility for drug trafficking and money laundering. I welcome what is being put in place and hope that we can go further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u10	Question No 55002132C by Mr. Van Hees is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u11	Madam President, Minister, we recently had an exchange of views with Febelfin. This showed that all Members of Parliament, as well as the dome of banks and banks, believe that there should be enough ATMs and that they should be sufficiently geographically spread. However, it is noted that the number of ATMs is decreasing and that the costs charged to the bank for services are increasing. Also before 2020, a number of banks announced tariff increases, for example for printing copies and even for collecting money. This is happening more and more because banks are closing more and more offices due to the emergence of digitisation and online banking. This is a problem that we need to take to heart, because this is problematic for the provision of services to citizens who are not familiar with digital payments and banking, and there are still a few. You undoubtedly know that Test Purchase launched a petition in February 2019 to stop bank charges and take actions. In the meantime, that petition has produced more than 20,000 signatures. While banks increasingly want to evolve into cashless or less cash payments, some consumers do not want that at all. This is evident from several studies, in which 1 in 3 of our citizens want to continue to pay cash. On top of that, there's another security issue. If people are not sufficiently informed about the dangers of online banking, there are some risks involved. This is confirmed by a professor of data encryption and computer security, who stresses the importance of strong passwords and warns against online scams. Today we could read a headline in the Gazette of Antwerp from a businessman whose accounts were looted by his daughter using the Vinted app to sell second-hand clothing. We must not underestimate the scope of such reports, because many people will see in them the confirmation that this is a problem. Test Purchase made five recommendations, including the establishment of a think platform under the supervision of the National Bank, in which consumers and representatives from the financial sector can reflect on the future of financial services and the expansion of basic banking services. For sp.a this seems to be a good initiative to think about how we can keep basic banking services accessible to everyone. A large basic banking service is a must for us. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What do you think of the suggestion of Test Purchase to create a thinking platform led by the National Bank? Have any action been taken to create and make this platform work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u12	There are a number of developments in the banking landscape that we cannot overlook. The banks shut down offices. Customers use less cash and pick up less money. Ploof squats are getting three-star. It is my conviction that we should continue to focus primarily on encouraging electronic payments. That is what the majority of the Belgians are asking for, as surveys show. However, recent international comparisons, including from the ECB, show that Belgium scores worse in terms of electronic payments than other similar neighbouring countries. If a new thinking platform is to be created, this should be the main issue. How can we ensure that electronic payments become more settled in Belgium? What actions should we take for this? In addition, consumers who do not want to pay or do not want to pay cashless should not be left in the cold. However, in January 2020, the four major banks announced intensive cooperation on the operation of their ATMs. Through this collaboration they will be able to build a more optimized network. Now in some places there may be a little too much and in other remote places there may be too few vending machines. The new network, which will be deployed from 2021 onwards, will provide a vending machine less than five kilometres for 95% of Belgians. As a service for traders, the possibilities of depositing cash at these machines are also extended. Five smaller banks are now working on a similar initiative to exploit their ATMs together. They are already starting this year but for the time being each retain their identity. Allow me to await the roll-out of both initiatives before considering measures in this area. If it turns out that the new networks still have blind spots or do not get off the ground, action can still be taken. A basic consumer banking service that requires the banks to provide a guaranteed service already exists today. The relevant legislation was included in book VII of the Code of Economic Law. For questions regarding the possible extension of this basic banking service, please contact the Minister of Economy and Consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I assume you also wanted to say that it is not a story or a story but an en-en-story. It is clear that electronic payments will take an increasingly important place in our society. However, we must not forget those citizens who do not yet pay or who do not yet pay electronically. This is what you've been meaning to report, I suspect. We must ensure that they too can continue to enjoy a basic banking service. I will take your suggestion on asking a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs to heart. The basic banking service must go along with its time and be adapted to modern times. With regard to the initiatives that the four major banks will take in terms of the geographical distribution of ATMs and the other intention of the'smaller' banks, which will also take similar initiatives, I have understood from the hearing and from the words of various committee members that it would not be bad if the various parliamentary groups were to discuss how Parliament can manage this and ensure that there is a proper geographical distribution of ATMs across the territory. We will take the initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the program law of 1 July 2016 provides for a tax exemption of up to €6,250 in annual income for associative workers and those in the collaborative economy. Collaborative platforms can apply to the Finance FPS for approval so that these collaborators benefit from this favourable tax status. The food delivery platforms Deliveroo and Uber Eats successfully submitted this request at the beginning of 2018. However, in order to benefit from this tax framework, an agreement between two individuals – for example, between the customer and the courier – must govern the exchange of services. The tax authorities took a rather surprising step backwards by asking these two companies to comply with this rule in order to continue to benefit from licensing. Besides, I've already asked you about that. Deliveroo has reacted by adapting its way of working, even if the working conditions of the couriers remain frankly inadequate in our view, but it is Minister Muylle who I have to question in the Social Affairs Committee as regards this aspect, which is the subject of a judicial procedure. On the other hand, to my knowledge, Uber Eats did not react. The situation is therefore, again, very delicate for delivery providers, especially since many of them work for several platforms at once. In concrete terms, if a deliverer makes money via a platform that is compliant and another that is not, he will not benefit from the status of the collaborative economy and will have to submit to a tax regularization of up to very high amounts. As such, the necessary and correct information should be sent to delivery agents to ensure that they do not suffer serious financial consequences. Minister, what is the status of the discussions between the administration and Uber Eats on this subject? Is there a solution? If so, in what form? Finally, what platforms are currently licensed under the collaborative economy regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u15	Madam Chair, Mr. Vanden Burre, I remember that when we drafted this law on collaborative platforms, you were quite in favour of it. This law applies to casual work. There is a tendency to globalize what is happening in collaborative platforms with elements that do not affect casual work. However, when it comes to casual work, the tax treatment is completely different. Everything that falls within the scope of this law is casual work. Yet I sometimes feel that many do not make this distinction and demonize, for no reason, what is happening in these platforms. Some platforms, although approved as collaborative economy platforms, did not meet the other conditions that would have allowed their couriers to benefit from the collaborative economy tax system. Some of them have therefore turned to the tax administration to adapt their model in order to comply with this scheme. In this context and in order not to allow couriers who thought they could benefit from the tax system of the collaborative economy, in good faith and on the basis of the information communicated to them by the platforms, the administration decided to show flexibility towards couriers from platforms that had undertaken such steps and committed themselves to adapting their model, in accordance with the legislation on the collaborative economy. In practice, couriers will be granted, in the past, the tax treatment applicable to the income of the collaborative economy in accordance with the conditions and limits laid down in the legislation. The relevant platforms were invited to communicate in this way to their couriers. In accordance with the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code 1992, a list of approved platforms is maintained on the FPS Finance website.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u16	Mr.Minister, indeed, with respect to the bill that you introduced in the last Parliament, we found the initiative interesting. We stressed that we should start to care about this new form of economy that was growing in power and we found it appropriate to look at it and legislate. At the time, there was still 10% taxation, and then the project was reviewed. We had abstained for that reason. There was also the risk of introducing a new form of competition compared to the traditional economy. We had reservations about this, but we still find it interesting to be politically concerned with this economy and that status for the workers. When we ask you or the Minister for Employment, we always want to say that technological developments and innovations are very positive for us, as long as we respect the regulation in terms of social protection and work. Here we are talking about occasional work, you are right, but when we exceed the 6 500 euros of annual income, that is where the debate on the working conditions of the delivery agents takes place. It is normal for us to have decent working conditions. With regard to the tax component of my question, I thank you for your answer. I'll keep an eye on this case. Everyone is convinced that this is an economy that is growing enormously. It is time to be able to settle it positively by encouraging it and ensuring that our labour and tax laws are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u17	I would like to add that the applicable regime is finally quite comparable to that of students. Students are not taxed on their income because it is limited in time and amount. Once the student's work becomes professional, other rules apply. It's exactly the same here, we're talking about occasional collaboration. We sometimes tend to hound and the name Uber brings everyone up to the ceiling. I repeat that this is an occasional one, and the distinction must be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u18	I agree, but I was talking about working conditions when we went beyond the occasional. This is the debate about the Deliveroo deliverers. Those who are no longer in the conditions of the De Croo law, who pass over, experience difficulties because they are considered independent. That is the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u19	Madam Chair, Minister, my question was initially addressed to the Minister of Justice. It concerns the recovery of the debts of the FPS Finances by the judicial officers. On 1 December 2016, a legislative amendment allowed the ONSS to grant a concession for the administrative and judicial recovery of its claims to a concessionaire. Shortly after this amendment, a concession was granted to a private company. As many as 135,000 cases were said to have been entrusted to judicial officers in 2017. In this respect, it is important to recall that administrative costs, amounting to 30 euros per file, are charged to judicial officers by the said private company so that they can be designated in the context of the procedure of recovery of claims. It is estimated that these costs represent a significant financial gain for this private company of more or less EUR 4 million per year. It is up to us that a similar legislative amendment would be envisaged with regard not only to the administrative and judicial recovery of claims, but also to the whole federal tax dispute (contributions, VAT, criminal fines, etc.).). This raises some concerns about the eventual privatization of the FPS Finances. Minister, is a public procurement under consideration to entrust federal tax litigation to a potential concessionaire? If so, is it conceivable, from both a practical and a principle point of view, to transfer such jurisdiction to a private and commercial company? What about respecting the confidentiality of personal data? Does a private commercial company offer the same guarantees of respect as judicial officers? The latter are subject to several levels of control. What would be the number of disputes involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, a public procurement is indeed under consideration by the FPS Finances. The latter is thinking about another way of distributing his collection files, and therefore of tax litigation, to judicial officers, while being attentive, if necessary, to the remarks and recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman in his report "The strategy of a recovery of the FPS Finances". This distribution to judicial officers, who remain individually responsible for the recovery of the files received, must actually be done digitally and according to the rules laid down by the SPF Finances. The moment or conditions under which the granting of the files is made to the judicial officers do not change. In addition, these would be first of all criminal fines and, subsequently, other debts that will be recorded in the First application. It goes without saying that, if such a public contract were to be launched, companies, commercial or not, could register in order to be able to distribute the files between the judicial officers. The successful tenderer would be the unique point through which the distribution, reporting and follow-up of the files would take place. It is obvious that if the FPS Finances were to employ a service provider, this would be done in compliance with the rules laid down by the General Data Protection Regulation and on the basis of a data processing framework protocol, as provided for by the Law on the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the processing of personal data. The number of cases actually concerned depends on the voluntary payment of tax and non-tax debts, as well as on the result of recovery actions taken by the administration itself. Nevertheless, as an example, for each of the years 2018 and 2019, more than 200,000 missions, all types of debts combined (taxes, taxes, fines), were sent to judicial officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u21	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I understand that there is a discussion about the need to be able to distribute debt files better, but there is no decision as to the nature of the company that would be able to deal with that jurisdiction. So I'd like to make a call to you. If this path were chosen, it would be necessary to ensure that there is consultation with the first concerned, namely the judicial officers. That's the least I can do! On the other hand, attention must be paid to the possible private or commercial nature of society that would be able to manage this competence, since it should still be recognized by the judiciary. This is not the case with regard to administrative and judicial recovery. We really need to be recognized as such. Finally, care must be taken to ensure that individual files are reviewed. Care must be taken, in particular, to take into account the difficulties faced by a debtor with regard to illness, the occurrence of loss of employment, etc. That is why we have problems with the private and commercial nature of this possible company. In fact, there is a real fear in the head of the judicial officers that their sovereign missions will be privatized. It is the independence of the judicial officers that is at stake here. Mr Minister, I therefore appeal to you to be vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u22	Madam President, Minister, the Administration of Large Enterprises within the FPS Finance started the pilot project Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme at the end of 2018. It is a project embedded in the control strategy of the FPS. The pilot project would last at least two years and address very large companies. It was somewhat strange that at that time, about a year after the pilot project was launched, the FPS Finance suddenly went to the press and announced that the service immediately started the so-called Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme. I was confused because it was actually a pilot project that was running for a while. You know what this is about, of course. For the tax control of large companies, the FPS wants to use a different method. The aim is to conclude a tax covenant with greater legal certainty. The focus used to be solely on control. Now the FPS wants to step up to the companies and give them the opportunity to step into a process of compliance, whereby a covenant is concluded after a complete review of the books. A difference with the classic rulings is also that the agreements refer to the full declaration and not to a single tax construction. Mr Minister, could you explain the pilot programme more clearly? Is it still running? How exactly should the FOD communication be interpreted one year after the announced start of the pilot project? Does it mean that it is no longer a pilot programme, but a broader implementation of the CTCP in the control strategy of the FPS Finance? Is the news that the FPS is still looking for staff with a broad knowledge of the monitoring of business processes? Does that specifically refer to the wider implementation of the CTCP? Has an annual report of so-called decisions of particular interest already been published under the CTCP?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I have questions in the same order. A pilot project has indeed been announced on the CTCP, following a feasibility study carried out which, if I understand correctly, would also have been validated. The CTCP, the so-called horizontal supervision, means that the tax authorities and the companies make agreements between themselves, rather than working through checks on the ordinary tax returns. After an audit, companies can conclude a tax covenant that should provide them with legal certainty. That in itself is a noble objective. Moreover, we all know that legal certainty is important for companies. The system must not, of course, be at the expense of proper tax collection. The pilot phase was and is, if I understand correctly, applied to three large groups. According to the somewhat surprising report, tax control would therefore only last three days instead of three months. The federal government would thus allegedly have significant efficiency gains. Recently, in De Tijd, it was announced that the CTCP will be restarted. 1.348 companies are eligible for this, which surprised me somewhat. A number of auditors were therefore sought through Selor. My question is in line with the questions raised by the previous speaker, but the thrust of my question is somewhat different. In the Netherlands, the CTCP system has been in place since 2005, where horizontal supervision is applied to almost all large companies. However, reports regularly show that Dutch inspectors complain about the fact that the government also misses billions every year because of fewer controls. Minister, have all the recommendations of the feasibility study on horizontal monitoring been taken into account? Can we get a copy of that study, validated in early 2018? A pilot project was launched at three large companies. How and to what extent is this pilot phase a follow-up to the study mentioned? That was announced at the time, but there were also some nuances to be made. The FPS Finance claims that the pilot phase is already generating efficiency gains. This is somewhat in contradiction with the years of experience in the Netherlands, where the inspectors are not clearly positive according to the series of articles. How are the positive results, as the FPS Finance in De Tijd shows, supported? Are the results clearly positive for both the tax authorities and the companies involved? When I submitted this oral question, six auditors were still being sought. To this end, the world of consultancy was looked at. That world often also provides advice to large companies to avoid as many taxes as possible, I say deliberately avoid. Somewhat naughty, I'd like to ask you if the poacher is going to be a ranger now. How do we prevent current forest rangers from turning back into poachers, leaving the FPS Finance and working back for companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u24	My administration started the pilot project Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme of CTCP at the end of 2018. The pilot project CTCP involves a new way of working and is based on studies carried out by the OECD, the experience of countries that already apply such a programme and recent developments in the fiscal domain. The pilot project will run for at least two years and will be evaluated thereafter. During this pilot phase, the number of participants is limited. The CTCP strives for compliance through a collaborative model based on mutual trust, transparency, open and proactive communication and the validation of business systems and processes by the so-called Tax Control Framework, in order to achieve greater legal certainty. The CTCP focuses on clearly defined, very large companies participating on a voluntary basis and is in line with increasing governance and transparent risk follow-up within companies. Companies that do not comply with this profile cannot join the CTCP. The feasibility study is the basis of the CTCP. As regards efficiency gains in terms of time that tax controls may take, this concerns possible time gains that may follow from the CTCP, which have not yet been established for the sake of clarity, as the pilot project is still ongoing. The study outlines the framework for the implementation of the CTCP. The brochure on the CTCP contains the method. Questions frequently asked by candidate companies are included in a recently published FAQ. At present, four groups of companies have started the CTCP. All groups are in the intake phase. This is the assessment phase prior to the signature of the CTCP Agreement. At this stage of the pilot project, it is too early to estimate any efficiency gains. Preparatory talks with other potential candidates are ongoing and new contacts are being followed. Through Selor, a recruitment procedure for CTCP auditors was launched in mid-December, with which my administration wants to attract staff who have experience in preparing, analysing, monitoring and/or updating the Tax Control Framework within the CTCP. Internal staff who meet the conditions may also subscribe to this procedure. For them, it'll be a promotional procedure. Each participating enterprise group shall be assigned a follow-up team consisting of several tax specialists on corporate tax, transfer pricing, VAT, etc. together with a CTCP auditor. This way of working aims to ensure an objective approach for all participating groups. The same team will continue to follow the Tax Control Framework after the signature of the CTCP agreement. It is the second time that my administration has launched such a selection procedure. The first procedure resulted in one laureate, which could not yet be appointed because of the current situation of current cases. Employees who already participate in the CTCP are accompanied by a training programme in making a mindswitch going from an approach aimed at controlling the past towards the focus on current tax insights. Targeted training is used to develop certain soft skills and learns more about the analysis and assessment of the Tax Control Framework. My administration receives support from the European Commission through the Structural Reform Support Programme (SRSP). In other words, self-employed workers receive targeted training, but this cannot, of course, replace specific practical experience. The pilot project started at the end of 2018. Consequently, in 2020, through the FPS Finance Annual Report, an initial anonymised publication will be made on the work and decisions made within the CTCP in 2019. Once the precedents are externally accessible on Fisconetplus, the decisions in that section will also be published anonymously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. It is good that the formula of the oral questions exists, because I think we have been misguided by the article in De Tijd. It is now clear that the pilot project is still ongoing and that there is no wider implementation. We will, of course, follow up on this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The article in De Tijd was apparently a bit premature. The search for a model of cooperation based on experience within the OECD, which offers confidence, transparency and legal certainty, is a good thing. Minister, when the annual report of the FPS Finance of 2020 reports partly anonymously on this pilot project, I assume that the experience of the Netherlands will also be taken into account? You didn't say anything about that. There are sometimes critical voices about this. I hope that those critical voices will be taken into account in the development of our pilot phase. These four groups of companies to which you referred do not refer to the 1,348 companies referred to in the newspaper article, Minister? I take it those four groups are not as numerous as those 1,348 companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u27	I don't know. For us, it's about four groups. The article seemed a bit bizarre to me, because it also refers to the fact that it would be new. Newspapers aren't always right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u29	Minister, at the end of the previous legislature, the Chamber of Representatives adopted a broad-based bill to introduce a code of ethics, an oath and disciplinary regime for the banking sector, the so-called banker's oath. To my previous question on this matter, you replied that you would have formal consultations with the sector within the legal deadline, with the end of 31 December 2019. Whether and to what extent the government could decide on the date of entry into force of the law in current cases would depend, inter alia, on the outcome of that consultation, as well as on the concrete implementing measures needed to implement the law. Firstly, what is the outcome of the consultation you had with the banking sector at the end of last year? Secondly, what concrete implementing measures are needed to implement the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u30	Mr Vanbesien, it is true that the consultation with the banking sector on the implementation of the Law of 4 April 2019 establishing a banker's oath and disciplinary law for the financial sector was launched in good time. The consultation with Febelfin took place on 27 November 2019 and took place constructively. Febelfin indicated his willingness to be loyal to the further execution of the banker's oath and disciplinary law. Febelfin, however, pointed to a number of shortcomings and concerns in the current law. Let me give you some examples. For example, it is important for Febelfin that, in view of the serious consequences a disciplinary conviction may have on bank employees, the rights of the defence are adequately guaranteed. Furthermore, according to Febelfin, the interaction between the current law and the disciplinary regime, on the one hand, and the existing sanction mechanisms of the National Bank and the FSMA, on the other, should be clarified. It is also necessary to ensure that the scope of the banker's oath is broad enough to ensure that all institutions offering financial services meet the same ethical standards. As a result of these comments, I decided to seek the advice of the National Bank of Belgium, the FSMA and my administration. Before we begin with the practical implementation measures, such as the drafting of a code of ethics, the establishment of an order of banking discipline and the setting up of a banking disciplinary committee, it is essential that the foundations of the legislation are sufficiently solid and conclusive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u31	Of course, the foundations of the law must be firm before they are put into effect, Minister. I thought those investigations had already been carried out during the previous legislature. If it is necessary to ask for additional advice, I will soon ask you again about these opinions and about the next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u32	Minister, an annex to the State resources budget containing the inventory of federal tax expenditure is published annually. The purpose of the inventory is to inform Parliament about the budgetary costs of fiscal measures. The inventory therefore aims to increase budgetary transparency. The inventory for 2018 has not yet been published. This is probably due to the lack of a budget for the year 2019. However, the inventory was published in the past in years in which the government was in current cases. For example, the inventory for the financial year 2009 was published in December 2010. Minister, are you prepared to deliver the inventory to Parliament for 2018? When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u33	Mr Vanbesien, the inventory of exemptions, deductions and reductions affecting the revenue of the State is under preparation. The inventory will be published as soon as possible. Quite translated, it means that there has been some delay compared to the normal course of events, but that we hope to be able to publish them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u34	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u35	Madam President, Minister, in recent years the use of virtual currencies has grown considerably. In spite of the enthusiasm they can generate, these currencies of a new kind, however, include risks in money laundering and terrorist financing. Moreover, AMLD 5 has taken these risks into account by making virtual currency exchange platforms subject to its rules. If this is a step forward, it should be stressed that this regulation will only concern exchanges between fiduciary and virtual currencies. Virtual currency exchanges between them will not be covered, which, according to CTIF, entails risks of feeding money laundering circuits by allowing the conversion of virtual currencies guaranteeing the anonymity of the transaction. This anonymity offered by cryptocurrency also involves risks to crime and terrorist financing. According to CTIF, some criminals and terrorists use virtual currencies to purchase equipment, stolen passports and weapons on the Dark Web in an anonymous manner. These risks of money laundering and terrorist financing are exacerbated by the existence of payment cards attached to digital currency portfolios. Performing the same functions as a traditional payment card, they allow both its holder to make payments online as well as to withdraw money from cryptocurrency funds. Such payment cards would also escape anti-money laundering legislation, since the transactions in question did not pass through a financial institution offering cash-type products. Minister, in view of the challenges posed by these currencies, I would like to ask you the following questions. In the absence of a specific legal framework for virtual currencies, what measures are being taken or could be taken by your FPS to prevent the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing associated with it? Shouldn't the Belgian transposition of AMLD 5 be extended to cover cryptocurrency exchange platforms between them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u36	Mr Bayet, CTIF has repeatedly drawn attention – notably in its annual activity reports – to the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing linked to the use of virtual currencies and assets. The two coordinating bodies dealing with the financing of terrorism – the Coordinating Body for Combating Money Laundering of Illicit Origin and the National Security Council – have analysed and assessed the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing in relation to the use of virtual currencies and assets. Their findings are contained in the National Risk Assessment, released in February 2017. On this basis, the Coordinating Committee for Intelligence and Security commissioned the counter-terrorist financing platform, which is dependent on it, and drafted the 2017 national assessment, to develop an action plan "to combat the financing of terrorism". To this end, three sub-working groups have been set up. One of them, under the direction of the FPS Finances and the General Administration of the Treasury, has worked on the development of measures to mitigate terrorist financing risks related to the use of virtual currencies and assets. As a result of this work, FSMA was designated as the supervisory authority for the virtual assets sector. Legislation on the subjecting and supervision of virtual asset exchange platforms and portfolio providers containing them – transposing the AML 5 Directive – is currently being drafted and will be presented to the Council of Ministers on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I had read the 2017 evaluation and read the action plan. Even if the government is a minority and in day-to-day business, we can go even further. I welcome the presentation of this text to the Council of Ministers this Friday. Perhaps this will give me the opportunity to come back soon. In any case, I draw your attention to this issue, because more and more of our citizens are being fooled by these virtual currencies and the harmful use that can be made of them. It is the role of the State to protect the population and institutions from this serious danger, which is not yet controlled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u38	Minister, the question may be somewhat curious. I could have put them on Febelfin last week. However, I was absolutely prevented from doing so because of other activities in another committee. The problem of negative interest rates is, of course, still topical. A royal decision on the regulated accounts, in particular savings deposits, precludes the application of negative interest rates in Belgium to the modal saver. What strikes me is that the government and you have so far communicated to the general public that only very large companies would be covered by the application of negative interest rates by banking institutions. However, it appears that this negative interest rate is also applied in practice by the banking institutions for example for accounts of legal persons such as funds for the security of existence. In the last few weeks, I have received reports of banks charging negative interest rates to such funds. What's that got to do with it? I mean that the banking institutions are difficult to offer investment products with a positive return and an investment period of less than two years within the framework of these FBZs, which does not immediately provide a solution for rising cash between January and December. What is it really about? The funds or funds in question are paid to the fund monthly by the National Social Security Office, in accordance with the sectoral collective agreements, for the payment, for example, of end-of-year contributions of 30 000 workers in a particular sector. Minister, that means in concrete terms that tens of thousands of euros of the funds paid by the RSZ should be used to pay negative interest rates. I do know that there is a negotiating margin. A compromise has indeed been reached. Nevertheless, it remains remarkable that negative interest rates should be paid with resources that ultimately have social objectives, such as financing and organising vocational training or financing and ensuring the safety and health of workers. You know the FBI's. It remains strange that it applies to them as well. Can you work out a solution for this? Are you prepared to discuss the matter with Febelfin? Do you consider it lawful and appropriate that banks should be able to charge negative interest on such funds from FPZs that are specifically used for tasks of social benefit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u39	Mr Ravyts, your question does not show whether the money deposits of the funds are placed on future accounts, unregulated savings accounts or regulated savings accounts. However, the applicable legislation depends on that qualification. A credit institution commercialising an account as a regulated savings account within the meaning of Article 21, 5° of the Income Tax Code 1992 shall be required by law to comply with all the rules laid down in Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 27 August 1993 implementing the WIB 92, including the rules on the minimum remuneration, irrespective of who the account holder is. I also refer to Article 28b (2) of the Law of 2 August 2002 on the supervision of the financial sector and financial services. If the accounts to which you refer, which have received the money deposits of the funds for security of existence, have been commercialised by the credit institutions as regulated savings accounts, a minimum fee should be paid for the money in those accounts. If the accounts with which the money deposits have been received are not commercialised as regulated savings accounts but as forward accounts or as unregulated savings accounts, then there is no legal obligation for banks to grant a minimum remuneration for those deposits. In this case, the contractual terms of the account and the information provided to the account holder should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u40	Minister, I expected that answer. It is a correct answer, in the sense that, of course, it depends on the type of account. However, it was my intention to receive a technical reply from you. I will confront the funds concerned in order to ensure that they exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u41	Minister, this question is somewhat in line with Mr Vanden Burre's question earlier, but has a slightly different perspective. It is about the system of the sharing economy, where services between individuals are facilitated by a recognised sharing platform. This is subject to certain conditions. The recognised sharing platforms can be found on the Finance website. Is the list of recognised sharing platforms accurate and up-to-date? Can one trust that the platforms on the list also meet and continue to meet all the conditions? Can you tell us if recognition has already been withdrawn? How will it be checked whether the recognised platforms that can be found on the website still meet the conditions? How can you guarantee individuals who consult the list that they will obtain the favourable tax status when they subsequently operate on those recognised sharing platforms? Can you guarantee they'll be okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u42	Since the introduction of the sharing economy tax system, five recognitions have been withdrawn, three at the request of the companies themselves and two as a result of the liquidation of the companies concerned. There is currently no control action on the conditions for the recognition of collaborative economic platforms, but a risk analysis will be launched shortly. The recognition of the electronic platform is only one of the conditions to be met in order to apply the tax system of the collaborative economy. In addition, there are other conditions that must be met. The specific tax system can only be applied as long as those conditions remain fulfilled. Therefore, once the electronic platform is no longer recognised, the tax system of the collaborative economy can no longer be applied. It is therefore no easier to look at the recognition and publication alone. Many factors need to be assessed to determine whether the system is and can be applied. Thus, in addition to the service of the collaborative economy, a recognised platform may also provide other services that are not part of the collaborative economy, thus preventing the scheme from being used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u43	Mr Minister, I understand your explanation, but it is important for the potential users of the system, who can therefore potentially benefit from the tax advantage, that they are aware of it or that the condition of the recognised platforms is met, even if that is only one of the conditions. One cannot expect someone who may want to work in the collaborative economy to check the conditions of recognition of the sharing platforms in one way or another. A person who consults the list provided by the government on the website normally assumes that it is in order. I hope that one way or another, perhaps because of the risk analysis that you are proposing, a check will be possible, so that the users of the system will not be punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u44	Madam President, Minister, something completely different again. A few weeks ago, there was some disturbing coverage of a high magistrate about the lack of recovery of capital punishment. You know that the Di Rupo government in its last months, in 2014, launched the criminal investigation. Since then, the prosecutors, even after a conviction, can start a new investigation into the wealth of the convicted person. The property may even be searched by the family or the entourage. In practice, however, it is clear that fines and confiscations would be collected in a very poor way in our country. There is a lack of recovery of capital punishment, which would result in the government missing significant amounts. A few examples. For example, the recipients of finance would sometimes introduce wrong amounts to be claimed, a postponement of a sentence for the whole would be introduced, while only half of it should be allowed and so on. A seizure of real estate would also not be carried out quickly if, for example, there was a mortgage on it. Recovery would in any case face a number of bottlenecks of an organisational nature which would make it more difficult to recover. For example, the recipient may have a limited check on the property of the convicted person, but this often gets stuck when the property appears to be housed abroad. The recipients also do not systematically examine the solvency of the convicted person. Some of the dysfunctions would be partly due to the lack of a precise calculation of capital punishment in judgments and judgments, a chronic shortage of staff among recipients and the fact that some courts and courts send the extracts of judgments and judgments with delay. Automation of the execution of capital punishment seems obvious and would mean significant savings in time as well as reducing the risk of errors. The magistrate pleads for a multidisciplinary, central body that would only deal with recovery. What is your response to the apparently inadequate collection of capital punishment in our country? Do you confirm the bottlenecks of an organisational nature? How do you seek to remedy this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u45	In its report on the execution of the penalty fines, the Court of Auditors notes that progress has been made which is particularly visible today in the judgments of the police courts but less in other criminal courts and courts. The digital exchange of information on criminal judgments could, of course, be an important efficiency gain and limit possible errors in the calculation, amounts to be claimed or the delay of a sentence. My administration is continuing to work on this digitization. Other measures could also be taken, but they do require a legislative initiative. For example, in the operative part of the judgments, the courts could provide a summary of who is liable. The administration would thus have a clear and unambiguous recovery order. This would also benefit citizens. In addition, enforcement could take place on the basis of enforceable lists rather than on the basis of judgments and judgments, which would mean that the bailiffs would no longer be required to obtain paper documents from the Registrys. However, as far as the seizure of foreign immovable property is concerned, my administration does not have the power to enforce fines and confiscations issued by Belgian courts abroad and chooses to work cost-effectively for that attachment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I note that people are continuing to work on digitisation. I also note that a number of legislative initiatives are needed to obtain clear recovery orders for the administration. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u47	Mr Minister, this question concerns the protocol agreement concluded with regard to Article 18 of the double taxation agreement between Belgium and the Netherlands. A Belgian resident who receives a supplementary pension from the Netherlands pays taxes in Belgium. Now there would be reportedly another discussion with the Netherlands about the method of working. The Netherlands would also like to tax. We also hear that there are still problems with the so-called professorship clause. When professors live in Belgium and work in the Netherlands, they are subject to personal taxation in Belgium for another two years, while paying social contributions in the Netherlands. This would give them a monthly disadvantage of 370 euros. Finally, during the discussions in the Netherlands, there would also be voices in order to adapt to Article 26, the non-discrimination article. That's why I have the following questions. Can you clarify whether the supplementary pension scheme is once again under discussion with the Netherlands? If that is the case, what is our position on this? Can one way or another a solution be found to the problems with the professors' clause of the double taxation convention? Can you confirm that this is also the subject of the discussions? Can you clarify whether Article 26 on non-discrimination is also part of the ongoing negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u48	The negotiations between Belgium and the Netherlands aim to conclude a completely new double taxation treaty to replace the current Convention of 5 June 2001. All the articles you refer to in your question on the distribution of the power of charging for supplementary pensions, on the appointment of professors and on the non-discrimination article are on the negotiating table. The starting point of the Belgian negotiators in such negotiations is generally based on provisions adopted in the 2010 Belgian Model Convention, taking into account the treaty-related measures to prevent base erosion and profit shifting adopted by the OECD and the G20 in the framework of the so-called BEPS project. Since the negotiations between Belgium and the Netherlands have not yet been concluded, I cannot give you any further details on the current situation. The negotiations were also suspended by the end of 2018 because the remaining outstanding issues are too important to be decided by a government in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember that the position we have held here is also the position shown by the OECD model treaties. I hope that we will not have to wait so long before the various discussions can be restarted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u50	Minister, this question follows on from my previous question on cashless payments and the creation of a banking platform. Today we can check the state of our account and/or pay an invoice with our smartphone or with the computer. This is not yet the case for many older people. They still go to the bank or let others go to the bank for different services, such as printing their extracts or paying accounts. Since they are not or are not yet on the digital train, they now have to pay more and more for those services that used to be free. In the case of several banks, we have just talked about this. In fact, printing extracts is no longer possible. The organisation Financité, which strives for equal financial treatment, calculated that this could cost up to 111 euros per year for some people. They took the example of a 70-year-old who makes only two payments by direct debit each month, brings in four paper transfers to the bank and has his extracts delivered by mail because he cannot go get them. In the case of six payments per month, he does not over-pay 111 euros per year. According to Febelfin, the banks now apply such high rates because their profitability is under pressure. While the development of banking apps also entails the necessary costs, these services are free for citizens. Do you agree with the view of Febelfin that these services should be defended against payment? Why should banking services that have always existed be paid for those people who do not or do not yet control the other ways of digital banking? How is that compatible with the basic services we have just talked about? Do you not see a potential security problem in this because some people who are not familiar with digitalization are obliged to do their banking transactions digitally?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u51	According to my information, as a sector organisation, Febelfin has never taken any position on the specific pricing of banking services. After all, they are bank-owned decisions which are independent of the sector. Free pricing is one of the foundations of our economy. It is important that free competition between companies can play a full part. This also means that consumers should be able to change banks if they are no longer satisfied with the tariffs or the quality of the services offered. We must be aware that digitalisation is taking place today throughout our economy and throughout our society. It happens today in the municipalities, public transport, libraries, taxes, schools, just to prepare our economy for the future. It is no different for the banking sector. Therefore, it is not self-evident that free non-digitalised banking services should continue to be seen as a manifestation. Our society is in transition. Banks and consumers need to prepare and develop in depth to continue to support our economy tomorrow. In terms of security, there is no immediate problem. Digital payments increase annually at the expense of cash. Just because of the digitalisation of our economy, more and more opportunities are emerging to pay digitally, which also means that cash is less and less needed. If we could pay more digitally in addition to cash from traders and liberal professions, the safety of everyone would benefit. In this respect, we are still lagging behind our neighbours, especially in the Scandinavian countries. However, a catch-up is underway. Digital banking is a logical next step in that process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u52	Minister, I agree with you that digitalisation is taking place throughout society and that we need to prepare for it. Digital banking is part of that. You yourself said it was a transition process. Transition processes must be done with evolutions and not with revolutions. We can't force people into that, because we'll get shocked. We have to make sure that everyone can go along with it and that we guide it. You refer to banks' own decision-making rights and free competition between banks. You know as well as I do that many people are tied to their bank via their bank accounts or other products and cannot simply change their bank without changing a number of things. That is a threshold in the free competition of banks to which you refer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u53	Mr Minister, I have a question about one of the many regular reports from the Court of Auditors that reach us, this time on the processing, exploitation, monitoring and evaluation by the tax authorities of the international automatic exchange of tax data. According to the press release of 9 January 2020, the Court of Auditors concludes in its evaluation report that the tax authority manages to automatically link the vast majority of the information received to the correct taxpayer. Despite tight staffing and limited investment in specific IT systems, the processing of the data received in recent years led to more than EUR 300 million in increases in the taxable base. However, after a sample check, the Court considers that the risk analysis used by the tax authorities is still not sufficiently effective. Similarly, indicators have not yet been developed to monitor and evaluate the exploitation of automatically exchanged tax data. Can you explain which recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the organisation, legislation, risk analysis and the follow-up of tax data obtained by international automatic exchange will be accepted by the FPS Finance? Has the international automatic data exchange had an impact on the regularisation requests in 2019? The figures of the Regularisation Contact Point showed that, following a sharp increase in 2017, there was a more limited impact in 2018, both on the number of declarations submitted and on the amounts declared.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u54	Indeed, in its evaluation report of 9 January 2020, the Court of Auditors made a number of recommendations in terms of organisation and legislation, risk analysis and monitoring of tax data obtained from international automatic exchange. I am going over the steps taken by my administration to meet the thirteen recommendations. An IT solution for access rights in Biztax was developed. Inspection officers shall be informed of the existence and content of certain information abroad. The necessary work has been started to make this possible for the existence and content of other types of information from abroad. The exchange of data and the contact between the various departments of the FPS Finance were established by a lawful transfer of data through the data warehouse. In order to optimise the exchange of data, a monthly analysis procedure was developed. Where the basic data are not sufficient to ensure accurate risk management, it shall be systematically requested to supplement the missing data. In order for local management to verify that all selected files appear on the audit services' task list and are properly handled, a summary of files to be examined shall be provided in the form of a follow-up table. The Risk Management team shall draw up a data processing plan so that files to be examined are charged twice a year and any risk of limitation is avoided. The FATCA data is already used for the risk analysis of the financial information. A management review and a control action were launched for FATCA data for which the limitation period was threatened. All research assignments are subject to statistical control, which also takes into account the method of benchmarking between the different centres in Belgium. The regional centres provide feedback and inform the Risk Management team if any selection problems were identified. The personnel plan allowed to strengthen the Risk Management Service with five employees. That staff plan was tailored to the specific needs associated with the adequate handling of the data received in the framework of the automatic international exchange of information. The cross-section of the data of the National Bank's Central Contact Point with the automatically exchanged international financial data is a complex problem. My administration is investigating whether such a crossing is legally feasible and, of course, practical. Since the general administration of the BBI has access to ORBIS, including TP Catalyst for benchmark studies, there is no need for an additional database. The Dutch country reporting focuses on the visualisation of country reports in risk zones. Due to the specificity of the Belgian situation, where in addition to the country report there is also a local file and a group file, Belgium develops a risk analysis system adapted to the Belgian context. A common platform, to be used by several countries, as indicated in the recommendation by the Court of Auditors, is only possible if the platform is sufficiently flexible to take account of the specific context specific to each country. In 2019, almost €400 million of regularisation applications were submitted, of which more than a third were submitted in December. As in previous years, a large proportion of applications were made during the last month of the year. The reason for the end-of-year Rush was also the increase in penalty rates in 2020. However, the figures do not indicate the impact of the international automatic data exchange on the 2019 regularisation requests. In addition to the exchange of data, the increased attention of the prosecutors and the strict attitude of the compliance services of financial institutions may also motivate the principal to submit a request for regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u55	Minister, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive answer that brings up-to-date follow-up to the thirteen recommendations, which also gives us Members of Parliament a practical insight into all aspects of, for example, the risk management in the FPS Finance when dealing with the international automatic data exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u56	Minister, I have a question about one of my stickhorses and, I understand, one of your stickhorses. It was announced that the European Central Bank will review its policy. Mrs Lagarde has also announced that she would like to set out a new policy direction. I filed my question two weeks ago. You're already here today to answer. Thank you for following up on the questions so quickly. In the meantime, however, a lot has already happened. At European level, there is a debate on the method of calculating the inflation target. Now it is defined as below, but close to, 2 %. The question now is whether we should look at it more broadly. There is also news at national level. We had Febelfin visiting our committee, who spoke very clearly here. First, the political groups have spoken clearly. Above all, we have said that the minimum interest rate for savings books of 0.11% cannot be affected. It was remarkable that Febelfin didn't say a word about it: there too it was understood that there was no basis for the minimum interest rate to be abolished, which is an important fact. It was also very remarkable how critical Febelfin is for the ECB's ultra-launch monetary policy. It's been different once. Today, not only our party speaks you, but also Febelfin, and criticises the ECB's policy. Minister, should policy be pursued? What about quantitative easing? Can the low interest rates be any lower? You have already criticized yourself in this House. I would particularly like to focus on the future, given the recent statements. How do you view the discussion on the ECB's mandate? Of course, especially the independent but unfortunately also irresponsible bankers are competent. However, politics also bears a great responsibility, especially as regards the definition of the ECB's mandate. This is ultimately about price stability and how it is further implemented. In the light of all the recent statements, it would be interesting to know whether there is news on this at European level and what your views on this matter are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u57	The Governing Council of the ECB will carry out the exercise independently, just as it takes its decisions on monetary policy independently, in order to complete its mandate of price stability. However, I would like to highlight a number of elements which I think are relevant in the reflections on the planned revision of the monetary policy strategy. After more than 20 years of monetary policy strategy and in the light of the budgetary and economic challenges facing European countries, I welcome the ECB's intention to monitor its own policies in a transparent and inclusive manner. Climate challenge, rapid digitisation and changing financial structures have changed the environment in which monetary policy is conducted, including inflation dynamics. The ECB will therefore not limit its evaluation to the quantitative formulation of price stability, monetary policy instruments and economic and monetary analyses, but will also take into account other considerations such as financial stability, employment and environmental sustainability. The mandate of price stability is not in question. However, it is necessary to examine how this mandate can best be implemented against the background outlined above and to what extent other considerations should be taken into account. That is an important step. After years of low interest rate policies and declining economic growth, including under pressure from productivity slowdown and ageing, the ECB currently has only limited scope to ease monetary policy in the event of adverse cyclical developments. The process also provides the opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness and potential side-effects of the policies pursued, including in terms of quantitative easing. The evaluation is expected by the end of 2020. It is important that it becomes an inclusive process, in which all relevant stakeholders are heard. This will involve, inter alia, the National Bank of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u58	Firstly, of course, the ECB shall carry out its mandate independently. However, there is also the principle of accountability. We agree on that. It is good to hear that it is about an inclusive process, in which the National Bank of Belgium will play its role. But that's not enough. Especially when it comes to accountability, the political balance must also be made and we must be able to make our voices heard. Secondly, you mentioned climate, among other things. House prices have not fallen, even though you are also sensitive to their potential impact on inflation. Let's definitely keep an eye on that, too. Thirdly, and finally, on 31 January, Mario Draghi received Germany's highest award from the German President. If that had been a ribbon of Spain, France or Italy, no one would have been surprised, but it became a ribbon of Germany. I hope that no Belgian ribbon will be attached to that, because there is some criticism of Mr Draghi's policy in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u59	Minister, in November 2019 we discussed in this committee the ongoing negotiation process on EU taxonomy. In the meantime, we have received happy news about this. An ambitious compromise was reached between Member States and the European Parliament in December 2019. This means that financial products will have to prove their sustainability under strict criteria. This will encourage markets to make sustainable investment the mainstream. This agreement has taken a large horde, but there are still a lot of challenges ahead of us. By the end of this year, the European Commission is expected to establish technical thresholds that will determine which types of industry will be identified as one of the different types of sustainable activities. These thresholds and rules will be established on the basis of recommendations from the Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Financing. Here, of course, we can expect strong lobbying from certain sectors to steer them in one direction or another. The temporary kink in the cable between 5 and 16 December 2019 shows that the impact of this lobby work should not be underestimated. That's why I have the following questions. Can you outline the last few weeks of the taxonomy negotiations and the Belgian role in these negotiations? What is the precise agenda of the further implementation of taxonomy and its eventual roll-out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u60	Discussions have taken place in recent weeks between the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council. For the Council, the Finnish Presidency represented all Member States. Belgium was in favour of a regulation which would apply to all financial actors and products while maintaining the do-no-significant-harm principle. Belgium also advocated a harmonised development of the various pillars and their rapid and realistic application. In doing so, our country stressed the need to ensure, as far as possible, the cohesion between the various regulations linked to taxonomy. Belgium also advocated strengthening the article on minimum safeguards by including a reference to the European Pillar of Social Law and the European Social Charter. Over the last few weeks, our country has continued to fully support the ambitious proposal of the European Commission and the Presidency to reach an agreement with the European Parliament and within the Council. The European Parliament's proposals, which were in line with our national position, were also supported. No specific calendar of further planning has yet been received, but these are the following steps: legal and technical review of the texts, including translations; formal approval by the Council and Parliament; signature and publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This process must be completed in the coming months during the Croatian Presidency. In the meantime, technical work is continuing, particularly in the field of the European Commission, in preparation for the implementation of taxonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have not received an answer on the risk of lobbying, but I assume you are aware of that. I am pleased that Belgium has taken one of the strongest positions. We will monitor this with you and regularly ask for a state of affairs. Let us do everything possible to ensure that this agreement is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u62	Minister, quite a few banks in the European Union still have too many junk credits or national government bonds on their balance sheets. The completion of the Banking Union with the so-called Common Deposit Guarantee Scheme would better protect savers in the case of failing banks and make banks less dependent on the national government. In the run-up to the December Eurogroup meeting, it was expected that a green light would be given to move from the technical discussion to the political negotiations on its size and structure. However, it was decided to extend the technical discussion until at least June 2020. In addition, an agreement in principle on the package of measures relating to the reform of the European Stability Mechanism was reached at that meeting of the Eurogroup. The reform includes the introduction of the common backstop for the Single Resolution Fund, to be provided on behalf of the euro area. The signature of the revised ESM Convention is scheduled for spring 2020, after which ratification by the 19 Member States can take place. What reasons gave rise to the extension of the technical discussion on EDIS, the deposit guarantee scheme? What position did Belgium take in relation to the transition to political negotiations? What role did the internal German division play in the decision to extend the technical discussion? With regard to the reform of the ESM, I have the following questions. What timetable for ratification was agreed at the Eurogroup meeting? When do you expect the Treaty amendment to be submitted to the Chamber? Do you expect problems with ratification in other Member States, such as Italy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u63	Mr Vanbesien, the banking union has become a kind of Netflix series at the euro summits. Unfortunately, there is no cliffhanger, because the discussion fails to conclude. The disappointing conclusions of the Eurozone Summit of 13 December reflect limited progress on the Banking Union. Technical discussions are continuing, because there has indeed been insufficient concrete progress on the Common Deposit Guarantee Scheme, also known as EDIS. The creation of three substantive subgroups on deposit guarantee, cross-border integration and risk reduction of government bonds could not meet the expectations of reaching an agreement on a political roadmap. Several political stumbling blocks remain. Italy remains opposed to any form of regulatory tightening of the risk weighting for government bonds, while Germany and the Netherlands refuse to talk about a full deposit guarantee scheme until sufficient risk reduction for government bonds has been achieved. In addition, there remains the critical debate for our country about the cross-border integration of banks and, more specifically, the tension between headquarters and branches in other Member States, the so-called home host debate. This discussion is mainly between our country, supported by Luxembourg, and France. We continue to advocate strong legal guarantees of solidarity between home and host countries. This is essential to protect our savers and businesses in times of crisis. More generally, Belgium is in favour of a rapid but balanced deepening of the banking union. We want a full EDIS as the third major pillar of the Banking Union, if there has been sufficient risk reduction. Like most Member States, Belgium considers the negotiations in the three subgroups as a package. There can therefore only be an agreement to start the political discussions on EDIS once sufficient progress has been made in the three areas. Before ratifying the ESM Convention, the amended Convention still needs to be signed by all euro area Member States. However, the latest technical discussions on the amended ESM Treaty are still ongoing. After the Italian Government obtained parliamentary support for the ESM adjustments in mid-December, the last political hurdle seems to have been taken to reach an agreement in the coming months. Discussions are expected to be concluded before the summer. The ratification procedure will then be launched soon. On the Belgian side, it is a mixed agreement. In addition to the Federal Parliament, the competent Land Parliaments will also be asked for approval. The amended ESM Convention will not enter into force until the last signatory Member State has submitted its instrument of ratification to the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that Belgium attaches importance to the creation of EDIS. I also understand that we're in a deadlock situation. If we ever find someone who is able to form a government in our country, it might be the perfect person to break the deadlock there as well. Or the other way around, that person gets to come here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u65	Madam President, Minister, I have noticed that my two questions on the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have been combined. Both questions are about the same body, but have a different subject. Minister, my first question concerns the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's vision of climate policy. We have recently discussed the European Investment Bank, which is a leading actor in the fight against climate change. However, several other international public investment banks are less advanced at the moment. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development reviewed its energy strategy at the end of 2018, but it is far from as far as the European Investment Bank is concerned. The relative share of fossil fuel investments by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development remains high. Belgium contributes more than EUR 684 million to the EBRD's capital and has not only a seat on the Board of Governors, but also a vote shared with Slovenia and Luxembourg on the Board of Directors. Minister, do you think the EBRD's current energy strategy is sufficiently far-reaching in terms of climate ambition? What position did Belgium take during the review procedure in 2018? Can you give an indication for 2018 and 2019 of the ratio between fossil fuel investments versus renewable energy, both in terms of total investment and broken down by production, extraction and transport? What criteria does the EBRD use today to finance gas projects? In exceptional circumstances, the new energy strategy provides that the EBRD may still make oil-related investments. What are the conditions for these oil-related investments to be met before the Belgian representative approves them? How many oil-related investments were approved by the Belgian representative in 2019? My second question concerns a number of specific projects which are rather controversial and supported by the bank. In recent years, the EBRD has approved a number of controversial loans for the financing of projects of previously questionable quality from a democratic, ecological and economic point of view. I'll give you three. There is more context in the written record of my question, but I shall briefly list them here and confine myself to the essentials. In October 2019, the EBRD approved a loan for a PPP around the new incinerator in Belgrade. However, the European Investment Bank withdrew from the project when it appeared that the incinerator would prevent Serbia from achieving its environmental objectives in the field of recycling and circular economy. Moreover, it was shown that the whole process had already been written in advance to the private partner and violated the Serbian laws in force, as well as Belgrade's planning documents. Apparently, that wasn't a problem for the EBRD. A second example, the EBRD supported the Romanian BRUA gas pipeline project, as well as the Midia gas development project, by becoming a minority shareholder in the Black Sea Oil & Gas SRL. These projects are severely criticised by observers in Romania themselves, who point to untransparent procedures, frequent and flagrant violations of legislation relating to public consultation, clientelism and derogations from existing legislation in order to promote private interests. A third example, the EBRD approved a loan to the hydroelectric power plant Nenskra in Georgia. This project appears to have a significant impact not only on vulnerable natural landscapes, but also a far-reaching negative impact on the financial situation of the Georgian state. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you state the position of the Belgian representative at the EBRD in relation to each of these projects, why he has taken this view and whether, in the light of this information, he is considering calling for a review of the financing of one or more of these projects? Will Belgium play a part in preventing such problematic funding in the future and will it help to draw up a framework for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u66	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, the products mentioned in Georgia, Romania and Serbia have been approved by a large majority by the Board of Governors of the EBRD. The Belgian director also approved the projects on behalf of our country's electoral group, Slovenia and Luxembourg. In assessing the projects, the Belgian electoral group was guided by the framework in which the EBRD is currently working. This also takes into account all environmental and social conditions as well as the conditions of access to information and accountability. The decisive factor is how the project in question will close an existing gap and how it will be monitored through specific and precise reporting during implementation. All projects must comply strictly with the guidelines and standards imposed by the EBRD itself. The EBRD's Management Board adopted three key policy documents at its meeting on 25 April 2019 that strengthen the bank's framework for sound governance. More specifically, it concerns environmental and social policy, access to information and accountability policies in the field of projects. Belgium has actively supported this strengthening of a set of conditional criteria. As regards transparency and accountability principles, the EBRD strengthens the dialogue with all the bank's stakeholders involved in assessing projects and undertakes to release the necessary information and to organise a public consultation in order to clarify and promote the knowledge and understanding of the bank's activities and strategies. It is also essential that the EBRD strengthens the enforceability of its own rules. For example, the EBRD sets out how questions from individuals or organisations about projects financed by the bank that could be harmful or harmed can be dealt with independently. The aim is to facilitate and record the release of information, for example in terms of environmental impact. In this way it will be possible to assess whether the EBRD respects its own environmental and social policies and, should this not be the case, what can be done to correct them and to avoid them in the future. Everything related to project accountability is monitored within the bank independently of project management. More specifically with regard to the EBRD's climate policy, the EBRD's Board of Governors approved a new energy policy for the years 2019-2023 by the end of 2018. The current energy strategy, co-approved by Belgium, is fully in line with the objectives of the Paris climate agreement and builds on the bank's ambition to promote energy efficiency and sustainability throughout all activities of the EBRD. Under this new strategy, the EBRD will support renewable energy projects as a priority. Today we are talking about half of all its funding activities. All forms of coal are no longer financed, nor are oil exploration. Only in exceptional cases are oil-related projects still possible, in particular when those projects substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions or when those projects fit into the transition from the overall production chain to a CO2 neutral economy. In fact, this greatly limits the bank's ability to invest in oil-related projects. The total number of investments in renewable and fossil energy in 2019 amounted to almost 1.3 billion euros, spread over 35 projects. Investments in renewable energy projects accounted for EUR 800 million or 63% of the total, and concerned 31 projects or 89 percent of the total. Investment in concrete projects in fossil fuels accounted for EUR 475 million and concerned only gas projects. The EBRD applies the following criteria for the financing of gas projects until 2023. Firstly, less CO2-intensive alternatives take precedence over gas projects, if they exist. The choice for a gas project cannot be made if that means that in future one will no longer be able to switch to a less CO2 intensive alternative. Secondly, gas projects must be technically and contractually flexible. Energy projects usually have a long lifespan. By introducing flexibility, it facilitates the transition to a less CO2 intensive alternative when it would be offered in the future. Thirdly, in the economic analysis, a project will take into account all externalities and include a shadow project for CO2. In 2019, Belgium supported another financing that affects oil-related activities. It concerns the EBRD's participation in the privatisation of Hellenic Petroleum, as part of the economic adjustment programme running between the Troika and Greece. Belgium is actively advocating that the EBRD should fully align its climate ambitions with the ambitious European climate agenda in the next review of its strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u67	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister. In Europe, therefore, there are clear bodies that do the same work side by side, but do not draw the same conclusions. If it turns out that, on the basis of a number of reports and evaluations, the European Investment Bank withdraws from a project and another body that does not draw its conclusions, then I believe that there is still work to be done to harmonise matters. Especially for the EBRD, there is still work to be done, both in terms of sustainability and the choice of the right projects. I therefore call on you, on behalf of our country, to join the cart to get this wretched giant in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u68	Madam Chair, Minister, in the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for NPBs and companies that are required to complete the UBO register, it is noted that listed companies and their wholly owned subsidiaries are exempt from completing the UBO register. These subsidiaries must, however, "connect to the UBO register and register their ownership structure by including all the intermediary entities, including the listed company". This authorization not to complete the register may be astonished, since in the previous version of the Frequently Asked Questions from the Administration, these companies were also required to provide information relating to their beneficial owners. On reading the latest version of the FAQ, the justification for this exemption appears to lie in the advertising obligations to which companies listed in the regulated markets are subject. Such obligations would ensure "adequate transparency for property information". In view of the fact that many players, including the ASBLs, SMEs and Belgian TPEs, have to complete this register, such an exemption seems surprising, especially since the companies concerned generally have a complex ownership structure. Minister, why did the tax administration decide to exempt listed companies and their wholly-owned subsidiaries from completing the UBO register, whereas this was not the case before? Would this not be discrimination between listed companies and other entities that are required to register? Finally, are the disclosure obligations of listed companies sufficient to compensate for this exemption, particularly with regard to the effectiveness of the fight against money laundering?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u69	Madam President, Mr Bayet, subsidiaries wholly owned by a listed company are still required to complete the UBO register, as long as they have to register the entire ownership structure. However, it is true that the UBO registers of these listed companies should not be completed since this information is public under the transparency legislation. In particular, the exemption from this obligation was introduced because it can be found in Directive 2015/849, the fourth anti-money laundering Directive, which states: "In the case of companies, the natural person(s) who, as a last resort, owns or controls a legal entity because he or she owns a sufficient percentage of shares or voting rights or an interest in the capital of that entity, including by means of bearer shares or control by other means than a company listed on a regulated market which is subject to advertising obligations compatible with Union law or subject to international standards which ensure adequate transparency for information on ownership." A certain confusion arose on this point following the displacement of this exception in the Belgian anti-money laundering law of 18 September 2007, in its Article 23 which deals with the obligations for institutions subject to the AML law and no longer with the general article setting out the definition of UBO. My administration did not find any indication that this was done intentionally or on a motivated basis. Rather, it concluded that this was the result of a technical choice made when transposing the European Directive into Belgian law. This is also the interpretation of other Member States such as France, Germany, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom. In the light of that reasoning, it was decided to exempt information providers, direct or indirect subsidiaries of listed companies, from the obligation to identify the beneficial owners of those listed companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers. I still don't understand why listed companies have been exempted, even if they do so in other countries. This means that we cannot know who the final beneficiaries are. This exemption is a little special to me and I will allow myself to come back soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u71	Minister, tax transparency is an essential tool in the fight against tax crime. This has also been demonstrated, in particular by the information exchange system introduced by the DAC directives. However, this transparency still applies only to tax administrations. Moreover, it does not yet concern a sufficient number of information. However, a proposal for a European directive is ambitious in this respect. The aim of the latter is to impose a country-by-country reporting on multinationals with a turnover of more than 750 million euros per year. These undertakings would therefore be obliged to publish, inter alia, information on taxes paid, employees employed or registered turnover. The report would be public and would include this information for each subsidiary in each of the countries in which they are active. Although the project can be improved, particularly with respect to affected companies, it is a good first step in this area. The information contained in these public reports would not only enable the authorities to be better informed about the tax optimisation practices of these multinationals, but also to empower the companies concerned with their tax strategy. In addition, this new transparency would provide better information for a wide range of actors, be it the company's workers, shareholders or investors. Nevertheless, this project has been facing a recurrent blockage in the Council since its launch in 2016. In November, the Finnish Presidency decided not to adopt a position because it did not agree. However, this dossier does not require the unanimity of the Member States. The importance of this proposal is crucial, whether in terms of tax justice or the right to public information. As I know you share these two concerns, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What was Belgium's position on this proposal? What did you say around the table? What are the main issues facing the blockages? Could a compromise be reached in the short or medium term? Which States are most reluctant to adopt this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u72	Madam President, Mr Bayet, the proposal for a directive amending Directive 2013/34 as regards the communication by certain undertakings and branches of information relating to income tax falls exclusively within the competence of the Minister of Economy. I'm sorry, but my answer ends there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u73	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked a question on this subject, but I will come back to it. In October, you said that you were not expecting the results until the summer. In the meantime, are they on schedule? Will that timing be met? What stage of the investigation are we currently at? Are data still being collected or are they being fully analysed? What data are collected in concrete terms? What specific research questions are we talking about? Can we have that information available to us? After all, I note that cost studies are often incomplete and it would be particularly unfortunate if we had to wait until the summer to find that the study is incomplete in terms of research questions, data or analyses. In De Morgen there was recently an article on the costs of receiving asylum seekers of around EUR 800 million per year. This was in itself a more or less incomplete calculation, but those costs should also be taken into account in the overall calculation of the study ordered from the NBB. There are other things that I would like to hear from you about whether they were effectively included in that study. In concrete terms, it concerns all the costs of reception and all the costs of processing applications, including staff costs. It also covers all the costs of reception in open and closed return centres, including REAB premiums. Then we are talking about flights, whether or not with a distinction between European intervention and what we pay ourselves, namely the accompanying transport to those flights. Are all the costs for the integration of whom a right of residence is granted included in it or does the calculation stop when a residence permit is granted? Are costs included at all levels or is the study limited to the federal level? In addition to the costs of the Länder and the local level, there is still a European dimension to the handling of foreign files. Is everything really included in that, including the software and the staff to which I referred? Will the cost of living and other social contributions also be included in the study? I am thinking, for example, of the people employed under Article 60 and other social systems, such as the IGO, the IVT and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u74	Mrs Van Camp, the National Bank of Belgium has decided to accept my predecessor's request to conduct a study on the economic impact of migration. The migration channel of asylum, to which you refer in your question, is part of this. The National Bank's study is widely understood, but the focus will be on labour market effects and public finances. It seems clear to me that, given the expertise of this institution, the study is conceived from a broad macroeconomic perspective. As part of the study, the National Bank concluded an agreement with the Crossroads Bank on 18 December 2018, which gives the National Bank access to the necessary data. Meanwhile, the National Bank has virtually all the data it requested and has started processing it. These are in particular labour market tables with the following dates for the years 2009 to 2016: details of the socio-economic situation according to the socio-economic status, level and type of studies, level and country of studies, family composition, activity sector and employment rule of the wage-earners, unemployment duration and level of education, wage of employees by sector of activity and income of the self-employed by sector of activity, geographical mobility between work and residence. The analysis of the impact on public finances relates to data relating to transfers made by individuals to and received from the general government, in particular gross income allowing for the calculation of personal income, social contributions and social benefits. The data were made available according to different groups, e.g. according to origin or nationality, Belgium, EU, non-EU residents, age, number of years of residence, etc. I would also like to emphasise that I am confident that the National Bank, which is an independent institution, will carry out this study in a scientifically sound manner and will present its findings in a transparent manner. The bank's intention remains to finalise the report in the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u75	Thank you for your answer, Minister. If I understand correctly, most of the questions I have asked are not included in the study and are just about the effect on the labour market. In other words, migrants with a right of residence will find out exactly what the level of activity is there. Am I getting it together that well?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u76	It's a lot more than that. The question was asked by my predecessor to the National Bank. If you ask a question to the National Bank, you will get a macro-economic answer. That's what the National Bank does. If we want a micro-economic answer, we have to ask the Planning Bureau. The National Bank has a macroeconomic approach and, as asked by my predecessor, looks at the macroeconomic impact of migration in its various forms. A broad approach is used, with the perspective being that of the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u77	Do I therefore agree that it is only the employment figures of those who already have a residence permit and that all the costs relating to the reception of asylum seekers, staff costs, all the costs of return policy, the costs of integration, the costs of other levels of state (since it is mainly about the level of activity), the costs of living wages and social systems are not included?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u78	The question was asked by my predecessor, not myself. Maybe you should ask him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u79	Mr Minister, since 2016 VAT has been levied on aesthetic operations. That legislation was the subject of an action before the Constitutional Court. On December 5th it was destroyed. The Constitutional Court stated that when talking about a VAT obligation for aesthetic operations, there should be no distinction between doctors and non-doctors and that it is irrelevant whether or not it is included in the RIZIV nomenclature. There is a great deal of uncertainty in the field, both among doctors and others who carry out aesthetic operations as well as in hospitals, which sometimes handle the VAT formalities for doctors. I have already questioned you about this in plenary on 12 November. You announced at the time that there would be a communication at the beginning of January which would clarify how this situation should be dealt with in the field. First of all, is it clear what that communication means? Secondly, can you clarify the concrete consequences on the ground? The third question is important. The administration will have to decide whether or not an act is aesthetic. How will it determine this? This is because it has to look at patients' medical records, which is contrary to privacy rules and patient rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u80	Mr Matheï, in reply to your first question, I can refer to the communication published on 17 January 2020. Then I come to your second question. As I have already replied to you, the VAT Code should be amended as a result of this judgment. Pending a parliamentary initiative, professionals and institutions concerned may already rely on the consequences of the judgment as regards a treatment they carried out on 1 October 2019. However, the administration will not require the application of the judgment pending the rejection of those legal provisions. Then I come to your last question. Taking into account medical professional secrecy, the identity of the patient will always remain hidden from the administration when carrying out checks on taxable persons. Consequently, the administration will not address the patient himself in this respect. One final element is that I plan to come up with a bill at the end of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u81	Minister, this is a short question, but it is not insignificant in the context of fair taxation or at least a better organisation of our taxation. You are undoubtedly aware of the phenomenon of company joint management companies, single-member companies, and even more so, in order to avoid taxes or to use them as a technique to pay less taxes. In the Netherlands they have been trying to limit this for some time and they know the concept of standard wage, which is at least a taxable basis. We therefore have to pay taxes at least on a wage, usually for this sector. I have two brief questions about that. What do you think of this piste, which you undoubtedly know? It is something that we do not yet see, but have you already had a survey carried out for Belgium on the slope of normal wages, for example for single-member companies? If so, what are the findings? If not, does this fit in with the study assignment for the reform and simplification of the personal income tax to which you have instructed the Supreme Court of Finance, but which has not yet been completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u82	Mr Bertels, at the end of 2017, my predecessor commissioned the Department of Taxation and Parcel of the Supreme Court of Finance to investigate the possible slopes that could be provided for any subsequent major tax reform. The central objective here is to make work more rewarding. Shortly after my arrival I reconfirmed the assignment to the Supreme Court in February 2019. I would also like to point out that, in the reform of corporation tax, the Michael Government provided for a fine of 5% or 10% if a company paid too little wages to the managers. However, this measure was retroactively abolished on the initiative of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u83	Minister, you can refer to the Chambers Committee, but you cannot refer to me. If that was the implied message, I'd have to counter it anyway. It's a piste the Supreme Court hopefully looks at in his studies. After all, it is also a sense in society that this is not happening correctly. We need to make sure that the feeling that it is happening correctly is strengthened. You know that we are in favour of the principle of 'a euro is a euro'. That could be a means to this end. I therefore hope that you will ask the Supreme Court that the slopes they are looking at include the slopes of more fair taxation. I hope that's what we all wish for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u84	Minister, hospitals are obliged to join a network to remain recognised. That network provides the opportunity to optimise and rationalise the operation. In practice, then, the problem arises that the additional costs of 21% VAT for non-care-related transactions have to be offset, which, of course, means a threshold for good cooperation. At present, a scheme in this respect is included in the 2012 healthcare circular for certain forms of cooperation, namely the association, grouping and merger or cooperation of type 1, but not for the hospital networks, which were not at all mentioned in 2012. Now this form of cooperation is possible; it is even an obligation. Mr Minister, do you think that a hospital network can also be seen as a type 1 partnership? If so, will the care circular be adjusted accordingly and when will that happen? Are all transactions in a hospital network exempt from VAT? Do you see any possibility of considering hospital networks as a VAT unit? If not, why not and on what criteria? Or is there the possibility to consider a hospital network as a cost sharing association?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u85	In connection with the hospital networks, consultations were held with the Minister for Social Affairs and Health's policy cell and the so-called care circular was reworked. The administration has recently provided me with a draft of the reworked circular and my policy cell is currently studying it. Taxable persons established in Belgium who, although legally independent, are financially, economically and organizationally closely linked, can be regarded as a VAT unit. Of course, the conditions must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Hospitals wishing to form a VAT unit will therefore have to prove that they are closely linked financially, economically and organizationally. There is nothing to prevent hospitals from becoming self-employed on a voluntary basis. As soon as the conditions laid down in Article 44 (2) (a) of the VAT Code are met, the services provided by independent groups of persons to their members are exempt from VAT. The conditions of application and restrictions of the exemption can be found in the Circular of 12 December 2016. You will understand that in an answer to an oral question I cannot go into every condition. It is important to note that the exemption applies only to the services directly needed for the exempt activity of the members and for the activity for which the members are not liable to tax. The exemption shall not apply to the supply of goods.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Do I understand correctly that the reform of the care circular will also include the hospital network as a form in Category 1? Is that the proposal, besides the association, the merger and the grouping?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u87	We're studying whether that's possible. It hasn't been decided yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u88	So it's one of the ideas that is being looked at in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u90	Madam President, Minister, in response to the global financial crisis a few years ago, the Basel framework was fundamentally revised. The latest series of revisions remedy some shortcomings in the current rules, thereby increasing the soundness and resilience of the banking sector. The members agreed to implement all elements of the reform package by 1 January 2022. We also discussed this with Febelfin last week. Some aspects, including the so-called output floor, will be phased in by 1 January 2027. The implementation process has also been ongoing for some time within the European Union. Changes will have to be made to the directive and to the regulation on capital requirements. As the way of implementation within the European Union has not yet been defined, both the European Commission and the Member States are confronted from different angles with attempts to provide for exceptions, mitigations and derogations. Minister, how does Belgium relate to the European Banking Authority's opinion of 5 August 2019 for full implementation of the final Basel III standards? Since then, what signals has Belgium given to the various European bodies about its position in relation to the implementation of these standards? What is Belgium's position over the limited increase in input floor? What is the position of Belgium vis-à-vis the so-called output floor, both on the importance of its implementation and on the level of consolidation to be applied? Will Belgium, in the coming months and years, work for the full and ambitious implementation of the Basel III final standards in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u91	Since the outbreak of the global financial crisis in 2008, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) has been developing and implementing a framework of robust standards to strengthen banks' capital and liquidity buffers. The standards of this package, which have been implemented in European legislation since 2010, have significantly strengthened the risk absorbing capacity of banks' capital buffers. They also introduced key macro-prudential capital buffers, liquidity standards and a leverage ratio. However, the calculation of the denominator of the risk-weighted capital ratio for banks, i.e. risk-weighted assets, remained unchanged for the time being. However, during the crisis, many questions arose about the transparency, comparability and complexity of the calculation methods for these risk-weighted assets and in particular the role of the internal models used by banks in this calculation. An adjustment of the calculation methods is therefore an essential part of the Basel III reforms. The latest package of reforms, sometimes referred to as Basel III.5 or Basel IV, was finalised by the Basel Committee in December 2017 and still needs to be transposed into European law. The package includes a minimum level, the so-called output floor, for capital requirements calculated on the basis of internal models of banks, which must be at least 72,5 % of the capital requirements determined by the Basel Committee, calculated on the basis of the more conservative standard approaches. I come to your first question. Belgium, in this case the National Bank as a prudential supervisor, has always committed itself as a member of the Basel Committee to implement fully and in accordance with the finalized Basel III package. The bank was therefore closely involved in drawing up and fully endorses the opinion of the European Banking Authority, which prepares the full implementation of the Basel package in the EU. A fully consistent and timely implementation of the Basel package is not only necessary from the point of view of financial stability. It is also in the interest of the European banking sector itself that Basel III should be implemented. This is necessary to restore the credibility of the calculation of capital buffers and build the confidence of consumers, investors and international financial markets in the robustness of the sector. I come to your second question. In various fora, the Belgian representatives have clearly expressed the Belgian position mentioned above, namely the full and consistent implementation of the Basel package. Thirdly, input floors impose minimum conditions for the parameters generated by internal models. This is one of the measures that ensures that internal models do not lead to too low capital requirements. They should therefore also be implemented for European banks. Fourthly, the output floor is the final part of the finalized Basel package. It is therefore essential that it be implemented as a whole. We advocate the use of the output floor at all levels of consolidation to make it impossible for large banking groups to maintain a disproportionate risk at local level compared to the local capital buffer, especially in the absence of a European deposit guarantee scheme. I come to your last two questions. The transitory cap, on top of the phased roll-out of the output floor, is explicitly included in the Basel package and ensures that banks that feel a significant input of the output floor have to charge only part of that impact temporarily. This would allow significantly impacted banks a little more time to take sufficient measures to cope with this impact, so that the interbank market is not unnecessarily disturbed. Although the transitory cap has no interest in Belgian banks, we believe that this is a good tool to convince countries with significantly impacted banks to fully implement the output floor as foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u92	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We all know that a number of years ago, the entire financial sector fell into very bad weather and that taxpayers had to pull a lot out of the box to save the banks and not let the system go bankrupt. We have learned lessons from this, but as this incident continues in the past, it is sometimes minimized or people start to feel comfortable again without too strict rules. So I think it is important that we continue to pay attention to what happened then and to ensure that these lessons are not forgotten. We must implement the necessary measures in the interests of the taxpayer, and therefore also in the interests of the banks themselves. I am pleased that you support the full implementation of Basel III.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u93	Minister, a few weeks ago I asked the Minister of Justice about what seems to be a new case of major tax fraud, the Dubai Papers, this time with the involvement of Belgian business lawyers in particular. The rule is never to mention a name. As in other large-scale cases, it is obvious that the role sometimes played by some lawyers is problematic. Since then, it appears that the French financial prosecutor's office has transmitted interesting documents to the Belgian Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. I imagine that the logical follow-up would be that these documents be transmitted to your administration, probably to ISI. Could you confirm to me that the ISI is in possession of these documents? Is an investigative team set up to deal with these cases exclusively or as a matter of priority? Are files opened on behalf of certain actors already set up? Finally, could you please indicate whether the Belgian State has taken civil action in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u94	Minister, this Dubai Papers file unfortunately looks like a new example of large-scale fraud involving well-known business lawyers in Brussels Square. It is therefore important that the Belgian State make every effort to ensure that responsibility is identified, money recovered and fair sanctions imposed. On 5 November last, before the same committee, Mr. Frank Philipsen, the director general of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SI), indicated that you had given your consent to the Belgian State becoming a civil party in this case. Given its importance, we must pay particular attention to the limitation periods. Due to the risk of exceeding the reasonable time limit, as already observed in other cases, this commitment should be honoured. Mr Minister, can you confirm to me that the Belgian State was a civil party in the Dubai Papers file? When was this decision made and acted upon? Who are the parties to this civil action? The fraudsters themselves or their accomplices as well? What are the initiatives taken by the ISI to avoid exceeding the time limits for prescription and reasonable processing? What are the measures taken by the ISI to ensure that - beyond the essential recovery of fraudulent sums - fraud mechanisms can be identified and those responsible prosecuted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u95	Mr Laaouej and Mr Gilkinet, my administration - in particular, the ISI - proposed that the Belgian State, in this case the SPF Finances, introduce a declaration of injured person in the criminal case and that a lawyer be appointed to defend the interests of the State. The ISI also proposed extending the mandate of the designated lawyer to the filing of a civil suit as soon as the case has been brought before the court or an investigating judge. For the time being, the lawyer's mandate includes only the filing of an injured person's statement, the file being at the information stage, not the investigation stage. I confirm that the ISI has recently entered into possession of the data transmitted by the National Financial Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, on the basis of article 29bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Several analysts are currently working on this data at the pre-survey stage. As for individual files, they are in the process of being established. As this review has recently begun, it is impossible to inform you of the number of Belgian taxpayers involved or the possible existence of prescribed capital. I stress that it is the federal prosecutor's office – and not the ISI – that assumes responsibility for criminal investigation and prosecution. The King's prosecutor will decide, on the basis of una via consultation, what facts and persons he intends to pursue. The other files will then be dealt with purely administratively by the tax administration. The ISI will deal with these cases with the appropriate priority and, if necessary, will distribute tax investigations nationally among the different directorates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u96	Minister, I thank you for these elements, which indicate that the investigation is under way, that the ISI is in its early stages, that the files are in the process of being established, and that an investigating judge has not yet been appointed from the justice side. The question is likely to rest a question at the appropriate time with the Minister of Justice. Of course, it is to be hoped that the tax administration will put in place the means to be able to move forward quickly in the examination of these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u97	Minister, I will be a little less positive than my colleague, Mr Laaouej. I see a certain chill that surprises me in the processing of the file. To declare "aggrieved person" is not to be a "civil party". Yet it was a clear commitment that had been made. It's a signal to be given. I do not think that the FPS Finance must wait for justice to move from information to investigation, with the appointment of an investigating judge, in order to assert the interests of the Belgian State. Beyond the administrative processing of the case, the prosecution of the taxpayers concerned, there is clearly in the file, if one can believe the very well documented articles on the subject, organized fraud, with lawyers who are accomplices to fraud, who must be prosecuted at some point. Through you, it is all the honest taxpayers who have been prejudiced in this case. It seems important to me, in order also to have an ability to look at the investigation, that you are, through the ISI, more proactive than you describe. Perhaps I have a bad understanding of what you have given, and that I am too pessimistic, but the commitment was made here to be a civil party. I note that this commitment has not been fulfilled at this stage, because declaring "aggrieved person" is not a "civil party". There is more than one shade between these two choices. I regret that it was the first one to be laid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u98	Madam President, Minister, since 2014, we have known the law on the Only Once principle. If data has ever been made available in an authentic source, the law provides that they may no longer be requested again. This in itself is a good system because it is user-friendly. There is also a hotline where certain cases can be reported to the government. The Administrative Simplification Service states that, despite these measures, there is still a lot of work to be done. That is why I have a number of specific questions for the FPS Finance. Will the law of 5 May 2014 be complied with? What is the state of play in this respect? How does the FOD handle notifications that are being made? Which workflow or system is followed? Finally, how is data related to both the FPS Finance and another administration handled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u99	Madam President, Mr Matheï, in the implementation of the Only Once legislation, an inventory of the forms used to collect data was carried out. For new paper and electronic forms, the opinion of the Administrative Simplification Office shall be sought prior to the entry into service. New applications always use the unique keys to enable re-use of the data. Most of the notifications were received by the Administrative Simplification Service. The DAV shall either send the notifications directly to the administrator-general concerned or to the Only Once coordination cell within the Chair's department. In the second case, the Only Once coordination cell shall also forward the notification to the general administration concerned. The reports are being examined. The action taken shall be communicated to the Administrative Simplification Office once again. If it is established that a data is requested more than once from persons, it shall be examined, as with a notification. The general administration concerned within the FPS Finance is given the responsibility to make the necessary adjustments in consultation with the other administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u100	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer, from which I understand that the reports are being properly followed up. However, I also hope that current practices will be considered proactively, that they will be framed and systematically addressed. The ultimate objective is to ensure that the communication of citizens to the public service is made in a very user-friendly and automated way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u101	Madam President, Mr Minister, Article 74(4) of the Act of 26 March 2018 on the strengthening of economic growth and social cohesion introduced a new specific system of partial exemption from the payment of occupational advance payments for shiftwork for the remuneration of workers who carry out, in teams, the work referred to in Article 20, § 2, Royal Decree No 1 of 29 December 1992 on measures to ensure the payment of value added tax. A letter dated 19 August 2019 from the Chairman of the FPS Finance Steering Committee, published on the website of the Vereniging van Vlaamse Steden en Gemeenten (VVSG), indicates that this measure would apply to both the private and public sectors. Is it therefore necessary to understand, for the purposes of this measure, that the words "enterprises in which the work is carried out", "enterprises in which the work is carried out" and "enterprises" must be interpreted as "employers in which the work is carried out", "employers in which the work is carried out" and "employers"? If not, knowing that the measure must be of a general nature which is not linked to a particular sector in order not to constitute prohibited State aid, which employers would be excluded from the benefit of this measure when all the conditions imposed by law are met? These conditions are: teamwork within the meaning of Article 275/5, § 5, paragraph 1, first indent of the Income Tax Code; the work referred to in Article 20, § 2, Royal Decree No 1 of 29 December 1992 on measures to ensure payment of value added tax; the payment or allocation to the workers concerned in the above-mentioned team of gross hourly wages at least equal to that referred to in Article 275/5, § 5 of the Income Tax Code. I guess it's clear to everyone! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u102	Fortunately, the answer is simpler! Mr Laaouej, as part of the measure exempting the payment of the professional allowance for teamwork in the real estate sector, no definition of the concept of enterprise is provided. Consequently, provided that all the conditions for benefiting from this exemption are met, any employer, as liable for the occupational allowance, may, in principle, claim the application of this aid measure, as it has been taken in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u103	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u104	Minister, you are aware that the last cadastral census dates back to 1975. The fact that there has been no more cadastral equalization since then and that, in many cases, the cadastral income is borne by the lessee trader has had a perverse effect on the businesses of several cities, in particular Verviers. A press article goes back on this issue and indicates that the city centre of Verviers is facing a number of difficulties. Indeed, like many urban centres in Belgium, this city has suffered in recent years from a difficult context marked by the massive closure of shops caused by the commercial development in the periphery, the economic crisis and the emergence of e-commerce. In this regard, the city is working hard on economic recovery and the attractiveness of its commercial apparatus. Among the avenues envisaged, it explores the possibility of a localised revision of cadastral revenues around the most difficult commercial hubs. In fact, in the CIR there is an article which states that: "Apart from general equalizations, an extraordinary revision of the cadastral income of built and unbuilt buildings or of one of these categories may be carried out in a commune or a cadastral division of communes, where there are significant fluctuations in the rental value of buildings justify it". We can objectively consider this to be the case in Verviers. Minister, do you think this article can apply to the hypercentre in Verviers? Could you indicate what steps should be taken in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u105	Mr Ben Achour, your question concerns the application of Article 488 of IARC 92. This provision was originally intended to revise the cadastral income of all buildings built or not built in a municipality or a cadastral division of commune. It therefore does not allow only the shops to be reviewed. In addition, it only allows for the updating of values taking account of market developments. Since current cadastral incomes are based on 1975 values, the application of the aforementioned Article can only lead to their increase, since even taking into account an unfavourable situation, the present values are always higher than those of 1975. The problem is well known and unfortunately occurs in a large number of cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u106	Minister, your answer seems to me to be difficult to dispute. This is, of course, regrettable because the municipalities have few tools to redeploy, stimulate and strengthen their commercial apparatus. I will pass this on to the municipal authorities and I will certainly return to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u107	Mr Minister, the OECD has been responsible for international negotiations dealing with the taxation of the digital economy and, more broadly, the taxation of multinational enterprises. The organisation is committed to relaunching negotiations in this area, asking itself key questions such as whether the negotiations should be limited to the taxation of the digital sector, particularly the famous GAFAMs, or whether they can go further. According to the negotiating mandate, "digital transformation affects the entire economy and (...) it would be difficult, if not impossible, to isolate the digital economy", which calls for an expansion of negotiations beyond the taxation of a handful of companies in a single sector of the economy. The OECD has expanded participation in a new forum, the OECD/G20 inclusive BEPS Framework, which now brings together 135 countries, including developing countries. This negotiation should be concluded and endorsed by the G20 at the end of 2020. The presence of developing countries in these negotiations, however, has a cost. All measures taken under the BEPS plan have retroactive effect. They must therefore be implemented by all members of the inclusive framework without their say in the negotiations. Minister, such a negotiation would be a good step forward in the fight against tax dumping. However, Belgium can play an important role in this negotiation since it is a member of the Steering Committee of the Inclusive Framework. Given Belgium's presence on the steering committee, we can imagine that the government has given the negotiators a clear mandate. Could you tell us what the Belgian negotiator's mandate is? Could you also take stock of the status of the case and tell us what has already been acquired and what is still under negotiation? Do you confirm the date of November 2020 to be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u108	Madam President, Minister, last Friday a new step was taken within the framework of the OECD's Inclusive Framework to address, among other things, the fiscal challenges of the digitisation of the economy. The participants agreed to continue the negotiations on new rules on the location where tax is to be paid and on which part of the profit is to be taxed on the basis of a uniform approach. This uniform approach was adopted last Friday, which is seen as a major step forward. However, there is a great deal of concern about the proposals launched by the United States regarding the so-called Safe Harbour Approach, as set out in a letter from the US Finance Minister to the OECD on 3 December. Minister, how do you estimate the progress of the negotiations? Can the timing be met? What is the timetable for the negotiations in the coming months? How do you estimate the American proposal? What impact will this have on the progress and success of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium, as a member of the All-Inclusive Framework Steering Committee, has been working constructively on the OECD's work on the digital economy since the beginning of the project and will continue to actively support it until it is completed. In view of the digital transformation affecting the economy as a whole, Belgium advocates a broad application of the rules that will be laid down, however, to multinational companies, saving smaller companies. As for the progress of the negotiations, the contours of new OECD principles are beginning to be clarified, but many guidelines still need to be clarified. Public consultations have also taken place in recent weeks on both pillars. As far as pillar I is concerned, the scope and criteria for allocating profits have yet to be refined. The same applies to mechanisms for the prevention and resolution of disputes that will have to be established to regulate the application of new rules and avoid situations of double taxation. As far as pillar II is concerned, the aim is to create a level playing field between countries. Various questions relating to the rate, the definition of the tax base and the scope of application are also discussed. The timetable set by the OECD and the G20 is for an agreement by the end of 2020. On 31 January last, the members of the Inclusive Framework indeed agreed to the principle of Unified Approach or a uniform approach as a basis for further negotiations. Several working groups will now develop all aspects of this approach on the basis of an adapted work programme. Despite the consensus on the approach, a relatively large number of points remain open for discussion. It is therefore difficult at present to assess whether the negotiations will lead to an approach acceptable to all members of the Inclusive Framework. The objective is to reach agreement on the points of the uniform approach needed to reach a political agreement at the next Inclusive Framework meeting in Berlin in early July 2020. Further technical development of the uniform approach will then take place before the end of 2020. As there are virtually no details of the US proposal so far, it is difficult to assess the impact of this proposal on the negotiations on the uniform approach. In any event, the US proposal will be analysed and discussed by the various working groups as an alternative, optional approach, "Safe Harbour" in parallel with the uniform approach, with a view to decision-making at the beginning of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u110	Minister, thank you for that answer. I stress the need for maximum ambition on this very important issue. I would remind you that we have tabled a text on the same subject which will shortly be discussed by the committee. On this occasion, we will be able to express our ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At least we'll be looking at the Americans with our eyes open. We will also give our full support to any initiative that can lead to progress in this matter of the OECD. We will support Mr Ben Achor's resolution in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u112	Madam President, Minister, the taxation of digital giants is one of the topics that made news at the World Economic Forum in Davos. On Tuesday 22 January, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, accompanied by the Commissioner for the Internal Market and Digital Affairs, met with President Trump in the hope of convincing him to negotiate an agreement on this point. Clearly, this interview did not lead to progress in the file. Discussions have been taking place in OECD for months. Donald Trump and Emmanuel Macron decided on Monday, January 21, to give time and extend the talks by one year. If the European Union hopes to reach a compromise through the OECD, it claims that it will return to its initial plan of unilateral taxation if it does not. It was in this context that Le Soir revealed, in January, the content of a study by the European Commission which indicated that the majority of European countries would have much to gain from the introduction of this contribution. Among the options studied, the one closest to what would be discussed at the moment at the OECD is an increase in tax revenues from 0,05 % to 0,25 % of GDP, which would amount to a range of €210 million to €1 billion. Minister, could you provide an update on the current talks at the OECD? What is Belgium's position within the European Council in this context? Do you not see a new proof of the need for Europe to be ambitious on this issue? Do your services have financial projections for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u113	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, the technical discussions are currently ongoing within the OECD's inclusive framework to address the tax challenges posed by the digitalisation of the economy. As a member of the steering committee for the inclusive framework, Belgium is working constructively on this work. As far as the progress of the negotiations is concerned, many technical points still need to be refined both as regards pillar 1 and pillar 2. In-depth studies are currently being carried out by expert groups, which also benefit from the insights provided by various public consultations conducted in recent months. At European level, discussions on the Commission proposal have been suspended. Within the framework of certain working groups of the European Council, exchanges of views between the Member States are organised on the development of the guidelines adopted at the OECD. As for the economic impact of the OECD project for our country, various analyses are under way both in Belgium and at the level of the OECD secretariat. However, it will be necessary to wait for a final text before we can precisely quantify this impact for Belgium, which therefore awaits the completion of the work of the OECD and/or the European Union before considering any changes to its domestic legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u114	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u115	Mr Gilkinet, the minister scheduled to leave at 5:00 p.m., proposes to answer your questions 55003037C and 55003038C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u116	Madam President, I would have preferred that the minister could answer all my questions, but that is life! Minister, you will remember that at the end of the previous legislature – but, as you are still in office, I don't know how I should qualify it – our Parliament adopted a bill to reduce the VAT rate from 21 % to 6 % for the purchase of a bicycle or electric bicycle and for the sterilization of cats, which is an ecological issue of importance in terms of respect for biodiversity, demanded by an association like Gaia. Such a reduction in VAT requires the agreement of the European authorities. It is therefore up to you, as a representative of the government, to plead its implementation with them. Minister, what contacts have you made with the European authorities on this matter? When? What did they say to you at this point? Finally, can we hope to see this reduction in VAT for the purchase of a bicycle or an electric bicycle or for the sterilization of cats to take place? If so, within what time frame? And we're not laughing, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u117	I am not laughing, Mr Gilkinet; I am smiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u118	Madam President, I don't think we should stop anyone from smiling. Mr Gilkinet, I will reply briefly. We have sought the opinion of the European Commission. His answer was not positive, but we are continuing the negotiations. However, discussions on the basis of the proposed new VAT reduction directives are still in their initial phase. It is difficult to foresee when the Commission proposal can be approved and whether the final compromise will allow a reduced VAT rate for electric bicycles. Such a Commission proposal can only be adopted unanimously by the votes of the Member States. From the initial discussions, it appears that the differences of opinion on the principles contained in the proposal are wide-ranging. My answer applies to both of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u119	Minister, I can only take note of your answers. You encourage proactivity in this regard. The issues related to the use and purchase of bicycles concern all the countries of Europe, as well as those relating to a policy aimed at the sterilization of cats, are important. I hope that we can get a European consensus on this, that you can get it, or the minister who may one day succeed you. Who knows! Who will live will see!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u120	Someone will succeed me at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-04-55-commissie-ic100x.u121	We hope so.
